"Bodily autonomy means you can do whatever you want with your body. This right is more important than the right to life of others." Pro-choice people will say this all the time. They often say that in our society, we always prioritize bodily autonomy over the right to life. They usually point to the fact that life-saving organ or blood donation is never mandatory. They say that this proves that we always prioritize autonomy over life.I've been thinking about this for a while, and I've been coming up with a list of situations where we prioritize life or health over bodily autonomy. Let me know what you think of these examples, and if you have any more to add.Suicide watch/psych wards. I have had friends try to kill themselves, get taken to the hospital, and then not allowed to leave until they are considered no longer at risk of suicide. Not only was their right bodily autonomy disregarded in stopping their suicide, but then they weren't even allowed to go where they wanted or do what they wanted because they might kill or hurt themselves. Their life was prioritized above their right to do what they want with their body.The draft. In times of need, the government can force you to go to war to save the lives of others. In this situation, your bodily autonomy is pretty much ignored because the state prioritizes the right to the lives of others above it.Mandatory vaccinations. When there is a public health need, laws can mandate that you get a certain kind of medicine to protect the lives and health of yourself and others. Your bodily autonomy is ignored because lives are at risk.Court-ordered blood transfusions. This has more to do with kids than adults. My grandfather was a judge. Sometimes little kids would be sick in the hospital and need blood transfusions, but their families were Jehovah's Witness and wouldn't consent to the transfusion. The hospital would then seek a court order to get the transfusion anyway. My grandfather always signed the orders. Now, I don't know if the kid wanted the transfusion or not, but even if he didn't, the hospital now had the legal authority to ignore his right to bodily autonomy to save his life.Anti-drug laws. Many, if not most, countries have laws against dangerous drugs like heroine. These laws ignore your right to do whatever you want with your body because, among other things, these drugs are bad for your health and can lead to death.Prescriptions. I can't take whatever medicine I want because it's my body and I have autonomy. I need a doctor's consent and a prescription so that I don't accidentally kill myself.Doctor assisted suicide laws. In most of the US, assisted suicide is illegal. You can't have a doctor prescribe you medicine because you want to exercise your own right to bodily autonomy. This is because the law has determined that your life is more important than your bodily autonomy. Even in states and countries with legal assisted suicide, there are a lot of regulations. Not just anyone can get medicine to exercise their bodily autonomy and end their life. You have to have a good reason, multiple doctors have to agree with you, in many cases you have to be terminally ill, etc.The point is that we don't always prioritize bodily autonomy over life.(Sorry that I keep making so many self posts on here. I'm a teacher, and it's the end of the summer. Come September I'll have less time on my hands.)Edit: formattingEdit 2: Here are a few other examples.Thalidomide. It's a drug that was originally used to treat morning sickness, but was banned for use by pregnant women when it was discovered that it caused birth defects.  So, if I get pregnant and have terrible morning sickness, I can't exercise my bodily autonomy and take the most effective medicine because it would hurt the health of another person (my child).Assault.  I think this one is a little too silly.  I am not allowed to exercise my bodily autonomy and do whatever I want with my own body if what I want to do is punch some old lady watching down the street.  It's the old "my right to swing my fist ends at the tip of your nose" rule.  Our society doesn't allow bodily autonomy to be an excuse for hurting other people.  You don't generally get to use your rights to hurt people.  I have the right to free speech, but that doesn't mean I get to verbally harass people.Infant care.  I don't know about this for sure, but I think that if you never held your infant, you could be charged for child abuse/neglect.  I'm imagining a scenario where you are the only caregiver of this infant, and you get never held or physically comforted your child.  You bottle fed her while she was in a crib or carrier, you changed her diapers, but you never held her or petted her or gave her any physical affection.  Babies can die from lack of physical affection, so parents of infants are legally required to use their body to protect the life of another.  They can't exercise their bodily autonomy by not holding the baby.Edit 3: Here are some good responses to the bodily autonomy argument:Life Training Institute's My Body, My Choice? How to Defeat Bodily Autonomy ClaimsMatt Walsh's I am afraid of this indisputable pro-choice argument (This is not an endorsement of Matt Walsh.  His tone is probably more detrimental to the pro-life movement than his arguments are helpful.  This particular post isn't as bad as some.  Take the argument, ignore the condescending tone.)Timothy Brahm's Autumn in the Sovereign ZoneStephen Wagner's De Facto GuardianAnd here are some of the pro-choice arguments that rely on bodily autonomy:Judith Jarvis Thomson's A Defense of Abortion/The Strongest Violinist (1971)Hannah Goff's Bodily Autonomy (probably the most cited in the past few years online. Searches for the term "bodily autonomy" spiked and remained higher around the time she originally posted this on tumblr.)
So much of what you said has some reasonable arguments against it. I am all for fighting the "bodily autonomy" argument. But if your line of argumentation involves the tactic of getting your opponent to bear witness to instances where they might appear hypocritical, you should be completely sure that your opponent agrees with the instances you lay out. In this case, your examples are not 100% agreed upon by everyone: not even close. Reddit's left-libertarian crowd especially will look at your argument and not be impressed.
You're totally right.  The reason I wrote this list was mostly because I've seen pro-choice people say many times that the fact that our society doesn't force organ donation is proof enough that we don't (and therefore shouldn't) value life above bodily autonomy.  I wanted to offer examples of the opposite.
His argument is valid. You will find hard to present your own arguments, since you can't seriously expect to have 100% agreement from the whole community to present them. I also disagree with your argument about the crowd political choices. Based on your own argument, your argument is invalid.
Of course his argument is valid. I don't dispute that. But I'm also not talking about argument validity, I'm talking about making an argument that the opposition will listen to. All I'm saying is that it's not convincing to people who oppose mandatory drafts, people who oppose mandatory vaccinations, people who oppose involuntary psychiatric commitment, people who oppose anti-drug laws, people who oppose doctor-assisted suicide laws, people who oppose prescription drug regulation, etc. While I do not hold any of these opinions, MANY people do. I never made an argument in my post. What are you referring to?
Yeah, I haven't made an argument that would hold much weight against a staunch libertarian.
I actually think your draft argument is the strongest one for a libertarian. You are seeing it as analogous to the violation of the mother's bodily autonomy but I actually think it's a bit stronger when used as analogous to the violation of the child's, as in both cases it's the smaller, weaker party (one citizen vs govt) being sacrificed for the ostensible good of the larger organism. When initially reading through your post, I actually thought it probably wouldn't play well with many liberals, since they'd say "Yes, exactly like the draft. It sucks but has to be done sometimes."
Many people hold pro life views (not opinions).
What is your tactic for engaging the "bodily autonomy" argument?
I am definitely against everything you first listed and an vehemently opposed to some of them, such as the draft and the drug war.
Even the rules against women taking Thalidomide?  Or the laws requiring parents to care for their infants? But yeah, if you're a hardcore libertarian, this argument isn't very convincing.  The reason I made it was to address the liberal/moderate group that uses bodily autonomy as an argument in favor of abortion, but not in these other cases.
With suicide watch its somewhat implicit that the person is not in a sound state of mind. Blood transfusions like you said are more about parents not being able to make bad decisions for their children. The issue with drugs is more about you cant physically possess them than it is about ingesting them. And again with assisted suicide its tough to determine if someone who wants to kill themselves is of sound mind, because wanting to kill yourself is generally an indication that you aren't. And vaccinations aren't mandatory, you just can't do certain things or go certain places without having had them, but you do have a choice.
Thanks for the feedback.  The suicide thing is what really gets me.  Sure, you can say that people who want to commit suicide are generally mentally ill, but it still seems to me to be a violation of bodily autonomy to tell people they can't do what they want with their body because wanting it makes them crazy.   Also, about the drug thing, saying "you can't physically possess them" but you can totally ingest them (how would you do that without possessing them?) seems like semantics. I have some other examples I forgot/chose not to include, if you'd like to weigh in on them. Thalidomide. It's a drug that was originally used to treat morning sickness, but was banned for use by pregnant women when it was discovered that it caused birth defects.  So, if I get pregnant and have terrible morning sickness, I can't exercise my bodily autonomy and take the most effective medicine because it would hurt the health of another person (my child). Assault.  I think this one is a little too silly.  I am not allowed to exercise my bodily autonomy and do whatever I want with my own body if what I want to do is punch some old lady watching down the street.  It's the old "my right to swing my fist ends at the tip of your nose" rule.  Our society doesn't allow bodily autonomy to be an excuse for hurting other people.  You don't generally get to use your rights to hurt people.  I have the right to free speech, but that doesn't mean I get to verbally harass people. Infant care.  I don't know about this for sure, but I think that if you never held your infant, you could be charged for child abuse/neglect.  I'm imagining a scenario where you are the only caregiver of this infant, and you get never held or physically comforted your child.  You bottle fed her while she was in a crib or carrier, you changed her diapers, but you never held her or petted her or gave her any physical affection.  Babies can die from lack of physical affection, so parents of infants are legally required to use their body to protect the life of another.  They can't exercise their bodily autonomy by not holding the baby. Thoughts? Edit: I'm going to add this to the original post.
I've found that the thalidomide example is a good way to figure out if the pro-choicer you're discussing abortion with is a moral idiot or not. I've been able to save a lot of time by posing that question to them and allow them to expose their moral idiocy by saying the woman should be allowed to take thalidomide, even now and even if she plans to birth the disfigured child. It's sad that people lack such a conscience but it has saved me lots of frustration. It's basically trying to reason with a sociopath at that point. There's no use in continuing the discussion if they cannot understand how something so clearly wrong is wrong and should not be permissible.
Punching someone in the face is not an exercise in bodily autonomy. In the case of infant care, I do believe you are allowed to drop the kids off at a police department of you don't want to take care of it. Otherwise, of you keep the child, there is an implicit agreement that you will take care it. You could make a case about knowingly hurting a fetus that you intend to give birth to, that is a bit of a messier issue. Because you are effectively hurting a "person", I would argue that it's similar to punching someone, but that is certainly up for debate.
The abandoning kids at hospitals and police stations is weird situation.  Most of the places with laws allowing that have a 30 day limit (you can't abandon your teenager there and not get charged with child abandonment).  Plus, there are lots of places with no system in place for parents who abandon their infants. So, if punching someone in the face is not an exercise of bodily autonomy, how can aborting someone be an exercise of bodily autonomy?  Is it because the baby is dependent on your body to survive?
Precisely. This is the thrust of the Thompson violinist analogy. Your assault example, to a pro-choicer, would be more accurate if the other person slugged you first--in which case, the law allows you to hit back to protect yourself.
One of the many problems with the violinist analogy is that abortion isn't just unplugging the baby.  It's more analogous to shooting the violinist in the face.  Abortion actively kills, it doesn't just disconnect. edit: removed irrelevant sentence.
Well, yes and no. In her analogy, you wake up plugged in. Choosing not to be hooked up would be passive but at that point, it is an active decision that would result in the violinists death. It's not your fault the baby can't survive outside the womb. To me, the bigger problems are that in her analogy, you just wake up, having done nothing to contribute to the violinist being in that position and, secondly, the simple fact that it substitutes a stranger for one's child.
It's remarkable people think this helps their case to kill defenseless human beings at their most vulnerable stage.
Yeah, those are big problems.  I think that a more accurate analogy would be something like this: You're gambling and you know that if you loose, you may end up in this situation.  You keep playing, and you loose.  Then, the next morning, you wake up with tubes attaching you to your daughter (as you knew was a possibility when you were gambling).  The tubes attaching you and your daughter are keeping her alive, but after 9 months she'll be all better and you can detach safely.  In the mean time, you can still move around and go through life more or less like normal (bringing your daughter with you), although you'll probably feel sick and have some nausea for the first couple months, and then you'll feel pretty uncomfortable, especially in the last few months (and there may be other annoying or painful side effects, too). Plus, after nine months, the detachment process is very painful. If you wish to detach from your daughter, she will die.  However, it isn't that simple.  The tubes are attached in such a way that you can't just unplug from her, you have to kill her first, then you can unplug.  So, if you want to be out of the situation without waiting 9 months, you have to pay a doctor to either poison or tear apart your daughter, and then you can detach. This is a much less elegant hypothetical than the original.
Well at that point, I'm not sure you can call it an analogy anymore!
Yeah, there is really nothing in the world that is truly analogous to pregnancy.  It's a very particular thing.
This is gold and should have all the up-votes.
Indeed.
I have heard of a handful of cases where hospitals went to court to compel a woman to have a c-section.  This is closer to the issue at hand, I think.  And even several steps below that, there are a lot of women out there who are unable to have VBACs because their doctor "won't allow" it--the largest OB/GYN practice in my city of ~2M people does not allow VBACs.
That's really interesting.  I've heard women complain about how hard it is to find doctors to do VBACs, but it can be so hard to do a lot of c-sections.  My mom had all five of us via c-section and the last one took a huge toll. I only just read this story a few minutes ago. It seems pretty relevant to your example.
She wasn't convicted of murder, From: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15572482 (Not to say it still isn't contradictory but I figured I'd add the info).
Thanks for the information! Child endangerment seems more appropriate to me. She didn't actively kill the baby, she risked the baby dying by acting so selfishly and recklessly. In both scenarios, though, it proved to be illegal for her to exercise her bodily autonomy when it would endanger the life of her child.
SO MUCH UPVOTE!
Attitudes are really changing for the worse towards suicide. Alot of people are in favour of sanctioned suicide and euthanasia.
How can you use any of these to debate with someone who believe in irrevocable bodily autonomy, to the point that suicide and incest are apparently ok as long as there is consent?
Point out to them that in the case of abortion, the exercise of bodily autonomy also terminates another life. So then posit if bodily autonomy is protected when a murder takes place.
I've said all this before. He said that it's not a person until it's born, and it's a parasite on the mother. He says he's against abortion after the first trimester, but argues vehemently in its favor (without distinction for when it happens).
If someone honestly believes that a baby is not a person until it is out of the birth canal, then there's really nothing you can debate anymore. According to such logic, it is legal to kill the child as long as it is not out of the birth canal. That somehow, there is a discrete jump in the baby's personhood based on when the mother delivers him/her. Bizarre indeed
No. Bodily Integrity means that I get to choose what happens to my body. Being put in prison is not a violation of it because nothing is happening to my body. Preventing me from going certain places is not a violation of my phsyical body. Not letting you commit suicide is a violation, putting you in a ward is not. The draft is not a violation of your bodily integrity. The draft doesn't force you into the war, you can refuse to serve and do other work and the U.S hasn't had a draft since the 70s. You don't have to get a vaccine, nobody is being forced to give their children vaccines. If you don't want to vaccinate that's your, very stupid choice. The vast majority of people do it willingly. Your body is not being violated. This is one fair enough but it's only for children, their bodily rights are less clear cut because they aren't their own responsibility. The state is removing the responsibility from their legal guardian/parent and moving to the state. You could hence argue their bodies aren't being violated because the state is controlling their rights instead of their parents but for the sake of this post I won't. In the UK, the actual use of drugs is not prohibited, it's the possession, selling and manufacturing that is illegal. However in the US the use is illegal. So these two are a violation. A lot of people want this changed, and assisted suicide will probably be legal within 100 years. Right now as it stands it is a violation.
Not bodily autonomy, but I've heard the argument that we afford the dead bodily integrity (abuse of a corpse is a crime), but not women. I pointed out that we can violate bodily integrity for forensic purposes.  Not just to prove how someone died, but also to look for drugs, etc.
I agree with most of your examples. Personally, I think that our laws should be changed so that organ donation is mandatory (that is, you lose your right to bodily autonomy once you're dead). An an effort to strengthen your position, I would point out a few weak points here and there. The assault example fails, I think, because it violates someone else's bodily autonomy (but of course, so does abortion). For that matter, I feel that the draft is an immoral institution, and your blood transfusion example is actually focused around the fact that the victim is a child, and thus unable to give informed consent (for example, adult Jehovahs Witnesses are allowed to refuse blood transfusions, even if this puts their lives in grave danger. This could be argued as a clear example of the right to bodily autonomy overruling the right to life.) Finally, I personally feel like doctor-assisted suicide isn't immoral, and should be legal (although suicide watch and psych wards are still necessary).  The 'right to life', in my opinion, specifically leaves you in charge of your own life.
Just adding my 2c. I think there's a hierarchy of 'natural' rights and responsibilities, along the lines of Right to life. Right to freedom. Right to own property and to do as one pleases with such property. These rights should be absolute, so long as they don't impinge upon others' basic rights or the functioning of civilised society. So the responsibilities, in order of priority, should be: Not to kill. Not to take other people's freedom away or force them into doing or not doing things, unless they're harming your rights by doing so. Not to steal And also: To protect other people's lives where reasonably possible. To protect other people's freedom. To protect other people's property. A higher priority right must trump a lower priority one. That is what prevents people from having 'the freedom to kill'. Someone's right to be protected from having their life taken trumps someone's else's freedom. Hence the imprisonment of people who are dangers to other's lives. The reason for this hierarchy is that life is a necessary (a priori) condition for all other rights, and therefore must exist before them. There's no point in having freedom if your life is not protected. I know this is a long and clunky way of getting across my point. So... TL;DR There is a hierarchy of rights and responsibilities, they are not all equal. The right to life and responsibility not to kill trump all other rights, including freedom, where necessary. This is because life is a necessary precondition for all other rights so must be put above.
For the record, I'm pro-choice, and I'm against many things you listed such as banning drugs and doctor-assisted suicide.
I think arguments like this is why many have lost respect for prolifers. Almost all of these examples are meant to help you! Just like an abortion is meant to help a woman who has to overcome a rape, or a potential fetus who would have to survive on a horrible, poverty-stricken environment. Suicide wards are allowed because they help people to overcome their problems! Drugs are banned because if they were not we would have a situation just like the opium wars. People would become addicted, overdosing would be more common, and society would not be as effective! All of these things are meant to help people in the long run, not hurt them!
The are indeed cases where life is prioritized above bodily autonomy but not all of those examples are good examples, and whilst they may happen currently that does not make them good.
Yeah, some are better examples than others.  And of course "happens" doesn't equal "should happen."  However, in the favorite tumblr post on the subject, it says that the fact that we don't force organ donation is proof enough that we value autonomy above life.  I wanted to offer examples of times when we do the opposite.
Mods should sticky this.
Done! Love it.
I feel so honored! :)
Unfortunately, almost none of these arguments are on moral ground but rather on governmental norms. The best arguments to show that bodily autonomy is not 100% accepted by all people are those found in the linked  "My Body, My Choice? How to Defeat Bodily Autonomy Claims" above. However, even those only raise issues when the mother walks a grey line between wanting to raise a perfectly healthy child with all her might vs not wanting kids at all. Obviously, kinda maiming someone is worse than not hurting them, but it is also worse than painlessly killing them. For the most part, the bodily autonomy argument still stands strong because it coincides with most people's beliefs. Remember that there is no true right wrong good or evil, only preferences, and it seems that most people prefer bodily autonomy in most cases where the question is raised. As pro-lifers, this is one of the cases where we argue for an exception.
These arguments aren't on moral grounds because I'm responding to an argument that isn't based on moral grounds.  The common argument pretty much just states that since we have laws that value autonomy over life, its clear that we hold that as true as a society. I don't think it's obvious that hurting is worse than killing.  Every society I've ever heard of punishes killing more than maiming or other hurting (or at least wouldn't punish hurting more than killing).  It seems that people generally agree that maiming is not worse than murder, and many would also agree that murder is worse. I'm not sure why you're stating this as fact.  Many people (such as myself) believe there is right and wrong.
When I say maiming, I mean hurting someone more than temporarily. Let's examine some examples. Let me know if you agree of disagree with the traits I atribute to them. I accidentally step on your foot: accident, unfortunate, not-wrong. I intentionally step on your foot: temporary pain, no lasting physical consequences, hurts, wrong. I kill you because you are evil and intentionally hurt others, for instance you are my owner and I am a slave: right, no malice required, brief suffering. I kill you because, despite being a good person, you are causing great harm, for instance teaching people about some wacky awesome religion that you genuinely believe is the truth religion and has people to eat nuclear waste: unfortunate, not-wrong, brief suffering initiated, great suffering avoided. I intentionally cut off your foot and burn it in an incinerator: lasting state of suffering until death, wronger than killing an evil person, wronger than killing a good hearted idiot who is causing harm and cannot be reasoned with, includes malice.
So it's ok to kill people you disagree with? What have we become?
Lol. What a riviting comment from an obvious troll.
I disagree with you.  I don't generally make it a practice to try to figure out exactly how morally culpable any individual is for any particular action (since I can never know their thoughts or the state of their mental health), but I don't agree with you that killing these people is less morally wrong than cutting off someone's foot. Regardless, the issue at hand is whether the right to life outweighs a right to bodily autonomy.  Are you saying that while a right to bodily autonomy might outweigh a right to life, it does not outweigh a right not to be harmed/disfigured/maimed? Edit: typo
The reason that I believe maiming someone is a greater evil than killing is because it requires malice and includes intent to create sustained suffering. As wrong as killing an innocent fetus is, doing it as painlessly as possible still shows some concern for the fetus, whereas maiming someone is more like torture in that the person desires another being to suffer. Does this part make sense?
I can see that, but the fact would remain that both are gravely immoral.  Are you specifically responding to the thalidomide argument?
I disagree. Gravely immoral is pretty subjective. It is possible to be a very kind hearted person and kill another animal to prevent its suffering. Think of a horse that has been injured. Or, as I personally experienced, a deer that has been hit by a truck and split in two but still alive. It is not possible to be kind hearted and intentionally maim an animal. So it is possible to kill with kindness. If a person is killing their fetus to prevent it from a life of suffering then it is possible that they are acting with good intentions. However, good intentions are not the same as good results.
Remember, we are not talking about animals, we're talking about people.  Also, it is possible to maim with kindness, as anyone who has had gangrenous limbs removed would tell you. So once again, is your point that while the right to bodily autonomy may trump the right to life, the right to not be maimed would trump the right to bodily autonomy?  And are you addressing the thalidomide argument in particular?
Actually, we are talking about animals. I don't follow any speciesist arguments so horses or humans, all the same to me. Also, removing a persons gangrenous limb is not maiming them with kindness. The removal is not the maiming, the gangreen is. I am not addressing the tahlidomide argument. I will assume it is some supposedly painless way of killing fetuses. My main point is that I needed help defending the pro-life stance but want to make sure my arguments are valid and some of the ones presented were not. More specifically, in my more recent comments, my point is that people who get and/or advocate for abortions are not evil. They most likely believe that sometimes an abortion is the best thing for all parties involved, including the child.
The thalidomide argument is listed above, about halfway through my original post (second edit).  I assumed you'd read the whole post since you'd referenced a link at the bottom of it. I agree with you! I think the vast majority of pro-choice people/people who get abortions are trying to do what they think is right.  I don't think they're evil people at all!  (There may be some exceptions, but I bet they're very few and very far between.)  I think that pro-choice people are incorrect, misinformed, or mistaken.  I do not think they're evil.  They may think they are doing what is best, but they are wrong. Edit: "We" are not talking about animals.  You may be, but I am not.

Thank you for this
The infant care one can go even further. Refusing to feed your baby is neglect even if your breast milk is the only available food.
Is there a way that would be the case in the US?  WIC covers formula for families in need, right?  Do situations arise in the US where mothers can't get formula and must breastfeed?
I'm talking about a cabin-in-the-woods type scenario where there are physical barriers, not economic ones, in the way of obtaining formula.
Good movie.
I've done quite a lot of research into the effects of abortion laws, since the argument that abortion laws/restrictions do nothing to change the incidence of abortion is one of the most popular pro-choice arguments and it tends to be very influential even among some pro-lifers. The "personally opposed, but" crowd tend to use it as vindication of their worldview. Guttmcacher/WHO have published many studies in the Lancet journal finding that abortion rates are the same in countries where it's legal vs. illegal, so pro-choice groups and the media use this to assert that "science" has proven that abortion restrictions have no effect. Therefore, even some pro-lifers are led to believe that restrictions are at best pointless and at worst do more harm than good.Now personally I think a lot of the illegal abortion estimates that Guttmacher/WHO put forward are too high to the point of implausibility. I do believe there are high numbers of illegal abortions in many developing countries, but AGI estimates that literally every region where abortion is largely illegal aborts at a rate similar to or higher than Russia, a country with one of the highest documented abortion rates in the world and where a significant portion of women still use abortion as a form of birth control.I recently made a post here citing some studies from developing countries showing changes in fertility as a result of abortion legalization, and I thought I'd add to those studies by posting a list of the best studies I've found showing that restrictive laws do have an effect on abortion numbers (I'll just summarize the abstract next to the link) for anyone who's interested to see research on this topic. Note that I've deliberately left out studies done by pro-life organizations.Effects of Abortion Legalizationhttp://ajph.aphapublications.org/doi/abs/10.2105/AJPH.89.2.199 -- States that legalized abortion before Roe experienced fertility declines as a resulthttp://econpapers.repec.org/paper/harwpaper/9910.htm -- Found that women who became pregnant before Roe were far less likely to abort a pregnancy compared to women who became pregnant after Roehttps://www.guttmacher.org/journals/psrh/2009/03/abortion-or-pill-access-associated-lower-birthrates-among-minors -- Abortion legalization was more instrumental in lowering teenage birth rates in the 60s/70s than increased contraception accesshttps://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11990636 --Decrease in infants relinquished for adoption in states that legalized abortion pre-Roehttp://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ecin.12017/full -- Teenage childbearing decreased as a result of pre and post Roe legalized abortionhttps://economics.stanford.edu/sites/default/files/lahey2_april_6.pdf -- Restrictive abortion laws enacted in the 19th century were estimated to have decreased abortions and increased birthshttp://community.middlebury.edu/~cmyers/Power_JPE.pdf -- Found that access to abortion after Roe was estimated to have caused a 34% reduction in first birth, 19% reduction in first marriage and 63% reduction in shotgun marriages in the 1970s. According to this study, access to contraception had little effect on these trends and it was mostly access to abortion that drove family formation changes.https://ideas.repec.org/p/fda/fdaeee/eee2018-08.html -- The 1985 legalization of abortion in Spain resulted in an immediate decrease in births to women aged 21 and younger, and this decrease was more pronounced in areas with more abortion facilities.Effects of Restricted Public Funding for Abortionhttp://ajph.aphapublications.org/doi/abs/10.2105/AJPH.71.1.77 --Found that restrictions in public funding decreased abortions, no evidence that they increased illegal abortionshttps://link.springer.com/article/10.1023/A:1020078406216 -- When public funding for abortion ran out of money in North Carolina, it decreased abortions and increased birthshttps://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19069064 -- Found that public funding and proximity to a clinic influences abortion decisionshttps://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8135922 -- Finds that Michigan's public funding of abortion restriction increased birthsWaiting Period/Counseling Effectshttp://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/article-abstract/418044 -- Mississippi's two visit waiting period law decreased resident abortion rateshttp://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1083318896700074 -- Counseling before abortion in Singapore decreased the abortion ratehttp://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1049386716300603 -- Utah's 72 hour waiting period resulted in fewer counseled women obtaining abortionsEffects of less General Accesshttps://www.guttmacher.org/journals/psrh/1997/03/effects-economic-conditions-and-access-reproductive-health-services-state -- Less access to abortion estimated to account for a portion of the decline in the rate from 1988-92http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1465-7287.1996.tb00616.x/abstract -- Finds that regions with less access to abortion in Texas had lower abortion and pregnancy rateshttps://baylor-ir.tdl.org/baylor-ir/handle/2104/9884 -- HB2 law in Texas resulted in an increase in births and decrease in abortionshttp://www.jstor.org/stable/2134397?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents -- More travel distance to clinic lessens chance of abortionhttps://www.dartmouth.edu/~dstaiger/Papers/2004/LevineStaiger%20JLE%202004.pdf -- Abortion and pregnancy rates decreased after modest restrictions were enacted in Eastern Europe in the 80s and 90shttp://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0046958017700944 -- Another study on HB2 showing lower abortion rateshttp://www.nber.org/papers/w23366 -- Yet another HB2 analysisNote that many of these studies find effects of abortion laws on fertility (lower when abortion legalized and higher when abortion is restricted) which means that it can't be argued that unreported illegal abortion can make up the difference in abortion rates. If abortion restrictions don't change the rate of abortion, then abortion laws shouldn't have any measurable effect on fertility. I think there are enough studies here to pretty much refute the notion that abortion laws don't work. Ironically some of these studies were done by Guttmacher, which is the most common source for that claim.Edit: Thank you to whoever gilded me!
How do you respond to the article going around Reddit that claims defunding Planned Parenthood in Texas increased the teen abortion rate?
Ok, I read through the parts of the study (link here, provided by HuffPo) claiming the increase in teen abortion. First off, the headline of the article is pretty misleading since a 3% increase isn't really a "surge". Second, the overall abortion rate in Texas decreased during the 2011-2013 period, so saying that defunding PP increases abortions is misleading since abortion overall did not increase in Texas (the article even notes that Texas abortion rates decreased from 2014-16). In the study, I noticed that in Figure 7, the authors claim that teen abortion rates in TX counties with at least one public family planning clinic increased from 2012-13, but then decreased in 2014. So this doesn't appear to be some kind of sustained increase in the teen abortion rate. Even if defunding PP caused a small increase in abortion rates, that trend only lasted about a year. Figure 8 compares teen abortion rates in Texas to a "Synthetic Texas" which the authors use teen abortion trends in similar states and compare these to Texas teen abortion rates, and find that Texas teen abortion rates increased compared to what was expected. I'm not a statistics expert so I can't guess if that method is correct or not. But again, going by Figure 7, it appears the increase in teen abortion rates reversed in 2014. So this likely isn't a long term increase. Also, just FYI, I used data from the CDC and population data from Census to compare teen abortion rates in Texas from 2011-2013. I found that the teen abortion rate in 2011 was 8.3 and in 2013 was 7.6, which is an 8% decrease. I don't know why exactly the authors found a different result. They say they used the CDC reports and SEER population data. Maybe SEER data is different from Census data or they used different data.
the increase is a correction of a general downwards trend in response to the PP defunding. The reason it didn't increase any further is because after the increase due to short term effects (PP defunding), the long long term trend takes over again, which was a declining one in the first place. It could be argued that if the defunding of PP didn't happen, the long term trend (a declining rate) would have happened instead of the increase, because the status quo was maintained.
Even if that's true though this study isn't any kind of slam dunk against pro-lifers that pro-choicers are portraying it as. From what I can tell by Figure 7 it appears the teen abortion rate from 2013-14 fell faster than it did in previous years. Defunding PP may not have contributed to that, or it may have. But either way, pro-life efforts against PP don't cause a sustained increase in the teen abortion rate or an increase at all in the overall abortion rate. But I think this study is pretty weak for only looking at the teen abortion rate. Teens make up a small minority of all TX abortions. If you want to get a more complete picture of the effects of defunding PP, the study should have included women ages 20-29 since they make up a larger chunk of both PP patients and they make up a much bigger percentage TX abortions (58% for women in their twenties and 11% for teens). And both the CDC and the Texas health department break down the number of abortions that occur among this age group so the author could have included this if she wanted to, but my guess is she didn't because the abortion rates for this group didn't increase.
Very interesting and useful. Thank you for posting.
Excellent work!
These all seem like no brainers except for the Waiting Period/Counseling Effects. I just don't get how a 72 hour waiting period convinces a woman not to get one. Surely you think about having one before you go in. Unless its a result of the counselling, not the wait.
You don't think some women make rash decisions out of fear?
No I do. It still surprises/saddens me. I would hope that if someone does get an abortion they would really think about it before they did it. Its a life changing decision.
For some. Unfortunately, we still deal with undue societal, spousal, and other pressures to abort. Be it a claim that women will be "better off" or that they are incapable of raising a kid, often there's little real support.
The waiting periods tend to be coupled with informational material to read in the meantime.
Waiting periods make it more expensive , especially if women have to take time of work arrange childcare etc http://www.marieclaire.com/politics/a21141/abortion-waiting-periods/
Another related thing: do you know something about the Levitt thesis on the crime-abortion link? The best I found was a thorought answer from a paper of John Lott, Jr.
Yes I've heard of it, I responded to that thesis in this thread. One interesting thing to note that I mentioned in that comment is in order for the abortion-crime link to be true, abortion laws would have to be pretty darn effective at reducing abortions. However the abortion-crime link is pretty controversial and other economists have found evidence contradicting it.

Is he “pro-life” in the pandering and nominal way our Republicans are? Or does his background show he actually cares about the unborn?
He's less pro-life than most Republicans. He is basically someone who personally thinks it's wrong but prefers not to talk about it because a lot of his base is rabidly pro-abortion. AMLO would much prefer to punt on the social issues by having referendums since he's uncomfortable legalizing abortion, passing gay marriage, etc, but not brave or interested enough to oppose them in any meaningful way. So he's worse than most Republicans but better than most Democrats. I would hesitate to call him pro-life. Nothing in his background seems to suggest it. That's my two-cents as an estadounidense who's been following the Mexican election for a while.
He is prolife in the way democrats are not.
That still doesn’t narrow it down to any of the varying levels of commitment to the cause. Democrats obviously don’t care a single bit. That doesn’t mean all or even most Republicans care beyond placating and pandering to voters during campaign cycles.
Not for long, at the rate they've been assassinating politicians lately.

Legal doesn't mean moral, illegal doesn't mean immoral. That unless you believe the state is a god.
Liberalism in a nutshell Edit: Lol downvoted by some triggered lib for speaking facts
Socialism or communism I could understand, but not all liberals want big and intrusive government. Edit, to clarify, socialists or communists wanting big and intrusive government.
That's what they say, but their actions speak much louder than their words
Not all conservatives want big government, yet the Republican party keeps going that way too.
I disagree with that assessment.
If conservatives truly wanted smaller government, they would have voted for someone like Rand Paul. Trump is doing some alright things, but he's far from what small government would ever be considered. Both sides seem to be going for bigger and bigger government because they want more power to undo or prevent the other side from doing things.
A lot of them did. I think it's debatable whether Trump is really a Republican, but that's a whole different conversation. The Republican platform is built on core conservative principles which emphasize minimal government.
Far from enough needed for him to even have a chance. He's what the people voted for as a republican. Him being one or not, he was selected as the republican choice. I agree, but times seem to be changing for the worse unfortunately. Honestly, I hope I'm wrong, I really do.
You seem to have lost track of the fact that he said that not all Republicans want big government, so pointing out that Rand Paul got more than 0 votes is not a rebuttal. He didn't say every Republican wants big government, just the majority that voted against the small government candidates. To look at hypothetical "platforms" instead of bills proposed and passed and government actions taken would be to look extraordinarily gullible.
The Republican party does not want big government. My arguments stand
I saw this just yesterday and although everyone else was arguing over immigration and whatnot, the first thing I immediately thought of was abortion. The number of people who try to use this argument to defend killing children is simply ridiculous.
If those dumb asses don’t want a child then they should either not have sex or just remove their ovaries Cause clearly they aren’t responsible enough to have them.
Or BOTH responsible adults should use protection if they have sex.   Last I heard it takes TWO people for a woman to become pregnant.
I’m aware, I agree But I’m saying if the woman who’s “choice” it is to not have children she should just remove her ovaries instead of basically sending a baby through a blender

Rule #1. Please cite your sources.
en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Argument_from_authority


I love seeing this, but then I cringe a little because I know that pro-choicers will start foaming at the mouth and saying "so you think its fine that they are separating families!?!?!?!?!?" No, we don't think its fine. We just find it horribly hypocritical that pro-lifers can't care about unborn children unless we adopt them all, but we can't apply that same logic ANYWHERE else. And for the record, I do want to adopt all the babies.
Do it! Imagine that IRS check if you had 15k kids. LOL
I have neither the space nor the resources! =[ But luckily I will still be pretty young when my kids are grown, and I will 100% be adopting then!

Uh....most pro-choicers think abortion is fine. And literally all of them think it's fine enough to be legal.
Which minority group in the United States faces the most discrimination and hardships? This is an open-ended question for you to answer; I’m not looking for anything specific here. Imagine 60 million members of that minority group have been legally killed in the United States since 1973 and you solidly believe that the government shouldn’t do anything to stop it, yet you still consistently call for government action against other human rights violations as long as the human rights violations occur against people who aren’t part of that minority group. I think it’d be pretty fair to say that you don’t care about that minority group specifically—or, if you do, you certainly don’t value their lives nearly as much as those of other human beings.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure you can't care about unborn children when you kill them.
For real tho, what kind of dumbass statement is that?
It's clearly a typo.
It is so refreshing to speak to people who follow logic instead of straw mans like this lol. The other day I spoke to a girl who said there should be more focus on animal rights. It's funny because I'm vegan - so I gave her an analogy. If there were an endangered species of whales, would we protect only the adult whales, or also the baby whales and the whales who haven't been born yet? She immediately saw the point I was making and agreed that abortion was wrong (but of course it was a longer conversation for her to get there).  Coming from someone who does pro life activism as a job, it was so so refreshing to know there are young people who can use logic.  #thereishope
But the whales in your analogy are endangered. Humans are severely over populated, if we were any other animal there would be a hunting season.
The earth isn't over populated. Cities maybe, but the entire population of the world could fit into Rhode Island shoulder to shoulder.
Not physically over populated as in there is not more room for people to stand, over populated in that we have more people than we can support on this planet without doing serious long term harm to the systems we depend on, like we are currently doing. Mostly I'm just baffled that you would setup a straw man argument about endangered whales and try to use that as an analogy to humans. Humans are very far from endangered so the analogy just doesn't work.
Also not true. We can sustain many more people. The problem is distribution.
Distribution is one of the problems, production is also being done in a damaging unsustainable manner, but that's not really what we are talking about is it? You made the argument that because we protect the young of endangered whales then we should protect unborn humans. Human's, even if they are not over populated, are extremely abundant and in no immediate danger of going extinct. The argument you made, in a post condemning people for using straw man arguments, uses a weak straw man argument.
I didn't make the whale a analogy.
Alice is upset because Bob's son has been kidnapped. Carl says to Alice, "oh, so you care about Bob's son?  Why don't you adopt him?" Does Carl make sense?
I'm against immigrant separation, just to clarify. The meme I posted was parodying the fact that some(not all) pro-choicers tend to assume all pro-lifers only care about babies in the womb, and demand that they adopt children if they care so much. https://pbs.twimg.com/media/DgK3ZGCXkAEOJFd.jpg Apologies if the post rubbed you/other people the wrong way.
*seperation Normally I wouldn't point it out, but it's the same typo Trump made signing the executive order against it. The US has more families seeking to adopt newborns (but unwilling to foster older children) than there are newborns, is my understanding.  (Personally, I discuss the option of adoption with all of my patients.)  I don't think it's a good idea for either side to bring the care for born children into this.  I think we can all care about the well-being of born children while disagreeing about fetal personhood. If someone doesn't care about born children, they're probably lacking some character whether they consider themselves pro-choice or pro-life.
Thanks, I get a little too reliant on my spell check sometimes. Nah, I agree with you. The reason I posted it here wasn't to compare issues, it was about hypocrisy, because that question does come around sometimes despite the high adoption numbers, and usually it's used to imply something baseless, that is - "if you support fetal personhood, you don't really care about children suffering after they're born", or something similar. The meme is repurposing the argument(and it isn't a serious one) to immigrant children- the original point being if you think it's a stupid argument when used for immigrant kids, you should think it's dumb when referring to fetal personhood and such.



I’m not a Catholic, so perhaps it’s not my business to weigh in, but I don’t see why these politicians are not being routinely threatened with excommunication.
No you're right. I am Catholic and this always blows my mind. Excommunication is still a thing we supposedly do but i haven't heard of a single case despite abundant candidates...
Excommunication still exists, but it is something that doesn't really occur these days. It is likely that the church doesn't excommunicate those who vehemently oppose the faith and human decency in their policies because it would get the Church into the forefront of the world of politics. The moment the Church VERY PUBLICALLY excommunicates a politician is the moment where it alienates itself from a huge amount of people. The people who are "catholic" only in a cultural sense and not actually in practice would probably take the next step and leave the church and close themselves off from God. Doing this would significantly harm the church and the people within it. The best possible action currently is to make clear official statements about our faith and what is right and wrong (ex. Abortion kills a human life. What Ireland did repealing the 8th amendment was an egregious attack on the unborn.) Though I do agree that we should be more aggressive and call people on their evil, though we should try to have a dialogue and not try to engage in a shouting match as it could cut people out and harden their resolve. I personally would like to see the start of a new crusade, not one of bloodshed, but still one of fighting. Being aggressive and understanding in apologetics could be the way. Personally, I only see things getting worse.
Anyone who votes D for starters.
He's also celebrated by the Church hierarchy, last I checked. They treat this as a mere "agree to disagree" issue.
They treat it as a personal conscience issue, no doubt. This does not imply that they support his position, obviously. The Church has to tread a careful line when it comes to politicians, especially in the West. While I don't believe Becerra is a good Catholic based on his stance, there are many people who are also bad Catholics every day who aren't getting excommunicated. Hopefully, Becerra will come around, but failing to be judged for his actions in this life will not prevent him from being judged for them in the next.  I imagine this is the position of the local hierarchy.  And perhaps they are wrong about their position regarding his participation as well.
They're not nearly as careful with his opposition. I don't believe that we can chalk this up to the wisdom and prudence of the Church. Sometimes, cowardice is real. So is complicity. It may only be part of the Church, but California's hierarchy is a letdown, and has been for a while.
I would prefer they took a stronger position myself, although I can't speak to their motivations.  They may well have been cowed by the situation in California.
I take it you won’t complain if a hypothetical Muslim AG enforces their religious beliefs?
I take it you'll complain if a hypothetical atheist does? Spare me this line. And my complaint isn't that the AG is upholding any law. I'm complaining about the Church.

Because you have the MO of a left-wing atheist. Jackwagon. Again: I'm complaining about how the Church is treating this AG. That's completely separate from my complaints about him as an AG. But if you want to push this issue: I don't give a flying fuck about "fairness" with leftists, because they demonstrably don't give a damn about it with anyone else. So to answer your question: it would depend what his beliefs and political alignment was, not his mere religious identity, which - as California's AG demonstrates - doesn't mean a damn thing half the time. Now, here's a question for you: if you or someone you love gets pregnant, and - right after the baby shower - someone cruel induces an abortion, will you kindly say "it was just a clump of cells" and treat any sadness and revulsion you have over the fact as an irrational attachment? Blow.

You're very clearly a pro-choice leftist troll who came here for the explicit purpose of trolling pro-lifers. A quick review of your post history shows countless other comments attempting to troll conservatives with leftist talking points. You also appear to participate in a number of leftist echo chamber subs, further confirming this suspicion. None of us really care enough about you to try to dissect your ideology and religious beliefs to a tee. We know enough from your post history to determine your malicious intentions here. You are not fooling anyone here.
You fooled me with the novel you wrote. Also apparently: Trolling = He makes points I can’t rebut so I’m going to go on some red herrings.
1 paragraph = a novel lol. You're such a troll dude. Just go away and find another sub to troll.
Like I said, trolling = I cant rebut but I will go on red herrings.
Trolls don't require a rebuttal. That's precisely what trolls want. You bait people to get them to engage in an argument with you for your own entertainment. This ain't my first rodeo



How this connects to abortion: Pro choice people say bodily autonomy is everything. They even back a woman's right to not be kept on life support for any amount of time after death to try to save an unborn baby because her bodily autonomy overrules its right to life even if she's basically dead. They decided this man doesn't have that right. He never gave permission for his body to be used this way. He apparently wanted kids soon, and that was the woman's defense for what she wanted to do. He never said they could harvest his sperm after he died. I guess bodily autonomy doesn't mean much for men. It's only for women who want to kill their children.
There's a concept in rationalist circles known as belief in belief, wherein one claims to hold a belief that one does not actually hold, but truly beliefs oneself to hold this belief. This seems like a very good description of a great deal of the "personally pro-life" crowd, especially the Catholic ones.Take, for instance, Joe Biden, who's a self-proclaimed Catholic and claims to believe the Church's position on abortion, but nonetheless wants abortion to be legal. I probably don't need to tell you that the Church's position on abortion is that it is one of the greatest crimes against humanity in human history.Now, it's possible that he believes both "Life begins at conception and abortion therefore kills someone who is as much a person as you or I." and "Abortion should be legal.", though that would entail a belief that certain forms of what amounts to murder should be legal.However, I think a much more likely explanation is that Joe Biden believes both "I am a Catholic." and "Catholics oppose abortion." and has concluded that he therefore opposes abortion. Because while he professes to believe that life begins at conception, he doesn't act like he does.This is obvious, because his treatment of abortion doesn't align with his actions with regard to any of his other beliefs. He never says that he's personally against perjury but won't force others to follow the commandments of his religion, for instance. He doesn't believe that people should be allowed to decide for themselves whether or not their born children should be considered persons with human life. His purported opposition to abortion is clearly in a different category than other similar beliefs that he does hold.
I'd be more tempted to believe that Biden doesn't believe he opposes abortion, but wants to stay Catholic (and more importantly, wants to influence other Catholics to believe they can support abortion while 'personally being opposed') for various reasons. Podesta got exposed for talking about trying to promote a 'Catholic Spring' in the church and pull it leftward. Other attempts to do so took place before, to some success.
Yeah the problem is that, the practice of being "personally pro-life" is that, taken to its logical conclusion means one might be "personally against murder" and try to legalize killing people.
That isn't really the logical conclusion though, and least in this instance. You can be personally for something but believe me that the law should reflect the values of society as a whole instead of just what you want. Or that it simply shouldn't be something that the law deals with. Like I'm sure Biden is against adultery but probably doesn't want to make that ilegal either. being for or against something is different than thinking that something should be mandated by law, and also distinct from saying that it should be mandated by law against the will of the people.
Biden's problem isn't his live and let live position.  It's that the stakes are completely different. If someone smokes pot in their own home or has sex with someone who isn't their spouse, you could argue that it might cause a moral decay in society, but it doesn't actually impact anyone's human rights.  Not even that of the spouse who was cheated on. In the end, all of those people and those around them will not have their ability to live or function in society taken away from them. With abortion, someone is getting killed.  That means completely extinguishing all rights and life that the person has who is killed.  Believing you can compromise with that is an excellent example of the fallacy of the argument from "middle ground". In this case, "society" is not just wrong, but it is intolerably so, and Biden cannot be dumb enough to not see that. Just looking at matters with fewer stakes, would you accept a politician in a Muslim or tribally run area that hated honor killings but refused any attempt to prosecute effectively them as murder because they were accepted by that society?  I don't know many people who would accept a politician with that position.
I think it just that he has a different perception of what the stakes are, not that anything is inconsistent. If he doesn't think the stakes are that big, which is just a value judgement, then his position makes sense. If you agree with the concept of democracy, its kinda hard to say that society is "wrong", if the people want it, then its basically what they should get. What do you mean would I "accept" a politician like that? I certainly wouldn't vote for them. I would disagree with them, but if they were democratically elected, assume I didn't move away. Then I would otherwise go about my life. is that acceptance? It seems like you are assuming that you and Biden have the same values, and that he is acting incorrectly, but I would imagine the simpler idea is that he just has different values, and is acting reasonably based on that.
You know, I understand the people who make the perverse arguments about children not having value unless they meet some criteria.  I don't like that argument, and think it is horrific and will lead to a bad place for humanity in general, but it is consistent and more or less honest.  They believe that they get to assign value to a third person's life based on some arbitrary line. What Biden is doing, and many other cultural Catholics, are saying is: It's killing, but it's not my problem. The problem is, the Church doesn't see it that way, and honestly does anyone actually see Jesus really being in favor of abortion on demand? Sure, we make compromises to live in a society with non-Catholics, and to the extent that doesn't get anyone else killed, or harm us directly, I can see a Catholic politician making compromises like that.  Ultimately, people should be able to make their own decisions for their own lives. But to suggest that the taking of someone's life is small stakes?  Maybe you're right that this is how he sees it, but I can't really fathom the mental gymnastics he has to go though to suggest to himself that he's both in favor of abortion on demand being legal, and still a Catholic. Catholics don't get to assign value like those people I talked to above did.  At least if you're a Catholic, or frankly a Christian at all for that matter, you know that value is assigned by God.  I don't see how anyone can stand by and let someone be killed when it is in their power to stop it, or at least oppose it, and call themselves Catholic in good conscience.

Now let's hold him to it!

Well, if the teen's dying wish had been something unreasonable like, "lower the drinking age to 7," I doubt he would have honored that. May also be a table ploy to get success when doing the right thing and outlawing abortion...
Well, if the teen's dying wish had been something unreasonable like, "lower the drinking age to 7," I doubt he would have honored that. I don't see 'outlawing abortion' to be any more realistic.
I didn't say unrealistic. I said unreasonable. I agree with you that outlawing abortion on a federal level would be unfortunately unrealistic. It is, however, very reasonable.
He's basing his politics off of the commands of God as a devout Christian. The young man is making a huge sacrifice for the unborn for anyone of any age. Texas governor Abbott was truthful in his statement. The bill is on the agenda and there is a lot of support behind it. This could be the catalyst the ends abortion in Texas.
Isn't basing your politics on religion exactly what you're not supposed to do in a secular government?
Modern western civilization is deeply rooted in Judeochristian values. We're not really a secular government when people are asked to swear by the bible in courtrooms, and this is a great thing. Judeochristian values are objectively good for humanity.
Several presidents have chosen to not swear themselves in on the Bible. Teddy Roosevelt did not, John Adams and Franklin Pierce swore on a book of law, with the intent that they were swearing on the Constitution. It's not required because church and state are, and should be, separate. That's why laws directly from the bible, like Leviticus 20:10 and 10:13 are no longer enforced as you pointed out in your other comment. They're outdated. We should be moving forward when making our laws, not 2000 years into the past. If you're talking about just the barest vales like "don't kill people" or "don't steal", those values have existed since LONG before the Bible.
Cool beans. They're not not enforced because they're "outdated." They're not enforced because the sanhedrin no longer exists. God's word can't be "outdated." It doesn't have an expiration date and is absolute. The US is a fundamentally Judeochristian country. Very debatable. The Christian bible is based on the Tanakh. There is no consensus on just exactly how old the Tanakh is (although most agree that it's at least 3,000 years old), and there is evidence that the Tanakh itself is based on even older teachings, either verbal or written. When I say the "Bible" I am referring to these teachings (Torah); the word of God, not whatever the latest translation/adaptation is.
Sanhedrin The Sanhedrin (Hebrew and Jewish Palestinian Aramaic: סנהדרין; Greek: Συνέδριον, synedrion, "sitting together," hence "assembly" or "council") was an assembly of twenty-three or seventy-one rabbis appointed to sit as a tribunal in every city in the ancient Land of Israel. There were two classes of rabbinical courts called Sanhedrin, the Great Sanhedrin and the Lesser Sanhedrin. A lesser Sanhedrin of 23 judges was appointed to each city, but there was to be only one Great Sanhedrin of 71 judges, which among other roles acted as the Supreme Court, taking appeals from cases decided by lesser courts. In general usage, "The Sanhedrin" without qualifier normally refers to the Great Sanhedrin, which was composed of the Nasi, who functioned as head or representing president, and was a member of the court; the Av Beit Din or chief of the court, who was second to the nasi; and sixty-nine general members (Mufla). [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
The Bible is absolutely outdated. It still describes a geocentric, flat-earth worldview. https://hypertextbook.com/eworld/geocentric/ I don't understand on what you're basing your claim that the US is a Judeochristian country. I have provided an exact quote from one of the founding fathers explicitly stating otherwise.
Cool opinion. What (some of, not all) the founding fathers said about The US's religious affiliation doesn't really reconcile well with what history has shown us (that the country is fundamentally rooted in Judeochristian values). I feel like this argument is going in circles and you're definitely not going to convince me you're right. Are you even a conservative or did you just come to this sub to troll/argue with people?
You're calling Bible verses "opinions" now, or do you just hate reading? Yes, people have made the mistake of sticking religion into places where it doesn't belong, but we're moving past that. It's an improvement. And no, I'm by no means conservative. This subreddit isn't based around being conservative, though, it's based around the topic of abortion. You can be mostly liberal and be anti-choice. You can be mostly conservative and be pro-choice. Different issues warrant different opinions. That being said, I am quite adamantly pro-choice. I look at this sub because I base my opinions on issues around the arguments of both sides.
Are you an anarchist?
Looks like we got another leftist pro-choice troll here. Not surprised

Secular government doesn't exist. There is no neutrality and our nations laws and principles are based off of the bible.
"The United States is in no sense founded upon the Christian Religion" - George Washington, Treaty of Tripoli. If you want our nation's laws to be based around the Bible, are we also going to be stoning adulterers and LGBT people? (Leviticus 20:10)
Those laws can't be enforced in the modern world because they require a conviction under a special kind of rabbinic court (sanhedrin) which no longer exists and hasn't for a very long time.
That quote was in reference to religious liberty at a federal level. Context is important. Citing one sentence out of a letter without the contest, audience, or subject is either dishonest or ignorant. States were welcome to have official religions and many did. Also to say our nations laws wern't based off of Biblical principles and standards of justice is just ignorant. If you want to shake your fist at God please do so with someone else. I'm done with angry atheists. Why would you even be in a profile subreddit? Objective standards of morality presupposes a theistic worldview.
It doesn't matter what it was in reference to. It was a statement of fact from which he built his reasoning. If I say "I am afraid of wasps" in reference to the fact that I freaked out at the Tracker Jacker scene in Hunger Games, the fact that I am afraid of wasps still stands on his own. If Washington said "The United States is not founded on the Christian Religion" in reference to the fact that the government does not discriminate towards Muslims, the fact that the United States is a secular nation still stands on its own. Is that why predominantly atheist countries have lower crime rates? Source: http://www.nairaland.com/121066/predominantly-atheist-countries-lowest-crime Direct link to Zuckerman's paper: https://pitweb.pitzer.edu/academics/wp-content/uploads/sites/38/2014/12/FAC-Zuckerman-Sociology-Compass.pdf
Lol "it doesn't matter what it was in reference to" Wow thats hilarious. You are so intellectually dishonest that you're dismissing your own quote because of the context. Let me give you one thing to ponder really quickly. Would you take one line out of a book that would make it seem like it went against the theme of the rest of the entire book and say that the contacts didn't matter? If that's all George Washington meant then why didn't they just use one sentence in his letter? I think it's safe to say that we're done here. If you can't be honest then there's no point in continuing.
Did you even read any of what I said beyond that? I explained that it is a standalone fact from which he built his reasoning. Do you want the full article? Fine. "As the Government of the United States of America is not, in any sense, founded on the Christian religion; as it has in itself no character of enmity against the laws, religion, or tranquility, of Mussulmen (Muslims); and as the said States never entered into any war or act of hostility against any Mahometan (Mohammedan) nation, it is declared by the parties that no pretext arising from religious opinions shall ever produce an interruption of the harmony existing between the two countries." If "X is true, therefore Y" X is true regardless of whether or not we're talking about Y. In this case X is "The United States is a secular nation" and Y is "The United States will not discriminate against Muslims."
Well, it doesn't matter that the teen thinks, because abortion should be outlawed immediately regardless, but I suppose that's good news anyway.


This is just so sad...how can someone not realise that there's a baby inside of them? Do they just think it turns human after it pops out? That's the most unscientific thing I've ever heard... I don't care when or how I get pregnant, I would never ever ever abort a child. I'm not ready to have children yet, so abstinence is the best birth control. When I get married I'll be fine. But for now, my rule is: if you aren't ready to have a kid, you aren't ready to have (unsafe) sex. (Just my opinion, others may differ of course)
There's a youtube video called "the magical birth canal". You should see it.
People who deny the humanity of the unborn should be called what they are, science-deniers.
I think the issue isn't that they think it isn't human - They know well that it is. Their issue is that it can inconvenience the mother, so the child must be reduced to a parasite and terminated.
It’s morally abhorrent thinking. This our culture of convenience is so sad.
Didn't congress just vote on a 22-week ban on abortion, and it didn't pass because the democrats nearly unanimously voted against it? Is this a case of government officials not being in tune with what the public wants?
Our abortion laws are looser than many even in Europe, but people act like if you can't have an abortion up to 40 weeks we're living in Handmaid 's Tale. It's so frustrating.
If I could die in their place I would. I’ve lived my life and these little precious babies are being mutilated to death. They don’t even get a chance to live. No decency. Not even being put under anesthesia and given nerve blockers when they rip up their delicate bodies. We live in a world that doesn’t want to kill dangerous criminals who can’t be put back into society. But want to murder babies.... And when we put fido down they at least put him to sleep before they kill them. This shit makes me not want to live. Not in this world And then when the child isn’t ripped to shreds the government and society promptly gets to work brainwashing, sabotaging, and poisoning the child
I thought it was pretty obvious. Once it develops nerves it can feel anything. Well, it’s still just a clump of cells and not a real person! /s
he.
Or she
yes, or she. But I'm too lazy, so I generalize.
Mini person in any case
A mini person is still a full person, unless you want to imply I'm less of a person than my husband, who is considerably taller than I am.
To u/RafeHaab : my belief is that any person is a person. I too am shorter than my fiancé, which he takes advantage of by putting my favorite snacks out of my reach for the giggles. His brother and friends do the same stuff they all giggle when I have to get the dishes down cause I have to use a ladder...... To the person that downvoted me: why am I being downvoted? I’m calling a baby a mini person. HEY GUYS IM PRO LIFE ! If you’re down voting my comment your disagreeing that a baby IS a person I have NEVER seen a pro abortion moron ever say/admit/imply that a baby(oh wait they insist on calling a baby a fetus even though that just means offspring), I’ve never seen them say a fetus is a person. Cause remember they want to insist “it’s” just a clump of cells I mean how could anyone misunderstand me? Unless you’re anti life Again; I - am- PRO LIFE If I get pregnant, which atm it’s not part of the plan for me to get preggers, I will keep the baby. I do NOT consider the murder of a tiny human being as an “option” NO one should.
Sorry, I misunderstand jokes very often, unless they are labeled as such.
You seem very confrontational, even when talking to someone who agrees with you.  There wasn't even anything to misunderstand in that comment, so it kinda just looks like you were looking for an argument and would jump at the chance to have one no matter what was said to you.
Sorry, english is not my language. I might have picked some bad habits from native redditors and I don't know how to change them.
Sad story - this is actually linked to why we got an abortion. Our daughter had some pretty severe problems where her ribs broke and started poking out and everything was deformed. The likelihood of here making it to term was really small, and if she did make it, she wouldn't live for long. Like minutes under intense care. We found out at 18 weeks and the doc told us that she would start to feel pain around 20 - 23 weeks. If we did it early we could avoid her having terrible pain that just ends terribly. This was by far the most painful and difficult decision ever, but we believe that our jobs, as parents, are to give our children the best possible lives we can. So we chose to do our best to make sure she did not live an entire existence of pain and suffering. I think abortion after 20 weeks for contraception is not a good thing. But I do think we need to allow these extreme circumstances like what we went through happen. I am not smart enough to know how the law would work, but we can't be on the extreme of either side. Abortions allowed for any reason and no abortions for any reason are both really bad ideas. Just wanted to share.
I am sorry for your loss.
Thank you
Not my place to judge. Just curious when you say her ribs were deformed. What exactly do you mean
My best guess is osteogenesis imperfecta type II.  The ribs are deformed due to multiple fractures.  It's the bone mineralization failures that make the prognosis poor, not the rib deformities in and off themselves.
You are exactly right.  The ribs were the thing that really made it real for us.  So many other problems, like thin skull that would probably result in a crushed head coming out and broken leg bones, but on the ultrasound, seeing the ribs actually poking out, that really made me understand what kind of pain she would have been in.  I wouldn't wish that on anything, much less my own daughter. That being said, the choice to terminate early was the path we took after a lot of soul searching, but I hold no ill feelings toward those families that choose to take the child to term.  When you have to make a decision like this, I think you build a much better appreciation for those who made the opposite choice, because you had to actually think about it.  It was an option. It is cases like this that I want women and families to have a choice in.  I don't want governments and people who have never gone through this to tell someone who is going through it what to do.  Prochoice or prolife, I think everyone can agree that the extreme cases like this need to come down to the family's choice.  I just don't want these things to get washed up in the abortion as contraceptive argument.  I think they should be separate so that we don't risk more pain.  But I'll jump off my soapbox.  Sorry about the rant.
I'm sorry for your loss, but I hope you realize that your tragic case is not the norm.
I do know that.  But it still happens and should be considered.  As I said, extremes on either end are bad.  Making abortion completely illegal with no other consideration is bad, just as complete legalization would be terrible.
What your doctor told you ( " the doc told us that she would start to feel pain around 20 - 23 weeks." ) was conservative.  I posted a link elsewhere here (this) which describes mainstream medical opinion on fetal pain.  Of course, aborting earlier was still safer for you or your partner (unclear which of you was pregnant from your posts).
We did it as soon as we found out and weighed our decision.  Earlier would have been much better, I agree, but that we couldn't control.
I meant from the perspective of 18 weeks vs 20-23 weeks.  I do think a lot of the 20-week bans being floated by Republicans are oblivious to the reality of 20-week anatomy ultrasounds having surprises sometimes.
Yeah, that's one reason I try to tell my story.  I think it brings things into perspective.  Honestly, I think most of the people who push for those bans just don't understand the whole story.  They just see babies being murdered, which is completely fair to try to prevent.  But these cases should be understood before laws are made that can really hurt people too.
I'm actually curious what the pro-life consensus is on a case like this in light of the posted article.  If unborn babies feel more pain than even adults, if an unborn baby is in a condition where it will feel nothing but agony for months, only to be born in more agony before dying shortly after due to their condition, is that one of the exception cases for abortion?
Obviously I'm biased, but I have talked to a lot of prolife people about my story, and minus a few trolls, the grand majority of people agree that this case should be a choice the parents can make. Most people on both sides, prolife and prochoice are actually in the middle in my limited experience. I really think there is a lot we can agree on if we stop demonizing the other sides. And I truly mean both sides.
this is incredibly sad but it shouldn't make a difference in whether or not people view abortion as wrong. if you kill someone in their sleep and they don't feel a thing it's still murder; murder doesnt require pain.
Eh, if you torture and murder someone, it is much worse than murdering someone in their sleep.  Yes, both bad, but one is way worse.  I think the point here is that after a certain point, it isn't just murder while sleeping, it is torture and murder.  Argument for limiting contraceptive abortion after 20 weeks.
Of course they do, they're being fucking murdered.
Does anybody have the reference from the anesthesia text book he mentioned about pain likely being felt at 16 weeks and definitely at 20 weeks?
Almost all elective abortions occur before 20 weeks when the fetus can feel pain. Whilst it humanises the fetus, it doesn't help legally protect them. Most people support a 20 weeks abortion limit anyway for cases that aren't outlyers.
Not where I live (Oregon). People here, for some reason, are absolutely fierce about maintaining the legal protection of a woman's right to abort at any time during her pregnancy, for any reason. There are no gestational restrictions or really any restrictions at all. From a CDC report from 2014, over 5000 babies were aborted in the US after 20 weeks. That's more than the population of my town.
5000 isn't really that many given the total number of abortions in America and the number of abortions that are occuring due to outlier reasons. Fetal defects, rape and so on. The reasons that are going to be virtually impossible to ban. How many of those 5000 wouldn't just occur earlier if there was ban?
I...disagree that 5000 isn't a lot.
Well we will have to agree to disagree if that's your opinion.
I mean, I believe that abortion is the unjust killing of an innocent life so really any amount is too much. I think if these were day old infants being killed for convenience, we would agree that 5000 is a lot, no?
It's more people killed than in the event that we started a war in Afghanistan over.
5k is 5k too many.
I agree. But I'm saying that a 5k reduction isn't going to impact the overall rate, and the law isn't going to change demand for abortion.
Hey, Wehavecrashed, just a quick heads-up:occuring is actually spelled occurring. You can remember it by two cs, two rs.Have a nice day! The parent commenter can reply with 'delete' to delete this comment.
I would like to talk to them, do you have a list?
Every poll I've seen would suggest that a majority of Americans would support a 20 week ban on abortions.
That's great! Let's support a ban on murder past 20 years of life too. Because if we call them "minors", it means they aren't people.
Like it or not close to half of the US identify as pro choice and don't think abortion is murder. Sarcasm isn't going to convince them of anything.
So if I convince enough people suicide is good, it means I'm right? It doesn't matter how many people think it's acceptable. Jewish genocide had enough supporters in germany to make it happen, but we do agree now they were wrong. Slavery had enough supporters in the past to keep it legal, yet we now can rightfully agree blacks deserve better than treating them like animals. Well, it happens now we have found a new way to commit genocide/slavery. We simply kill inconvenient people before they are born. Pro-choicers are the modern slavery/genocide apologists and will regarded as so in history books.
Look, I'm pretty darn pro-life and I don't think it's a good idea to use arguments like these. (Another person added a comment on DPLM's  Twitter, adding "child killer"  and "pro-murder")
I didn't use any of those terms. MAybe you should reread my comment. I called them "pro-choicers", which doesn't appear on your list.
I understand that you didn't use those specific terms, but calling them slavery apologists/pro-genociders isn't going to help the cause either.
So I shouldn't call this massive abortion plague for what it is? Margaret Sanger intended it to be a tool to control black population, but as every evil, it turned around and bit her in the face.

Why don't you travel there and do your own leg work.
Wow, that was really polite of you.
It wasn't meant to be polite any more than your sarcastic remark was meant to be.
There's a difference between sarcasm and rudeness. You basically called me lazy, while I simply implied you don't have a source for your claim.
20 weeks would be pretty late for an abortion.
No to these people nutcases you should be able to have an abortion literally right up until the point of birth.
Have you seen the slate article promoting "post-birth abortion"?
To be fair, the article you are referring to does not really promote it, and it rightfully realizes that the idea of post-birth abortion is more dangerous for the pro-choice side than the pro-life, since it is just the current pro-choice stance taken to its logical conclusion. I like the argument, since it asserts that birth does not change anything fundamental about the child, which is 100% consistent with the pro-life reasoning.
Heh I didn't read it, just saw the memes, like this one. I don't go to slate or any of the other leftist news sites, I'm extremely allergic to feminists.
This has all been debunked here: https://www.reddit.com/r/prochoice/comments/7fckiv/debunking_the_fetal_pain_at_820_weeks_argument/?st=jimb73uo&sh=5d937563
For people who want to read more about the scientific consensus on the subject, this is a review article by a governing body, whereas OP presents a self-promoting interview in the lay press. Uh-huh.
To be fair, the article you posted is a decade old. Do you have anything more recent?
It's 8 years old, and these kinds of governing-body reviews are typically updated around every 10 years, sometimes more, unless pressing evidence comes out.  This statement from RCOG was an update from their 1997 statement. But sure, here's a statement from ACOG three years ago: https://www.acog.org/-/media/Sections/WI/MembersOnly/Joint-Letter-to-Senate.pdf
The ACOG has changed their "scientific" opinion depending on the law they were opposing (in the Hobby Lobby case, they submitted a brief claiming that Plan B and ella don't prevent implantation of the embryo, while when they opposed "life at conception" bills, they claimed all hormonal BC functions partly by preventing implantation, which would obviously include both Plan B and ella). Unfortunately I don't really find them trustworthy.
Citation please?  I'd be very intrigued to see ACOG making that claim. My reaction to this is similar to hearing a climate-change denier doesn't find NOAA trustworthy.
I can't find it on their website any more but Politifact quotes them in this article: http://www.politifact.com/virginia/statements/2013/sep/16/ken-cuccinelli/cuccinelli-says-he-never-backed-legislation-limits/ They claimed that personhood bills would make all contraception except fertility awareness, condoms, spermicides, etc. illegal, and that oral contraceptives and IUDs could be made illegal. If the NOAA changed their scientific opinion for political reasons I wouldn't blame them. Also I'm not sure if you have the impression that I'm against birth control, but for the record I'm not, I don't have any moral objection to contraception use per se. Edit: Here's the ACOG's statement on their site via the Wayback Machine: https://web.archive.org/web/20120421040014/http://www.acog.org/About_ACOG/News_Room/News_Releases/2012/Personhood_Measures
From your link: " Thus, some of the most effective and reliable forms of contraception, such as oral contraceptives, intrauterine devices (IUDs) and other forms of FDA-approved hormonal contraceptives could be banned in states that adopt ‘personhood’ measures, " (emphasis mine) From your second link: "These "personhood" proposals, as acknowledged by proponents, would make condoms, natural family planning, and spermicides the only legally allowed forms of birth control. Thus, some of the most effective and reliable forms of contraception, such as oral contraceptives, intrauterine devices (IUDs), and other forms of FDA-approved hormonal contraceptives could be banned in states that adopt "personhood" measures." At the time that these personhood laws were being considered (and since then), many of the same Christian groups that were against them were opposed to hormonal contraceptives on the grounds of potential interference with implantation. Additionally, demonstrating the absence of interference with implantation is challenging.  There are many studies on the subject, and the overwhelming trend in these studies is to show that there is no evidence for interference with implantation.  Is that enough for somebody who thinks zygotes are people?  I'd rather not find out. Those personhood bills spurred a lot more ambitious research on the subject, and by the time Hobby Lobby was happening it was easier to make more confident statements. ACOG's statement that they could be banned is one that I agree with.  Their other statement that they would is, I think, a little debatable for a detail-stickler like me, but absolutely fine from a PR perspective.  And it's not an interpretation of the medical facts that makes the could/would difference, it's a matter of interpretation of what moves would follow from the religious right.
They don't make that clear in the statement though (if that's what they actually meant). The Politifact writer (and the Washington Post editorial board, along with others) clearly believed ACOG was saying that hormonal BC prevents implantation and they are hardly a bunch of pro-life shills. I don't see how ACOG could make the unequivocal statement that all BC besides condoms, etc. would be banned under a personhood measure unless they were saying all hormonal BC could cause abortion. I know you'd rather not know but it would be enough for me. The NYT's article on research showing that Plan B doesn't stop implantation came out the same year as ACOG's personhood bill statement. I mean, given that there was all this evidence that Plan B didn't prevent implantation in 2012, it's weird ACOG wouldn't use that in their statements about the personhood bills. If they're so concerned about the far reaching ramifications it would have on birth control make it clear to legislators and the courts that hormonal BC doesn't interfere with implantation. But it wasn't until Hobby Lobby that they became at all interested in correcting the record about EC and OCs.
I agree with this statement. I don't see support for this statement in any of the material we've discussed so far. First off, nobody ever said anything about hormonal BC causing abortion.  Failure of implantation is not abortion. Second, I do see how they would make that statement.  They would make that statement because, at the time, interference with implantation could not be excluded -- not to the degree that would be necessary in a zygote-personhood framework.  Because of the political issues at the time, the subject was studied much more closely, and confident statements about it could be made. I, myself, wouldn't make it as unequivocally as they did.  After all, the law could be passed, and then nuclear war could break out.  No time to ban other contraceptive methods.  Or the religious right could decide they had enough and stop limiting women's access to reproductive control.  It's up to any individual to decide how likely either of those is.  I'd also be terrible at PR. I'm glad to hear it.  Please do not take my comments about the actions or opinions of conservatives as necessarily applying personally to you. And I think the language in the NYT article (good find!) is in keeping with what I'm saying. " “The emerging data on Plan B suggest that it does not inhibit implantation. Less is known about Ella. However, some data suggest it also does not inhibit implantation.” " Well, data kept emerging and it sounds like by 2014 ACOG was more confident.  When the facts change, we change our mind, etc. (If I ever seem cagey on this, well, I wasn't making those decisions on ACOG's behalf and I can't remember the exact years that things changed.  You could easily find a gotcha! where some stuff was available earlier.  I'm not trying to say I knew exactly what ACOG was thinking, only that your argument that this is evidence of lying in support of a political agenda is not supported.) By "all this evidence," do you mean: "The emerging data on Plan B suggest that it does not inhibit implantation."?  What if the suggestion turned out to be wrong?  Or not enough for the religious right?
Really? From Politifact: " The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists says such legislation could outlaw birth control pills and other forms of contraception that prevent a fertilized egg from implanting in a uterus." From the Washington Post editorial board: "This is because the pill, as well as other forms of birth control, work partly by preventing the implantation of eggs in the uterus wall after they have been fertilized...As the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists pointed out, “Some of the most effective and reliable forms of contraception — oral contraceptives, intrauterine devices, and other forms of FDA-approved contraceptives — would be banned” by “personhood” measures." People who weren't supporters of the personhood bill were arguing that some forms of contraception prevented implantation and therefore the bill would ban some contraceptives, and cited the ACOG's statement in support of that. Yeah I should have said "prevent implantation," however for the record a little over half of OBGYNs would actually disagree with you. Per Reuters, a poll of 1,000 OBGYNs said that pregnancy begins at conception. Could you provide links to maybe some of those more recent studies that made the ACOG more confident? I'm not aware of any studies that came out in 2013 that say unequivocally that Plan B or ella doesn't prevent implantation, compared with what was around in 2012. Well you're asserting that ACOG wasn't lying because they just couldn't make a confident claim about the mechanism of EC in 2012, but because of increased research, they were more confident in 2013 (confident enough to state as fact that both Plan B and ella don't disrupt implantation). I'm not aware of a ton of new research coming out in that window of time to support your statement.

I didn't realize this--it's very disturbing if true. Do you have any additional information about this?
ACOG's personhood bill statement is quoted here (it's no longer on their website): http://www.politifact.com/virginia/statements/2013/sep/16/ken-cuccinelli/cuccinelli-says-he-never-backed-legislation-limits/ For some reason Reddit isn't letting me put in the direct link for ACOG's Hobby Lobby brief, but just follow the link to it in this article, it's the October 2013 brief. This is the relevant quote: "Respondents’ claim that Plan B and Ella prevent implantation is not supported by current scientiﬁc data or by evidence in the record below. To the contrary, scientiﬁc research shows that Plan B and Ella both function by inhibiting or postponing ovulation; they do not prevent fertilization or implantation..."
Very interesting. Thanks for the links!
Unfortunately I am unable to access the link (I think it's only available to members?)
Oh.  Huh, yeah it does say that in the very URL. https://www.acog.org/About-ACOG/News-Room/Statements/2018/ACOG-Opposes-US-Senate-Effort-to-Limit-Abortion-Access Should be accessible.
Thank you! Although I'm disappointed that ACOG's statement doesn't cite any specific scientific studies, I appreciate the link regardless.
Sure, it's a briefer and more recent statement. ACOG has made past statements that do cite the RCOG review paper. Sometimes there's an area that hasn't had major discoveries in the past decade.  I don't think it's a problem that the RCOG statement is eight years old.
I just like to keep abreast of the most recent scientific data. Not an unreasonable request, is it? Besides, the point at which a fetus experiences pain is largely irrelevant to the core of the debate. That's why I personally think legislation pushing for 20-week bans is silly.
I'm not saying it's unreasonable, I'm just explaining why it's not unreasonable that these sort of governing-body statements don't get updated yearly. I think it's more than silly; I think that disingenuity in lawmakers is how democracies fail.
...I never said they should get updated yearly? That's a bit hyperbolic. Legislative attempts to protect innocent human life in this context don't pose any threats to democracy; what's silly is that the legislation is attempting to protect life at the wrong benchmark.

This article is old. Dated May 12, 2015.
And people still don't get it!

Gov. Abbott granted Jeremiah Thomas (16) his dying wish. He called Jeremiah yesterday and promised to help abolish abortion in Texas. The Governor was gracious with his time. He listened to Jeremiah's testimony and encouraged him in his faith. Jeremiah said that the Governor was "compassionate and receptive." Jeremiah shared his heart regarding abortion. He appealed to the Governor to protect preborn babies by completely abolishing abortion by treating it as murder and penalizing it by law in the great state of Texas. Prior to the call, the Governors wife, Cecilia, reached out to Jeremiah through Facebook. She sent prayers and hugs. They both demonstrated genuine Christian love and concern for the plight of our son. www.operationsaveamerica.org
Hope this happens. I know governor Abbott is apparently devoutly catholic so I hope he tries to really do it unlike so many
Conservative Catholic (and other faiths also) Governors have been trying since the 1990's to make abortion illegal. It hasn't worked because abortion is (for now) a constitutional right under Roe V Wade and any attempt to do so is shut down immediately.
What a great kid! And an amazing wish too.
Put your zipcode into this tool to automatically contact all your local and federal representatives and tell them you stand behind them to end abortion. https://endabortionnow.com/contact-representatives/
I'm sorry, I want to sign and send this, but I have to be able to modify the text and subject line of the letter in order to put my name to it. It's a personal thing.
Thank you!
You're welcome. Please share it as much as you can. There are also other great resources on that site
What a hopeful gesture, bless this kid.
That's a noble dying wish. I would be proud to have a son like Jeremiah.
Don't make promises you can't keep. Especially to a dying kid.
Update

I hate to say it, but I really can't be surprised that the people that work to cover up sex trafficking would be encouraging teens to have sex. More murdered children means more money for them, and they don't care who else gets hurt in the process.
You think abstinence only education is appropriate?
Bashing abstinence is different from bashing abstinence only education. Both should be taught in schools.
Abstinence only education is a complete failure.
I agree.

Thank you for posting this article. It's a reminder to SPL and Pro-Lifers about how major figures in the Pro-Life movement supported Roy Moore: National Right to Life the nation's oldest and largest pro-life organization supported Roy Moore https://www.roymoore.org/Press-Releases/112/National-Right-to-Life-Endorses-Judge-Roy-Moore-in-Alabama-Senate-Special-Election Many Anti Choice Extremists threw press conferences in support of Roy Moore. Such as: Janet Porter, the president of anti-choice group Faith2Action. Rusty Thomas, director of the radical anti-choice group Operation Save America. Flip Benham, who formerly directed Operation Save America. and others: https://rewire.news/article/2017/11/16/anti-choice-extremists-throw-press-conference-support-roy-moore/ More endorsements here: https://rewire.news/article/2017/12/13/abortion-rights-foes-flail-finger-point-mourn-roy-moore-falls-alabama/ Jerry Falwell Jr. Son of Moral Majority Founder Jerry Falwell, and president of the largest evangelical university in the world. Rumor has it that Liberty University has been trying to train lawyers in an effort to overturn Roe v. Wade. https://twitter.com/JerryFalwellJr/status/940384467851587584 Life Site News. A far-right Catholic publication also supported Roy Moore in numerous articles https://www.lifesitenews.com/news/breaking-alabama-special-election
In the general against an actual abortion extremist (Doug Jones). In the primary they supported Luther Strange.
Democrats need to be opposed in every way. EVERY single one is in the abortion industry's pocket. Even """"Pro Life""" Dems like Joe Manchin and Bob Casey Jr.

It's just more demonization of Trump and the Republicans. They could care less about the children, they can't vote.
DACA, DAPA shows otherwise. Apparently for a party that doesn’t care they sure put in  place policies that contradict the notion.
Well, it is a nice time to turn the tables a bit. “How can you be pro-choice and say you are against separating children from their mothers? Do you only care about kids after they’re born? Does that really make you anti-birth?”
One could use the same argument for a pro-lifer supporting the death penalty, i suppose.   I do understand your point though, as clearly abortion kills a human being whose only crime is to be unwanted.   It is a moral inconsistency to support the existence of abortion while simultaneoulsy expressing outrage over the emotional trauma of a child being separated from his or her parent(s).  I'd venture a guess that being surgically separated from the womb at 20 weeks,  is far more damaging to the child than being temporarily detained.
I've evolved. I use to support the death penalty, but I now support putting the Bittakers in the ADX facility until they die of old age. They say it's a high tech hell on earth. I don't think that people who accidentally killed somebody in a robbery deserve the death penalty. Somebody who executes the victims after they gave up their possessions should. These people would rather have the child of the illegal migrants suffer than to deport them all together back to where they've come from. If that's the truth then nothing more than seeing the "medical waste" that could have been their grandchildren would shake them up. A lot of women become mentally deranged after they've aborted their child, and then, later on, have children.  Once they've held their newborn baby in their hands they'll realize that they've killed their child. If the USA wants to crack down on illegals then they need to fine Mexico by putting a tax on wired money by the migrant workers. I'm for forcing high school students to watch graphic videos of abortion if it would put an end to these debates, let the images burn into their skulls. Same goes for the inner cities, but I would send the children to a rocket launch before taking them to a morgue to let them decide what future would they like. You can either be a rocket scientist or a thug nobody cares about when they get killed. I wonder how many kids will think that it's cool to be a gangster after that. I don't feel like having these battles continue for another 50 years.
Eh, I doubt it. Liberals don't really care about kids. They just appeal to emotion to manipulate voters. Almost none of the people raving about illegal migrant children actually care about those children. It's just a tactic they use to further their political agenda. Edit: Lol downvoted already by some triggered lib. Wouldn't be surprised if its one of the trolls who's been following me around the site
You know what?  You are not doing the pro life cause any favors by being so hateful.  What is WRONG with you?
There is absolutely nothing wrong with hating evil. Therefore, there is nothing wrong with me
What evil are you hating?  You profess to know the heart and mind of every person who disagrees with you.  That is not hating evil that is just hate.
Liberalism is evil. I hate things that are evil. Therefore, I hate liberalism.
It sounds like you are more interested in hating liberalism than stopping abortion.
My desire to stop abortion is fueled by my hatred for liberalism (and evil in general), so your assessment is incorrect.
If you were the least bit interested in stopping abortion, you would realize that all kinds of people are against abortion and all kinds of people are pro choice.  Not everyone that is liberal is pro choice and not everyone who is conservative is pro life.  You will never change hearts and minds if you put people in boxes. I am assuming you want to change people's minds.
The pro-life movement is an objectively conservative movement. The pro-choice movement is an objectively liberal movement. If you're a liberal, you side with the enemy. Simple as that. Choose your allegiance wisely
So then you are not interested in changing people's minds. You are shutting out any liberal that agrees with you and would want to work with you to a common goal.  You see, I don't see abortion as a conservative movement.  I see it as a human rights issue.  Liberal are big on human rights.   If I were you I wouldn't be turning anyone away that wants to protest with me because I don't agree with them 100%.  There will always be things about which people disagree even among conservatives themselves.

There are no sides dude, seriously. There are people, and people have a variety of opinions. How can you justify this kind of thinking? "The librulz r rooning murica." It may be because I am directly in the middle that I can see both sides, but you should really take a step back if you think liberalism is the reason for all of our troubles, and "conservatives" are the key to all that is good and holy. You are beyond deluded.

It’s as simple as that everyone. Close up shop this person has it all figured out! /s

Ugh, I too hate it when my substantive due process rights are advanced.
Everything that he said is factual. The truth that he stated upsets you the way graphic pictures of aborted babies upsets the "pro-choice" crowd. Hatefacts.
Everything he said is OPINION.
Yea exactly, people only care when it fits their political ideology, which in my opinion is inherently evil. Typical appeal to emotion nonsense.
Hey, how about we help the children being stuck in old Walmarts, who have no idea where there parents are and have no adults to change their diapers or comfort them? Those children are alive, they feel pain, terror and loneliness. We can all agree on that. Why don't you pro-"life"rs jump in their and save them?
Should we dump them on our overloaded foster care system?
From a logically consistent perspective, the pro-choice response would be to kill them.
That isn’t logically consistent at all. Please define pro choice and how it interacts with what you said.
Sure it is. A common justification for legalized abortion is to alleviate the suffering of the poor and otherwise disadvantaged. So instead of simply striving to aid that populace, pro-choicers promote abortion as a quick bandaid to fix those underlying problems. [Edited for clarity]
Again, what is the definition  of pro choice.
pro choice = pro legalized abortion
So if a mother chooses under her own free will to keep a child over a legalized abortion, is that pro choice?
I think you're confusing the central goal of the pro-choice movement (legalized abortion) with the decision of one mother in a jurisdiction where abortion is legal. Conflating a person's decision not to have an abortion with a desire for legalized abortion is deliberately misleading and, frankly, abhorrent. The term "pro-choice" is obviously just a misleading euphemism for the desire for legalized abortion, since, at least in my experience, pro-"choicers" care far less about a woman's desire to have a baby than a woman's desire to have an abortion. As an example, at my law school a couple of years ago, my friends and I held a diaper drive to assist needy mothers, and you know what happened? Not a single pro-"choice" student donated or otherwise assisted with the drive.

I agree that this is sad, but my intent with linking this thread is not to send hate messages to the user - my intent with this was to get some people to see this and send support or encouragement so that hopefully the user will give his and his wife's child a chance at life. /u/Imperiochica - please pin this/comment
uhh I'll be honest, I have no idea how, I don't see it as an option...?
Whoops, sorry :/ I know the r/exmuslim mods can do it on theirs. Maybe it only works on moderator comments or certain subs
Yeah I know how to do it on mine, but no idea on others. If you find out let me know!
Yeah I just checked r/modhelp and the dead sub I "kind of" mod and it doesn't look like you can pin comments(unless they're your own), only posts. Sorry to bother you.
Dear God. These people are so...cold. Calculating. That’s real evil- the kind that hides and calls itself compassion.
The worst part is, I don't even think these people are trying to condone evil. They're acting in good faith, most of them, and trying to do the right thing. How easy it is for us to try so hard and yet get things so horribly wrong.
...I don't even want to check the thread itself >.<
Killing someone because of a disability is the nastiest thing one can do. It is eugenics. And we as a society condone it. :(
It is sad.
For mobile and non-RES users | More info | -1 to Remove | Ignore Sub
Honestly sickening.
If the child can survive out of womb without 24/7 care. Then you should not. There's a difference between autism or down syndrome and a child being born without a brainstem.
Are you saying it is morally permissible to kill a human being that would require more care than a child that is "more independent", so to speak?
Hey, SarcasticAce, just a quick heads-up:independant is actually spelled independent. You can remember it by ends with -ent.Have a nice day! The parent commenter can reply with 'delete' to delete this comment.
delete
I'm talking about the babies who's soul has left it's body before it was born. http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-3293259/Baby-born-without-brain-amazes-doctors-celebrating-second-birthday-says-Mummy-time.html Freaks. They remind me of that mother who poisoned her son with salt for attention.
What is a soul? 2)Your link discusses holoprosencephaly and clearly the child shows some level of cognition - being able to name things and recognize them. You seem to have a very low opinion of people born with severe physical/mental defects. And I fail to see how these parents are at fault for their child's condition- unless they took some kind of drug, which is not supported at all by the link.
Is there a good list out there of prolife groups working on the situation with children being separated from their parents at the US borders/ports of entry? I want to help but I don't want my money going to an abortion provider.
Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Services has actually been dealing with this for a while. And definitely not an abortion provider! https://www.lirs.org/
Thank you!

I'm really getting sick of this myth. The overwhelming majority of conservatives are fine with contraceptives- they just oppose 1) being forced to pay for them, and 2) abortifacient pills posing as contraceptives.
I find it darkly entertaining how they flip-flop on the issue. Back when personhood amendments were the big craze, pro-choice news outlets were screaming about how they'd ban birth control because birth control can inhibit implantation. Then when the Hobby Lobby case was the big story, suddenly everyone was all "because they believe birth control can inhibit implantation (which it doesn't)".
Because they don't want the government to pay = AGAINST CONTRACEPTION/HATE WOMEN. Say it louder and louder and it works as a talking point when I'd say 99% of us don't give two shits about birth control!
I'm convinced a good share of people who make arguments like the infanticide one do so purely as a narcissistic, nihilistic exercise. It's like goading someone into committing suicide purely for the joy of having had that much power over someone, but on a cultural, even industrial scale.
This is the sort of perverse logic that can be hard to fight on its own.  It is a bold faced acceptance that the only value for someone's life is what someone else assigns to it.  Since only some form of sentience gives value to these folks, those without it can be disposed of at will. That's why the conception line is the only reasonable one.  An individual does not exist before conception, it does afterward.  The risk to human rights and value is far too high to make the line arbitrary like the pro-choice movement has.
Old article, ridiculously editorialized title.

Fun fact: Most illegal immigrants are coming from mostly Catholic countries. Another fun fact: Catholics oppose abortion. Conclusion: Maybe if we welcomed more of these immigrants in and gave them a quicker path to citizenship, their votes could be used to stop the genocide of the unborn. White people aren’t reproducing fast enough either, so if this continues, watch out.
We dont need to fast track citizenship for the sake for an abortion vote.
Fast Track Abortion? Better watch out because Drumpth will have men armed with dart guns that are laced abortion juice! They call it  the two-step abortion clinic.
Except immigrants overwhelmingly vote Democrat.
As a Hispanic, I see that most of my family overwhelmingly is pro-life and Catholic. Literally zero family members (out of ~50 cousins) are pro-choice. However, out of all of them, very few are active in voting because they see both parties as not representing them. I vote. But I cast most of my ballots reluctantly.
I don't expect any party to begin representing them better in the near future. I suspect though, that even if Republicans did become more immigration-friendly, many Hispanics would still vote Democrat, because of the racism (real or perceived) of the Republican party, even despite being very pro-life and Catholic. Heck, half of white Catholics vote Democrat anyway.
Probably because Republicans treat them like shit. Cubans are the prototypical case of what happens when Republican administrations open their arms to immigrants because a lot of them lean right.
I'm not so sure, but it'd be interesting to see. I don't see Republicans doing that for a while at least.
Isn’t Ireland majority Catholic? Sounds like most Catholics don’t oppose abortion at all.
The Church has taken a major hit recently in Ireland.  And never assume that belonging to the Church means you actually follow through on anything except the cultural stuff.  I imagine that many, if not most younger Irish don't give enough of a crap either way, and probably want to be seen as "progressive". I will say, however, that some of the concern was due to a mishandling of the exception for the life of the mother, at least in one case.  That's fair, but the new abortion law won't just be there to fix that problem, they'll be likely opening it up for on-demand up to 12 weeks. There are also plenty of US politicians that are pro-choice, but profess to be Catholic too, unfortunately. I'm not usually in favor of such measures, but I don't think I'd shed a tear if the Church actually excommunicated them.  They probably won't, as it would be a gigantic shit show, but I'd say they've earned it.
While I am nonreligious, I agree with your statement. A church and its members should strive to have a consistent view on what is moral or immoral.
Ireland has also had a major influx in the cities (including Dublin) of Europeans with vastly different values coming into the country for decades. It goes to show that values of the immigrant can change the country. And maybe that’s a case against taking in Islamic refugees, but it could also be a case for letting in Catholic immigrants. Part of the reason Ronnie Reagan chose amnesty was because he figured the religious base would expand with them.
Most immigrants in Ireland are from far more devoutly Catholic countries like Poland and the Phillippeans. Also even rural Ireland voted like 60% in favor.
I think it depends on the city, but when I was in Dublin, there were a lot of foreign nationals and they were all pretty progressive. This was in the tech sector, so maybe my sampling was biased.
Culturally Catholic. Hell, most Catholics I know are pro-abortion. It's an odd disconnect. Do you know anything about the Catholic faith? Come on now. To murder is perhaps one of the worst sins.
Ireland used to be way more Catholic but they have had really strict abortion laws for a long time BASED on the Church’s opposition to it. Hence, the fight right now over their abortion laws.
Not a bad idea
Can we at least say “illegal immigrants”?

I hate it when people use this argument(one of the worst ones coming after "the fetus isn't a human organism), because it is untrue. Let me give an example. I have $20 to spend on Chips and Cookies. I initially plan on spending $10 on IChipsand $10 on Cookies. Now, however, the government gives me $10. They make me a deal. They tell me: "This $10 cannot be spent on chips." Okay. I can do that. So now I have $20 for whatever I decide to plan, and $10 locked to NOT chips.I can now change my spending plans. Instead of $10 cookies, $10 chips, I go with $15 chips, $15 cookies. This time, however, I take the $15 for chips directly from my free $20, and just use the Gov $10 shifted to cookies. At no point in time did government money directly go to fund my chips. All $10 of government spending is ONLY for cookies. But due to the fungibility of money, the government basically paid for the chips.
And if you tipped a waitress who then used that money to get an abortion you funded an abortion the same way. Money is fungible, but there isn't anything you can do besides limit direct funding, because basically everything indirectly funds everything else.
What matters is foreknowledge. If I knew the waitress was going to use my tip for an abortion, I have the option to not tip her. On the flipside, we know Planned Parenthood performs abortions. We also know that they receive taxpayer money- and you are required to pay taxes or you will receive punishment.  So we are knowingly funding them and their abortions, even if indirectly. Do you mind if I ask you a few additional questions?
Go for it. my point is that we all fund everything indirectly, so it's a meaningless point. Would you actually not tip a waitress because she got an abortion? Or what if your OB/GYN volunteered a few days a week at PP, would you not pay them for their services?
No it's not, my original point was debunking the Title IX crap I didn't say that. If she is having an abortion due to financial pressure, I would help her out if I could, so that she could choose life(and afterwards- grieving, etc) Also you completely missed my point on foreknowledge. Tipping someone and paying someone for their services is two different things, just a heads up. For me personally, I would feel uncomfortable funding someone who did abortion work, so I would likely find a new ob/gyn instead. Comments: A homeless shelter. This homeless shelter is known for doing other things such as killing their residents 38% of the time. Would you support government funding? same homeless shelter supposedly also prevents homeless people in the streets from getting killed. Ever heard of an FQHC?
If the homeless shelter is providing the services that the government is paying it to provide then it should be funded. The murder thing would be an entirely separate issue. If I hire some guy to paint my house, and it turns out he's a rapist, I can't just not pay him because of that, they are completely separate issues. If the government is going to provide funds for X then then as long as the entity qualifies for those funds then their shouldn't be a problem. I'd imagine murdering people would disqualify a homeless shelter from getting funding. I get that it isn't where you would donate your money, but I don't see how you can expect the government to disqualify PP from being able to get any funding on the grounds that it also provides another completely legal medical service. Also it's not a great idea to use murder in an analogy like that, I realize that you consider them the same, but there is a difference between something that is universally condemned and illegal everywhere to something that is often legal and plenty of people think it's completely fine. Obviously I don't want homeless shelters killing people, if they were killing people they would be shut down for doing illegal activity, abortion isn't illegal so it isn't the same. A better example would be something like a religious homeless shelter, I think religion is dumb, and don't really think the government should fund it, but if some religious organization is proving the services that we feel deserve funding then I don't have a problem with that all. And yes I know what a fqhc is.
There is no constitutional basis for our federal government to support such organizations, regardless of what their mission is, or how much the public agrees with that support. You can still report him to the police. And I don't see what this example has to do with indirect funding. Are you saying that he uses the money to open a rape house? You seem to be forgetting that it is the taxpayers, not the government, paying for X. And that  by paying for Planned Parenthood, they allow PP to place funds where the money that goes towards abortion could be placed. It seems obvious to me that changing the funding to those FQHCs I mentioned earlier, we could get the same services done that PP preform without the abortions. "But" PP is not needed for this. Like at all With more than 10x the number of clinics, it seems obvious to me that shifting PP's funding elsewhere (to people who do useful medical stuff without hurting anyone else while they do it) would be easy. Are you saying that if a company does something wrong, but it also does other good things, it should be funded with no repercussions at all? I didn't say murder, I said killing. Are you saying that if something is legal, it is morally permissible? But that's not even true. PP has been complicit in multiple sex abuse cases, source, and child molestation is currently (and will hopefully stay that way) illegal. Also you seem to be forgetting that these refunding things can and do happen to make something harder to do without making it illegal. That's a red herring. And a case actually could be made against funding. Where is your source that states organizations must receive funding for everything they do unless they are doing something explicitly illegal? What is your case against switching PP funding to FQHCs?
General welfare, it doesn't have to, but it can. But whether or not there are abortions isn't really a concern of the government, as that is a legal medical procedure, it doesn't really make sense to me how they could discriminate against something like that. I am saying it is legal because it is morally permissible. To the extent that anyone committed a crime they should be punished. And if it is systemic enough, that could be grounds to lose funding. I didn't say they must receive funding, I am saying if the people decide that we want to fund some service, like homeless shelters or womens health clinics, then all entities that provide that service in a qualified manner should have an equal shot at getting that funding. to the extent that they do the same thing that PP gets funding for they should have an equal opportunity to get that funding. My guess would be that they aren't as good at lobbying for it.
Then what's all this about how PP "should" be funded? Why should the government care about a parent who flushes her child down the toilet because she isn't ready for a child now? You didn't answer my question. Why can't PP's funding go to a clinic that does what PP does without also hurting other human beings? Then explain why it is morally permissible. You specifically said "If the homeless shelter is providing the services that the government is paying it to provide then it should be funded." Which essentially means if someone is doing what you pay them to do, it should also receive funding from people who may or may not want to fund that service. If that's the case, why not fund it yourself? Also, you didn't respond to my comment on how PP has covered up child rape in the past. Shouldn't that be proof that they are not practicing service in a qualified manner? Not all "entities that provide service" deserve funding. Just because something is legal doesn't mean everyone needs to fund it You haven't explained why abortion is morally permissible yet, and you've already said you don't think it's permissible due to legality. So explain. Are you serious? With more then 10x the number of clinics, it seems like they could pick up the pace pretty quickly if PP were to be shut down or defunded.
Hey, SarcasticAce, just a quick heads-up:recieve is actually spelled receive. You can remember it by e before i.Have a nice day! The parent commenter can reply with 'delete' to delete this comment.

The replies to that tweet defending planned parenthood...unbelievable. PP can do no wrong in these ppls eyes.
Planned Parenthood is their Church and abortion is their sacrament.
Separating children from their families since 1916. Get on our level, Trump!
So I've always heard a lot of pro-choicers say that in countries where abortion was made legal, the amount of abortions remained the same or decreased following legalization of the procedure.I haven't seen any sources to this claim nor have I found many statistics that support this.  For example, wikipedia lists legal abortions in the US as going up since legalization, but it apparently only counts legal induced abortions pre Wade v Roe and not illegal ones.Is there any conclusive data on the matter?
Check out this post:https://www.reddit.com/r/prolife/comments/6ka453/studies_showing_that_restricting_abortion/
This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.

He's absolutely right, it is truly appauling. It's disturbing how here (in Western Europe) you're looked upon as a dangerous nutjob when you say that you think aborting children with handicaps is wrong, while aborting a baby with down syndrome is viewed as brave and the right thing to do.
The perfect answer for that is: "So you dismembered a disabled baby halfway through his gestation. Truly heroic. We dodged a bullet there, he could have doomed the entire world."

I'm not denying I'm religious. I'm denying my arguments are religious. A human life is valuable, period. Because if we start making exceptions, then where do you put your foot down? If your value as a person depends on your cell count (size), then where's the absolute limit we can't cross? I'll answer that myself: There won't be one. Because once you trivialise human life, then no one has an inherent value anymore. If it depends on your age, then your value as a human being would increase with the years, and anyone younger than you would be fair game for anything you want to do to them. If value increases with capabilities, then you are looking to a world where taking advantage of the less fortunate/capable is allowed. Say, a genius engineer could do anything to his 90 IQ blind housewife, since she depends on him. Even if he was the one who blinded her (he was already smarter than her, so in this world, he's more human than her). Once you open the door for legal abuse of the weak, you will soon find out you are in that group. We call this "the law of the jungle". It also reminds me of Highlander: "there can only be one". Men cutting each other's heads for some obscure reason until only the best one remained alive. Now please answer this question: Do you really want to live in a world that puts a price tag on human life? Age: unborn - $free/legal to kill Age: 2 seconds - $precious/illegal to kill

Some people believe that all lives, regardless of age, are of equal worth. Yes, there is an expectation for older people to lay down their lives for younger people. This isn't true in every part of the world. But, that does not mean that the objective value of the 90 year old man is less than that of the 5 year old. That is why his sacrifice would be meaningful! He gives up his valuable life for the 5 year old. Value is not measured in how much time you have left on this Earth. That would be ridiculous because we don't know when we'll die. How would we possibly quantify our worth by that standard? You bring up a scenario of a pregnant woman vs a non-pregnant woman. See the "Trolley Problem" please. Would you actively doom one person to save multiple? There's no easy answer to that and I see that as separate to the abortion debate unless you are asking whether or not the fetus counts as a person in that scenario. Or are you supposing that a women who is pregnant is more valuable than one who is not even if the fetus has no worth by itself? Finally, you mentioned the classic "who would you save: an already born child or a fetus in a tube?" This scenario only deals with how humans percieve others and is completely subjective. History shows that how people percieve others around them can lead to great evils. It doesn't ask anything about the objective worth of a human being. If humans have objective worth from the moment they are conceived then there is no change in value between a fetus and an already born child. As hard as that is to accept...
The universal tendency of older individuals to make their lives secondary to the lives of the young (which is observed in a huge multitude of other species, too) is actually a really good example of why abortion is an unnatural and disordered. This person's example of the 90 year old man in a boat actually works against his own implication. :)
Yeah, my suggestion was unrelated to the Trolley Problem. I was suggesting that it would be almost universal that the life of the pregnant woman would be valued over the same woman were she not pregnant. I'd even argue even if she wasn't noticeably pregnant, she would still be put on the lifeboat. I guess what I'm claiming is that even those who see a fetus as a ball of cells, would likely see added worth to a woman who is pregnant given the scenario. I disagree here. I think there is added value in life depending on how much time you potentially have left. I do not feel the worth of a 90 year old is the same as a 5 year old is the same as a 3-day old embryo. Can I ask what guides you in thinking objective worth is same for all humans? Is that a religious tenet you hold? Can the worth/value of humans depend on how their life is lived (a murderer for example)? I feel if you can make worth judgments based on how someone has lived, then the extension to differentially valuing life based on potential life lived is not that crazy of a claim.
Yeah I'm a Christian so I believe all people have the same value. A murderer brought to justice does not lose his worth as a human being regardless of what punishment or treatment he gets. To cut to the point, the disagreement I have with your position is that people should not decide who is worth more than who. That line of thinking has led to terrible things. These scenarios you bring up are all based on people's subjective judgement. So the other guy can absolutely argue in good faith if he sincerely believes that a person's worth does not change even with age as a big factor.
Thanks for the back-and-forth. Nice to have a conversation with others of a differing epistemology. I agree my starting claim about a good-faith argument on the original reply was probably a bit too strong.
Thanks to you too. I don't get involved in many conversations on Reddit but I'm always glad when I talk with people like you. No worries about your earlier reply. I just thought I'd give my two cents in hope for a good discussion. And it was good!
The pregnant woman also likely can't swim as well as the non-pregnant woman, her chances of survival are reduced. You cannot hear a child that undeveloped scream in horrifying agony and people tend to have higher empathy for children, there's actually research showing that the reason babies look the way they do is because it elicits attention and empathy from adults which was an evolutionary advantage for obvious reasons.. Nothing you've suggested means one is worth more than the other, it just shows that people are biological machines and that they can handle taking into account circumstantial information.
Happy cake day!
So do you also think that a human life can not be valued more than any other?
I think a human life always has intrinsic value, but the value can certainly be amplified or reduced. A serial rapist is certainly worth less than an innocent child. Where do you draw the line of 'okay they have a different value so I can kill them right?' is the question, I think the only consistent way to do so is to base it on whether or not they're a direct threat to another individuals right to life.
But if people don’t have the same value why do babies have any at all? What have they done to deserve that?
Because as I said: You don't have to do ANYTHING to have the right to life, you are intrinsically valuable because you are human. If you become a mass-murderer, or a genocidal dictator, or other form of trying to violently take someone's life you surrender the right to your own in the process. If you go the "You have to earn the right to life" route you end up in a very dark dystopian place where the poor are forcibly executed along with seniors, the physically unwell, the sick, etc.

Your moral value isn't something you earn by doing certain deeds. It's something you have just by the virtue of existing.

This is not even a proper argument, you know? Ih human rights are universal and inalienable (which they are), then they apply to everyone and can't be taken away without just cause. And no, inconveniencing your mother isn't a just cause to take away your right to life.
I'm not religious, I'm legally blind is it wrong that I don't want people like myself to get torn apart in the womb cause they're not perfect? Why should anyone get to look at my DNA and say "You know what? Fuck this guy."?
I don’t have a personal problem with you. And no no one would go “fuck this guy” for in my opinion at that stage i wouldn’t consider you a guy. Plus why do you exist right now? Probably because you were wanted.
I had my XY chromosome pairs decided from conception, was a guy from that moment on. Nope, she abused all her children and I was taken by the state and then adopted, I was wanted yes but not by my birth mother. I have the right to life just the same.
Because human beings have proven to be truly remarkable creatures. Do you value any human beings? Are you saying that the more developed a human beings is the more valuable they are? i really do not understand your question?
The idea that it is ok to kill someone because of their physical traits/ability is sadly much, much older and more insidious than Nazism. But he's right.
It has its roots in progressivism. The earliest I know of is Margret Sanger (founder of planned Parenthood) wanting to use abortion to curtail the black population.
True. But I mean it goes back even before that and beyond modern western culture/politics. In ancient Rome the patriarch of the family decided if a new baby would be allowed to live or die. Likewise in Sparta, except it was decided by the government rather than the father. Before European influence, some cultures in Canada and Alaska abandoned elderly, ill or disabled members of the tribe to die. Today in China girls are killed both before and after birth because they are undesired. In Tamil Nadu there is a current practice of killing elderly who are a burden. As long as there have been humans and evil, people have killed innocents because they are no longer desirable or convenient. We act like we're beyond such savagery today in the west, but we've industrialized it.
The industrialization part is key. The murder of the weak is always a tragedy, but our modern methods allow us to do it on an unprecedented scale. The Nazis were pioneers in streamlining the societal murder machine.
Well yeah, I was talking about abortion as the method of killing. I've found some Bible verses about ripping pregnant women open after a conquest of another people. No idea if the women survived though.
I would guess it's not likely.

Walks like a duck. Quacks like a duck. Fun fact, she put one of her first clinics in Harlem and most of PP's clinics are in majority black neighborhoods. Must be a duck. She can say she wasn't for abortion as a form of birth control all she wants.  The facts are what she did had direct consequences on black communities.  In my view she is no better than any Nazi working in a concentration camp even if she didn't directly participate in abortions.  She turned a blind eye to evil when she had the power to fo otherwise. You don't have to take my word for it though.  Here are her own words: She knew for what she was fighting for.
Because she felt like they were in the most need of birth control. She explicitly explains why in her writings. And what effect was that? They had less kids? She clearly didn't if she was actively circulating anti abortion pamphlets. All of those quotes are out of context. She is specifically talking about how she doesn't want people to think that because it isn't true. So she is having black ministers work to assure people it isn't true. She's saying that the logic of abortion to women is sound, that they want to be able to control their family size and the best way to do that isn't with abortion. She's saying that large families are immoral because so many infants are dying in those large families. They might as well have just killed the kid because its probably going to die anyway. If you were the 12th kid in a family you had a 60% of dying before you turned one. Birth Control? I love how you lot downvote me but can't explain why I'm wrong.
I remember in history class the teacher said they'd abandon the "defective" children in the wilderness, I didn't much like the idea of that.
It should be pointed out these children are almost certainly destined to do some kind of manual labor, either as a soldier or farming and they also don't have access to modern medicine and science. This is a society which already has a high infant mortality rate. It does make sense that people would consider abandoning children who would be seen as a burden on society when they could be caring for other children who wouldn't be a burden. You have to remember a lot of what we know about the Spartans is exaggerated by later authors and as the Spartans have a reputation for being, well spartan, it does make sense people would attribute these ideas to them even if they didn't really practice it.
It's still better than being dead, the value of a life isn't determined by how modern the times are when they're born, if they can still live some form of life on their own then it seems unfair, I may be invoking compassion afforded to me by my modern life style I suppose, I can't judge the past as I wasn't there but I don't like the idea of killing people because they're inconvenient. When times are hard humanity gets dark, something akin to "we're all animals when we're hungry and there's no more power" which I'm probably wildly misquoting, although we all like to believe it's not like that. What surprises me is our capacity to do awful things even when times are good.
There's inconvenient, and then there's all your other kids going hungry because you need to care for one with a disability. You might be getting sucked into the narrative of something like 300. Where they kill anyone who wasn't capable of being a warrior, which I doubt ever really happened. But we will never really know will we? Its tricky to judge people 2 and a half thousand years ago when we only have whispers of what the may or may not have done. When times are hard humanity gets dark, something akin to "we're all animals when we're hungry and there's no more power" which I'm probably wildly misquoting, although we all like to believe it's not like that. What surprises me is our capacity to do awful things even when times are good. When there is no food on the table there is only one problem. When there is food on the table there are many problems. I think that's why the nazis are so shocking, their actions were never necessary. It wasn't a choice between killing and starving. They were chaotic and evil.
I've never watched 300, but sex is a choice, why do we act like human beings have no capacity to reason? Women continually and repeatedly seem to be immune to responsibility for some reason, if you have too many children chances are you are at fault (excluding Rape obviously). Was it really chaos? Seemed like pretty organized evil to me.
Are we still talking about ancient Greece here?
Are you implying that the ancient Greeks had no idea sex caused birth? Because I'm fairly certain they had that figured out. The man and the woman engaging in sex almost certainly knew where babies come from. Edit: I mean unless you have sex and then you get pregnant and go "Well holy shit, how did that happen? Was it something I ate?" it's impossible for me to see how an excuse possibly exists here.

It does make sense. It's just monstrous.
Which is why it wouldn't have been conducted systematically by a state. It happens often in modern times, in places like India and china. So I don't doubt it would have happened all the time by families.
I don't doubt that either, unfortunately.
It was quite popular before WWII, then Nazis went and ruined it for everyone. /s
I wrote some further analysis including some words of a Down Syndrome advocate and Catholic teaching. I was going to post it separately but figure a comment here might be better so I don't create multiple similar threads.
It's about time this pope said something in line with his religion.
He says a lot that never gets reported and he gets misrepresented all the time.
I get the feeling the pope knows what he's talking about.
While I am obviously pro-life, just because someone you despise does something does not make it inherently wrong. Though it is pretty compelling.
Now let me say, I personally agree with Roe v. Wade as I think it allows for the best window of possibility while disallowing what is essentially baby murder due to the whole time restriction which was five months if I'm remembering correctly. Honestly though, arguing for aborting children because they're disabled just makes me sick. One of the nicest people I ever knew growing up was a man named Steven, he and I met in elementary school, played baseball and hiked together all the time. He had Down syndrome, and the fact that some people would advocate for exterminating someone's life just because of that is just appalling.

That’s simply not the case.  There is a huge amount of media disinformation going on surrounding him. The Pope is absolutely pro-life and has always been.
Lots of people care and as far as i know he has always been consistent with this issue so I got one am glad he said this.

If you doubt this then read a little about Margaret Sanger.

Wow, I love this whole website! Thanks for this!


Well he's not really pro life.
This is about the only good thing he's done, which is to say, his pro-life actions. Unfortunately, when he gets everyone red beaten in the upcoming elections, the benefits of his actions will be short lived. I don't actually know if he's really pro-life or just pandering to his base, but I'd take it... if he wasn't an impending disaster for the movement in the long run. Hopefully he get a chance to pick another Supreme Court justice so that we'll at least get something out of this when the reaction to him causes us to be back out in the political wilderness.
Wasn't that meant to happen in 2016 as well? We were in a far worse position in 2016 (lots of GOP Senators were underwater in approval ratings and Democrats were gaining on them). We ended up only losing 2 seats in the Senate (Illinois was always going to go blue though)
The Blues weren't motivated in 2016.  No one was, really.  Republicans have considerably better turnout in our demographics. Don't get me wrong, motivation is still a problem, but no one outright hated the other Republican candidates like they do Trump.  Hell, even I dislike him and he's the only pro-life candidate who probably could have won in 2016 as president.
A fair few were in the 20's for their approval ratings. They still ended up winning.
Well, it's always good to be hopeful, but I wouldn't count on it. Certainly, some Republicans will win no matter what, but will they maintain their majority?  I can't say.
I think the Senate map is just so good we really can't lose a majority. And with Bill Nelson's floundering campaign he probably won't keep Florida blue.

At least he doesn't think they should be able to be murdered with impunity. That's more than we can say for some, unfortunately.

Ah I forgot the entire history of slavery wasn't wrong because it was legal. Thanks for reminding me that changing the legality of something changes what it actually is. By your logic we could pass a bill tomorrow legalizing rape and rape wouldn't be called rape anymore, that's really really backwards.
I agree. Hunting is super fucked up, and anyone who genuinely enjoys it probably has some psychopathic tendencies.
No hunting is not an issue unless you're killing humans. Animals are not human, they have no human rights, shooting an animal is perfectly fine, I highly enjoy deer myself (Makes great summer sausage). You actually just tried to argue that nearly all of humanity for most of our time on this earth was "psychopathic" because they wanted to feed their families, that's a pretty fundamentally stupid thing to say. If you can't tell the difference between humans and animals then YOU need serious psychological help immediately.
Humans are animals. Or are you one of those evolution deniers?
Humans are animals yes, but not all animals are human. Saying "a human is an animal" while a true statement doesn't change the fact that no animal can compare to a human being - all other animals are inferior to human life. Again, if you can't tell the difference between a human being and a deer then again, you need serious  mental help. Seriously, get help you sound like one of those PETA protestors who act like they've taken one too many hammer hits to the head - there's a reason PETA is a laughing stock.
Abortion is illegal in many countries actually so it depends really. Although murder can also be defined as unjust killing, which abortion falls into.
No, that's the merely legal definition of murder. There's also a moral definition.
Criminals do not go to Jail with their children. This is not news. Stop believing everything you hear it's embarrassing. This has happened under literally every single presidency including Obama, this is not a Trump thing, it is a border security thing. These people are criminals, they are using their children as anchor babies, if you don't want to be separated from your child perhaps you shouldn't use your children in crimes. Immigration may be "ripping" (separating them because the mothers are criminals, and prison is no place for a child) these children from their mothers (criminal) arms but they're not ripping them limb from limb, crushing their skulls with forceps and scraping out the remains.
Please list ANY other crime in which women are told "We won't separate you from your child when we take you to prison". Countless black men were separated from their children under Clinton's policies, many under garbage policy, I saw no outcry about "ripping babies from their fathers arms" then. It's fine that you dislike Trump, it's your right to do so, but quit with the faux outrage it's embarrassing.
Seeking asylum isn't a crime. And not in the bleeding-heart nonsense "no human is illegal" way. The right to seek asylum is codified in international law and signed and ratified by the US decades ago.
I note that while this separation seems to also be happening with those presenting themselves for asylum in compliance with US law, the separation of children from parents is generally happening when they are not following the process, rather than for all asylum seekers. They should not be separating those who are legally seeking asylum and that needs to be corrected immediately. On the other hand, being an "asylum seeker" when crossing the border illegally is merely a stated motive for an illegal action.  The US does have process for those who wish to properly seek asylum and those processes are proper under international law. That is not to say that I am not disgusted and annoyed by the action Trump is taking even in regard to illegal aliens.  But in their case, one could argue that the law permits this action under the same principle that separates parents from children for other illegal activities.
You don't have the right to enter a country illegally, we are not talking about Asylum seekers who enter the right way (all though we should turn away essentially all of them as well, until we've remove the countless millions currently in our country illegally) we are talking about criminals who have no right to cross our borders.

First off, even if you accept the author's premise that abortion will never be outlawed, that doesn't change the fact that there have been several prolife laws passed that have reduced abortion, that Democrats would overturn if given the power. Also, making abortion free and paid by taxpayers is a key prochoice Democratic goal, as well as increasing the number of clinics. There are plenty of studies showing that both of these are highly likely to increase the number of abortions. The author takes it as a given that increased welfare programs reduce abortion, but provides no evidence. I can tell you, I personally have looked for a study showing effects of welfare spending on abortion and have not found more than just modest effects that tend to be inconsistent. So the author's premise is based on flawed claims and some factual inaccuracies.
Welfare is not a good thing, once welfare enters a neighborhood it never leaves, it has systematically destroyed black communities and replace many fathers with the state. These arguments are flawed, they rely on the presumption that welfare is the answer it is not, saying "I will protect the right to life" in no way depends on right to tax the hard working middle class out of existence and create a socialist state.
Yeah this doesn’t add up.  It’s reliant on a false premise that these excessive welfare programs and artificially high minimum wage actually help the poor.  They don’t.
Although it is clear that there is only one acceptable answer to abortion, its eradication for anything other than medical emergencies, I agree with the Church's two pronged approach to improve services as well. Politically it is easier to make the case that children should be saved if we can provide for them, and certainly that is a good cause in any event. But, the argumentation that we should just give up and not even try and make abortion illegal is not acceptable.  I can accept that it may be difficult to make that happen in the short term, but it isn't a compromise we can make. It reminds me of the old Star Trek episode where they reduced the casualty rate of war between two planets by choosing a certain number of people to be executed by lot on a regular basis. Those two planets, over time, likely killed more people than would have died if they'd fought the battles and resolved the war.  And even though they had relative peace and prosperity, the price of that was killing thousands of people regularly to maintain it. Our material comforts and advances are bankrupt if they are made on the backs of an increasing amount of dead who have been sacrificed for that purpose.
I've kinda come to accept that abortion is probably going to be legal through out the world and ita going to stay that way, the question is why? So you think the public could be won by reasonable secular arguments? Do you think it has to do with the fact that valueing fetuses has been associated with religion?
People have always been really good at dehumanizing others whenever it's convenient. Abortion is really convenient if you completely ignore any serious question about what the unborn is and whether it has human rights. Pro-abortion ideology descends from the "progressive" eugenics movement of the early 20th century, filtered through the sexual revolution, which attempted to split sexuality from its overall context. This meant that any results of sex (such as children) are suddenly treated as incidental. Society has accepted abortion by thinking about it as entirely about the mother, and not the child. Even a lot of anti-abortion rhetoric is about the mother, encouraging her to make the right "choice" or shaming her for getting an abortion, etc. Pro-lifers need to work on getting everyone to confront what the unborn actually is, rather than sidestepping this key issue. I remain hopeful that legal abortion will end in the future. More advanced technology will make viability occur even earlier, and there may be more alternatives to abortion. Also, societies have occasionally managed to address their great evils. Slavery, some genocides, etc.
I'm going to be the pessimist here and say that it probably will never end. They still make the same BS arguments even if the baby is viable.

Because I have empathy and care for my fellow human beings, it has nothing to do with religion. (as a matter of fact, I'm transitioning out of a religion right now)

How long should someone live before we have empathy on them? How much does someone have to affect the world before we have empathy on them?

I don’t know you and don’t really value you at all, would that make it right for me to take an action that results in your death?
Well yes if no one else cared about me? What i am saying does not take older people into account... because someone will care about me or be affected by my death. Life isn’t holy. Life has no meaning. And there is no right or wrong. We make these terms up because it helps our society. And we help our society because we have chosen that living a happy life is better than living a terrible life. In my eyes of course i don’t want to die i think there are things i want to achieve but at the same time i don’t care at all because i don’t think anything happens after death.
Dude, you're basically commenting on /r/caringabouttheunborn and arguing that the unborn can be killed because no one cares about them.
So if i kill an orphaned newborn on an island bymyself, you dont think thats wrong?

Idk man, your Hitleresque arguments in this thread make it pretty clear that you contribute nothing to society. Does that mean I should be allowed to murder you?
Well yes if that was the case. But right now you are the jerk here. Care to explain what is wrong with it being hitleresque? Like of course i ain’t hitler i don’t support what he did, so please explain to me what that should mean?
People's rights shouldn't be contingent on whether others care about them... Do we really have to explain this? You can make an argument about the baby not deserving rights (though obviously we would argue against that) but you can't just ignore the issue because "no one cares about the baby." None of our main arguments are religious except to the extent that the concept of inherent human rights and dignity is religious. I think the contraception discussion in this thread is closer to religious (though more philosophical IMO), but those are more musings about why abortion is legal and not arguments against abortion.
Why shouldn’t rights be contigent of peoples opinion? I can see it’s a little stretched but believing in human rights is a “religion” because fundamentally there is no right or wrong. Therfore my point being that babies which no one wants or cares about are nothing worth. And okay if you care about the baby go take care of it but don’t place that burden on the “mothers”...
"Why do you care about spousal abuse? It's not your life. If you care about spousal abuse, go take care of it, but don't place that burden on the abusers." Also, moral relativism is self-defeating.
i care about spousal abuse because they have more impact on the world i guess? Why would i care more about a baby? Sorry but my first language isn’t english and i don’t understand what you are saying. :)
Your English is quite good! Learning a second language is very difficult, but I didn't find anything grammatically wrong with your posts. To explain what I meant, "moral relativism" is the philosophy that there's not an agreed-upon "truth" when it comes to ethics. But this philosophy contradicts itself in proposing that it itself is true. I was pointing out that your post seemed to be asking "Who's to say what's wrong?" when most of society would agree that killing a baby is wrong. Would you not agree that infanticide (killing a born baby) is morally wrong?
Sorry it took some time until i responded but the downvotes make it so i have to wait 7 minutes to post comments. And thanks! Where i live (Denmark) we learn english througout school. :) And to answer your question. I don’t know if its contradicting but i would never ever myself kill a baby (props to thoose which have the guts). But yes i don’t think there is anything wrong about it. I for example don’t believe that anything has a “soul”. To understand my viewpoint imagine this: You have a choice: kill a live human baby or kill a purely a.i. baby that was produced by machines and human technology. 90% of people would without a doubt kill the robotic baby “without a soul” but why is one “life” more worth than any other?
Generally speaking, most countries' entire system of laws and ethics are built on the foundation that human life is valuable and should be protected, particularly when those in power have the ability to protect those who aren't. It's also agreed upon by nearly everyone that humanity's greatest tragedies in history involve situations where those in power treated certain groups of people as lesser beings to justify doing what they wanted to them. In other words, minimizing the value of human life has historically been used to justify atrocities and holocausts. An AI baby would not be an actual life; it would not feel, think, grow or develop in the manner that the rest of humanity has.

There is a waiting list for years to adopt a newborn baby so it’s 100% false to say no one wants it. I’ve personally offered to adopt 5 babies from women who were getting abortions but unfortunately they all went through with it.
Well good on you. But again its just a baby however absurd that may sound.
Because that leads to atrocity. Not to mention that the public can be easily manipulated and it sets dangerous precedent for goverments. Say for example that the majority overturn freedom of assembly and claimed only certain groups have it. It sets a dangerous precedent because the government could then go whatever they want without backlash because theyd have the power to censor anyone that opposed them. There are certain rights that simply shouldnt be in the publics hand.
English isn’t my main language. So sorry but i don’t understand what you are saying?
I'm a pro-choice atheist, but - firstly, there is such a thing as right and wrong. And secondly, this isn't a good position. What if nobody cared about you? Would it then be right to kill you?
Yes if nobody cared about me AND i had no chance at impacting the world, then of course i am worthless. Humans are just atoms that interect in a very interesting way.
That's really something you believe about yourself? So you think you only have a right to live if either someone cares about you, or you can impact the world?
Well it's not like i am depressed or something if that's what you think. As i said people are just atoms interacting in an interesting way. It is mostly hypothetical as very few people have no chance to impact the world or aren't cared for by others.
That's an incomplete way of thinking about it (even though, unfortunately, it's a way that a lot of people would share). You can say that people are only worth anything when they can positively influence the world, or somebody cares about them (I inserted the world positively, because an ability to negatively influence the world won't add value to someone who would be worthless without it). Then there would be three problems: If people aren't, in their own right, worth anything, who is the world being improved for? So the ends (the people) would be put beneath the means (the world being improved). It's much better (and less prone to changing people into monsters) to switch the order and think that it's the people who have the value, and the world being improved is just something that has value because it helps the people. Why is people's caring valuable? If people are worthless, why does it matter if someone starts caring about them? Why should human caring in particular be the thing that changes someone from worthless to worthwhile? And what about when the carer isn't cared for by anyone, and can't influence the world for the better? You can kill the carer, and now the person being cared for is worthless too, so you can kill them too. :) You can improve on that by deciding that people are valuable in themselves, and that's the reason why you should care about what they feel and what they want. Properties (like colors, sounds, right and wrong) exist, because humans call certain clusters of fundamental physical properties certain way. There is no outside standard that would prescribe that improving the world is objectively important, or that being cared about is objectively valuable. So since you have to decide what particular properties you're going to care about, you can put the value into people themselves, and work up from there. (I personally believe that people are computations, not organisms, but the point is the same.)

I think you'd like to read some of these blogposts - they're about morality in (trans)humanism (more generally, about morality in a naturalistic universe).

I care about the baby so...
How do you think a pro-choice person would have answered OP’s question?
Implicitly or explicitly, they would answer by saying that it is one more step up on the ladder toward the utopia of absolutized individual autonomy. It is liberalism taken to its logical, albeit murderous, extreme.
I think that's bit short sighted. I think somewhat explains the current push for it, but abortion had been around probably forever, it isn't something new that society just started doing, I'd say the push against it is the exception, and that is driven largely by specific puritanical or religious beliefs.
Well I do think they would mention the right to privacy and bodily autonomy, but ascribing to them some view of “utopia of absolutized individual autonomy” is a bit excessive.
That is what their view amounts to.
what do you understand “utopia of absolutized individual autonomy” to mean?
Break down the meaning of each of those words and you'll have your answer.
But I asked “what do you understand...”  I’m asking for your personal subjective interpretation of utopia of absolutized individual autonomy. what do you understand “utopia of absolutized individual autonomy” to mean?
I mean exactly what I said. I can't distill the meaning any further past the definitions of each of those words.
In what other respects could individuals exercise their autonomy under this utopia that they cannot today?  Please be specific.
As a prochoice person, I think secular arguments are the way forward for your cause, also embracing good sex and relationship education plus investment in highly effective contraception such as IUDS. Both sides should work together to reduce unwanted pregnancies and abortion.
I’d say that the increasingly widespread use of contraceptives has led to people, in their heads, separating sex from its natural consequence, which is pregnancy and a child. Instead, fertility is considered almost a chronic disease that needs to be treated with a daily pill, and if you somehow do get pregnant, that’s only an unfortunate exception, which would then be “treated” by abortion. In my view, there’s no way to separate the problem that our society faces with abortion today from the mindset that has come from contraception. It’s only because of this mindset that abortion is considered a remotely normal or acceptable thing.
While I don't think it's wrong to prevent pregnancy (I'm currently on the mini pill) I agree with what you're saying.
I think a lot of it has to do with the fact that sympathizing with a fetus/embryo is a bit too abstract an idea for most people -- it's far easier to sympathize with the woman, which is why pro-choice campaigns usually completely ignore the question of what the unborn is, and focus only on the possible suffering of the woman. Now that's not to say that pro-choicers never address the question of the unborn, they do address it in debates with pro-lifers, but generally when they advocate their side to the public at large they don't bring it up. Second, I agree with what a lot of people are saying that a lot of the philosophy behind the sexual revolution (which started around the 1950s generally) basically demanded that abortion become legal. Now in the decades before the 1960s, sex before marriage was becoming more and more accepted, even if the public and media were reluctant to admit it. However, particularly between the 40s and 60s, the ideas of Freud, who believed that sexual repression was basically the cause of all social ills, were widely popular. If people essentially will go nuts if they aren't able to fulfill their sexual desires, then it makes sense to eliminate any possible barrier that one may have to having (consensual) sex -- whether that be stigma, social norms, or fear of procreation. Even though most of Freud's ideas are now considered outdated and even unscientific, the sexual repression idea is still widely believed and I think still widely influential. I think this is a lot of the reason why many consider sex without procreation to be a basic human right. On top of that, Population Bomb type hysteria about overpopulation was a large contributor to legalizing abortion and still remains a reason why many seek to legalize abortion in developing countries, although somewhat lessened compared to past decades.
I remeber a youtuber by the name of the distributist said something similar, you should check it out, its pretty intresting. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5wuBQa86nj0&t=2511s
Hey, ABlackKidOnTheNet, just a quick heads-up:remeber is actually spelled remember. You can remember it by -mem- in the middle.Have a nice day! The parent commenter can reply with 'delete' to delete this comment.
Neo-progressivism and the sexual revolution of the 1960s forward have done a great deal to spread the idea that the primary purpose of sex is for pleasure. Sex is just about the most enjoyable activity available to humans, and to those of us who have no reason (religious or otherwise) to abstain from sexual activity, sex has become the meaning of existence. This idea has lead many people to value sex above everything else, which incentivizes them to try and avoid any of the consequences of casual sex. The biggest consequence that requires the most responsibility is unplanned pregnancy. And since sex is the meaning of existence, people should be able to do it as much as they want without having to worry about the repercussions. In my opinion, this is what prompts people to so easily devalue human life.
Abortion protects unlimited no consequences orgasms.
Ultimately, for a number of reasons: The pro-life movement isn't that good at campaigning (speaking as a pro-lifer myself); the practice of showing pictures of dead fetuses is a real vote-killer; I don't personally like the practice since it's an appeal to emotion, particularly an appeal to disgust. Also, as commenters on this thread have already stated, their arguments are sort of positioned around the mother, and what's best for her, when really it should be positioned around the child. The pro-choice movement are deceptive, yet effective. They're masters at pulling appeals to emotion; in the abortion referendum in Ireland, the usual tone was "What if was your daughter/mother?", which was quite an ugly form of direct address, and almost intimidating. They have very provocative, dogmatic slogans, and particularly when it comes to referendums; they know they don't have to actually make a scientific argument, they just go for emotional appeals and mindless platitudes. I think the pro-life movement isn't inherently religious; I've had arguments with people on this issue, and I think the pro-life movement has made genuinely good efforts to distance themselves from the church, but it makes no difference. In Ireland, the vote was dominated by an anger and disgust at the past behaviors of the Catholic Church. I don't think the public can be won back through reasonable secular arguments; particularly with referendums, legislative votes or grassroots campaigns. It would be obviously ideal if they could; but again, it makes no difference to the general public. The key decider in what will change the public's mind is ultimately going to be from an emotional standpoint. Ultimately, I think we've got to be more assertive and dogmatic; at this point, we have little to lose. Don't be afraid to be provocative; it has worked wonders for the pro-choice movement. I still think it is possible we can win the argument, but it requires a radical change in our approach.
Do you think that the prolife side could of won the referendum in Ireland, with different tactics? Most of the prochoice commentators thought that it be a much closer result.
Some of the tactics they eventually got around to using they used way too late; the LoveBoth campaign had a very good campaign called #TooFarForMe, basically an appeal to the voters who didn't like the 8th Amendment but wasn't in favor of abortion on demand either. But that was only in place a week before the referendum, so it was a huge missed opportunity. The result there was supposed to be a lot closer than what it actually predicted; the most reliable polls had it at around 58-42 Repeal, but tilting in the favor of the pro-life side with each poll, but it seemed as if the undecideds all just shifted to Yes. Polls are always wrong in Ireland; but it was a surprise that it shifted in Yes' favor, rather than No's. I think the pro-life side should have been more aggressive; they allowed the pro-choice side to have a monopoly on some of their key issues without offering an effective counter-response. For instance, the pro-choice side emphasized compassion a lot, the pro-life side practically just conceded the point with their response almost. If they were just like, "No, I see what you're trying to do here. Fuck off with your fake compassion.", then I think they would have done better. They needed to be more assertive; they needed better slogans, more powerful arguments, more powerful figures in charge, better leaders. We need a proper grassroots, almost militant type of pro-life activism; we need to be confrontational and fierce, unafraid, a lot of pro-lifers seemed to be afraid of appearing sexist, or evil, or authoritarian. They should have been confident in themselves; that was a real problem as well. At this point, I don't think we've got much left to lose.
Thanks for the response, I  imagine NI will be the next battle ground.
Probably, the fight's already brewing.
Because we no longer accept personal responsibility.
If only i could post memes. It would be a drake clapping gif.
Human greed for starters. We're all human, and as human beings we tend to look towards what's most convenience for us. Countless movements have been pushing a focus on "Me" (see Feminism and the like). I'm not religious, but human nature is something we're going to have to overcome. > So you think the public could be won back by reasonable secular arguments? Yes I do, I can't think of any other issue in human history that has remained as evenly contentious as it is now (We've been at a roughly 50/50 split for ages on this issue), getting Roe v. Wade overturned with strong arguments about Human Rights will definitely help the case. I've had a lot of success in my personal life with pointing out the ways abortion legalizes (even mandates third parties to do so) abuse of preborn children. i.e.: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation-now/2016/05/10/bartenders-must-serve-pregnant-women-alcohol-bars-new-york-city/84182372/ Given the prevalence of FAS as the leader of preventable birth defects this puts people into a corner. Is it "wrong" to cause permanent harm to the child in the womb? If so, how can it be a violation of their rights if they have no rights? This is a great example because most harm done by FAS happens in the earliest stage of the development when the child has no organs to process the alcohol itself.
Its going to be incredibly tough. I honestly dont think we'll win, but a man can dream.
We just have to keep fighting, we have one benefit over the supporters of abortion: We know about human weaknesses and don't rely on them. If we continue getting to the polls - especially this year - and we have a real chance of ending abortion, reducing the number of people who kill their children (it's difficult to convince someone who's done wrong that they were wrong, defense mechanisms in the brain immunize you to it) and promoting pro-life ideals by letting people love their children. If we take the "It's hard, but its' worth it" approach, we will certainly hold out and eventually overcome. We just have to be more persistent, more determined, and more active than our opponents.
I BELIEVE THAT WE WILL WIN!
Oh my lord people.  Contraceptives and their use have prevented untold numbers of unwanted pregnancies hence preventing abortions.   It's not using them, or not using them properly that has caused unwanted pregnancies leading to abortion. I think that organized religion is on the way out in many countries--- of which I don't care.  Abortion should NEVER be about what someone says in some book that many don't believe in.   Abortion arguments should be about scientific facts that can't be denied.  That "Abortion" no matter what you call it, is killing unborn humans--- no matter what you call them. Honestly the biggest win for the Pro Choice movement is dehumanizing babies by calling them fetuses and their murder Abortion.   To some abortion has no more meaning of killing a baby than if they were getting their teeth cleaned.  It's a disconnect, mainly propagated by the ignorance of most people on basic human gestation and human growth and development. We need to educate people, so that they know that these ARE unborn babies from the start, and that very quickly they even look human and aren't some blob of cells that magically turns in to a baby right at 40 weeks, only if you want it to. Pro-life people need to quit thinking like religious pro life people because if the public isn't religious, your religious reasons are a huge negative turn-off and like what some people in this very thread seem to think---- THAT ABORTION IS A SEXUAL CONTROL/SEXUAL FREEDOM ISSUE--- it's not.   In 2018, if contraceptives were actually used properly and in multiple forms (like the pill, condoms and spermicide together) abortion should be a non-issue. I swear to God, neither side of politicians really care about this issue either way.  It's just real good at dividing the average, poor constituents on either side from voting for the other party---despite their best interest.   So, who cares about corporations controlling things, the environment being destroyed, living wages, for profit prisons, 17 years of constant war killing 10's of thousands of brown children in the middle East------ ABORTION!!!!!
In a nutshell: Liberals. Liberals everywhere. See benjbob111's comment for details.
Societies have tolerated abortion because by and large, legal rights do not attach before birth.
Why does birth have any inherent value to begin with? If thats the case why are there restrictions on abortion?
I don’t understand the question.  The best I can do is to say that birth is “inherently valuable” because without it, none of us would be here. In the US, states may regulate post-viability abortions because states have a compelling interest in the potentiality of life; it has nothing to do with any legal right of the unborn.
Let me clarify, why is birth attatched to legal rights? Its not just in the US that abortion has restrictions.
That is how legal systems developed from the earliest western human civilizations.  It’s tied to notions of personhood, which wasn’t recognized until after birth.  You have never heard of any legal challenges claiming rights for the unborn before Roe v. Wade.  There is a reason for that.  The idea that the unborn had no rights was never in controversy until people decided that they didn’t like the outcome of Roe. I can’t really speak to abortion restrictions in other countries without first understanding their legal systems.
Well abortion was illegal in certain states wasnt it? Surely some portion of society mustve cared.
But pre Roe, abortion restrictions could always be explained as an exercise of the state’s police and regulatory authority, rather than the right to life.  There was no effort, however, with giving the unborn the right to sue or be sued, or the right to own property, or the right to receive an inheritance, which would have been consistent with pre-natal personhood.
... Multiple factors, few of them intellectual. A good share of it comes from valuing of sex and sexual freedom to an extreme. Pregnancy is a consequence of sex - one of the most dire ones, in terms of requiring responsibility (and thus inhibiting freedom) - and nothing encourages one to get creative with ones' worldview quite like a pragmatic desire. Centralized governments, all the rage for a while now, are keenly interested in being able to control every aspect of life as much as they can, and reproduction is key there. Especially since in the past there were big scares about overpopulation. The problem with topics like this is that there's pressure on multiple levels, from individual, subcultural and cultural, all the way up to multi-billion dollar initiatives, which create a kind of cycle.
It seems that your comment contains 1 or more links that are hard to tap for mobile users. I will extend those so they're easier for our sausage fingers to click! Here is link number 1 - Previous text "..." Please PM /u/eganwall with issues or feedback! | Delete
You seem to think that abortion has only recently come about(phrasing 'won back'). You realize that abortion has been common for millennia, correct? Abortificants were widely used (but not talked about) around the founding of the US. It wasn't until the rise of Victorian morality and early 20th Century medicine that there started to be the backlash. In fact, most of the original anti-abortion laws were explicitly to protect mothers from poisoning themselves, and weren't really written from a pro-life perspective.
Abortion en masse and for convenience, called a "right" by law, and publicly celebrated is definitely a new thing. I don't doubt that some people used abortificants before the modern era, but it's certainly not on the same scale, with the force of law and with public shaming for everyone who didn't like it. Also, since "people didn't talk about it" we can really only speculate how "common" it actually was. I'd imagine that the pro-abortion crowd has a vested interest in making it sound common because it further normalizes it. I suppose some pro-lifers might want to believe that the existence of abortion only occurs in a brief historical moment. But honestly I think most of us know that people have always dehumanized others for their own gain. Still, there has been some progress on some issues. Also "Victorian morality" includes much of the abolition movement, growth in concern for the poor, etc. So don't reduce it to a stereotype or something to sneer at.
Appreciate the reply. I'm not sure why you think I'm sneering at Victorian morality unless you also think I'm sneering at the role of early 20th century medicine in the understanding of the fetus in changing perceptions. Regardless, here is another read on the subject for those interested. https://world.wng.org/2015/01/did_colonial_america_have_abortions_yes_but  I admit the  question on whether it was 'common' is debated, though perhaps one could infer a bit from pregnancy rates related to marriage.
The OP's question is why societies have accepted abortion, ie, made abortion legal. Abortion being "common" before (if true) isn't really that relevant. Prostitution was common during the Victorian era, but it wasn't accepted by society. Also, the argument that abortion was only illegal to prevent women from dying (and not out of concern for the fetus) is highly debatable. Joseph Dellapenna's work on the history of abortion has cast a lot of doubt on that. Dellapenna also argues that the reason there weren't clear laws on abortion before the 1800s is because very little was known about conception and embryology, and it was impossible to know a woman was pregnant until "quickening" (after which point abortion was illegal).
The OP edited their post after my reply. He/she had language in the post suggesting that abortions are a new phenomena. My reply was relevant to that text, and I'd argue it's still relevant to talk about if/how/why societies of the past accepted abortion.
Oh OK I didn't realize the edit. I think how past societies thought about abortion can be relevent in some cases, but I don't think it speaks to the morality of abortion. If 100% of past societies thought abortion was wrong that wouldn't necessarily make the prochoice position wrong. And vice versa

Violence and rape has also happened since the beginning of time and there will always be harmful acts committed against others but this does not explain why some nations outlaw certain acts of violence and others do not. Or why some cultures accept certain atrocious acts while others do not.

Politics is already incredibly democrat leaning and a reflection of a deep hatred of the republican party. Of course strongly pro choice/anti pro life comments are going to rise to the top.
Granted, but that says nothing about the article itself?  Is it wrong?  Do we not have a duty to oppose what is happening at the border?  Is that a bad way to phrase the question? I guess I'm just tired of seeing values I hold so dear associated with someone like Trump.
My suggestion? Stop reading biased rags like the NY Times and r/politics they're going to spew nonsense like this because their party is failing miserably right now.
"What is happening"? You mean enforcement of our countries borders? Why would you oppose that? The argument they're making is literally idiotic. It boils down to "If you won't collapse the entire financial system of the U.S. by accepting countless illegal immigrants then you can't support not murdering children in the womb". Criminals get separated from their children, it's been true in literally every single modern presidency, these criminals get no sympathy from me, there are countless immigrants trying to do things the right way and these people try to force their way in. These are not new policies, these are not Trump policies, if you don't want values you hold dear associated with Trump then perhaps you should stop pretending Trump is responsible for things he is not.
Ah the old "If you won't let criminals remain with their children and allow countless millions of them to flood into your country then you can't support not butchering children!" argument. It's a common variant of "Well you don't think x so you can't possible think unrelated y", my favorite variant is the "You don't think welfare works, so you can't actually care about children dying" it's really adorable, a weak argument for sure but an adorable attempt. Let's take for example Kate Steinle who thanks to illegal immigrants won't get to celebrate fathers day tomorrow, how about all the other children killed by Illegal Immigrants? You have no right to forcibly enter another country, criminals are criminals and border security gives you no right to rip a child limb from limb in the womb.

Congratulations on the new addition! Hope everything is going well for both of you.
Thanks! So far so good! I mean first tri was awful with the nausea and vomiting but I just try not to think about the dark days haha.
Too cute! Ok loved having these pictures!
Showerthought rambling but this post made me realize how unusual it is for people to say "my fetus". It's always "my baby" or "the fetus". Just another way of using terminology to distance themselves I guess.
Your mother didn't have a Fetus Shower when you were in the womb?
When I see my girlfriend I always greet her with “hey fetus”
This is obviously fake. Fetuses don't have feet.... /s
That lump of cells looks suspiciously like a young developing human /s
Congratulations! I am pregnant too, with a boy. I guess according to prochoicers I have suddenly grown a penis. Lol. How about you?
Two vaginas over here! Whoop whoop!
Woohoo!! Girls rule. Lol. I already have 2 of those 🙂. Enjoy every moment. People used to tell me that the days are long but the years are short. I’m starting to recognize what they mean. All the best.
This'll be our second girl! :)
Having a sister is awesome!
It's just a clump of cells. - Pro-choicer
Took me a while to get it 😂😂😂 Cute foot btw
There's actually really even more neat stuff at play here, i.e. Fetal-maternal microchimerism  You'll likely have your babies stem cells in your body for the rest of your life, there's been studies showing that these injections of stem cells may be a mechanism by which the unborn child contributes to it's own survival. Here's another really good article on the craziness of this: There's lots of studies with this regarding the heart: http://circres.ahajournals.org/content/110/1/3 tl;dr Pregnancy is amazing, women are magic DNA exchange reservoirs, and you have your child's stem cells actively circulating through your body.
2 noses, 4 eyes and ears, double everything else too. Twice as much love, definitely <3

That is what OP is getting at, yes.
r/woooosh
Congrats! :D She'll be lucky to have a mother like you, I can tell!

Could be a sign Kennedy's on the way out. The denial of the petition for a writ of certiorari indicates that less than four justices voted to review the case. We have four staunchly pro-abortion justices on the Court, so why would they not all vote to hear the case? Perhaps they know that by the time the case is heard, there will be a pro-life majority that would affirm. Fingers crossed, everyone.
Yes!

This post was removed because you have a new account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.

..and she calls herself Catholic. Sigh.
Ok Melinda, your husband is one of the richest people in the world. How about YOU donate to Planned Parenthood, if it's so important to you, instead of making the rest of us pay through taxation.

There is so much misunderstanding of science in the first point alone. Almost every statement is outright false. This is not opinion, but biologically supported science.
At any given time during gestation, the fetus is only as long as a piece of string!
Exactly the letter o could be any size o
I couldn’t read past the first point. This is laughably stupid. Their willingness to ignore literally every moral question of the abortion issue is astounding. At least the Nazis tried to make arguments, however absurdly wrong they were. There’s nothing wrong with being stupid, but using your stupidity as an excuse to slaughter people is evil.
That is a gross understatement Honestly these people are pro murdering innocent children and anti death penalty for evil adults
The ten weeker looks like a beautiful baby to me.
Same, personally I think every stage is cute cause it’s a baby 👶🏻
Hey, wizard man how'd you make the baby emoji.
I’m on my iPhone 📱 lol 😂 👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻.        Don’t know if you can see some of these lol 👨‍👩‍👧‍👦
I can't duplicate it O.O I googled it and it says it should be :baby: but it doesn't work. I can copy half the baby emoji:  🏻Here's the other half:  👶 Paste both of them next to each other and it makes the baby O.O Learning how to make babies in r/prolife and here I thought it was the other guys who didn't know how those were made :D
I am clutching my sides I’m laughing so hard 👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻👶🏻 Hey this might blow your mind.   🤱🏻.         🤰🏻
Why does reddit have NO emoji support? My phone has none of these emojis :(
Fist one is a mom nursing her baby and the other is a happily pregnant lady
What a disgusting poster. So many blatant medical fallacies and stupidity. I actually felt myself lose IQ points just reading this trash. Where did you find this?
I was googling size of human egg (I read that it could be seen with the human eye so I wanted to see it lol) then came across this garbage
I've literally never seen this. The umbilical cord is a pretty major part of the iconography of the fetus.
Her first paragraph spits in the face of known science, the fetus is a living independent human being which requires care to survive - no different from any other child. Were this not the case in vitro fertilization and experimentation with artificial wombs would not be possible.
Exactly And their insistence on ONLY referring to a baby as a fetus but neglect to find out the meaning of the word 😂 it’s attempt to help desensitize them but once they find out it means “offspring” (basically baby/child/young)they go all “lalalala I can’t hear you”
All of their arguments get obliterated by the artificial womb. Not only will it allow women with various illnesses and disabilities to have their own children (as well as other awesome tidbits like letting the baby listen to the mothers heart and voice, which is huge to the women who can't have babies on their own) but it will force those who are pro-abortion to admit that they aren't "pro-choice" they're anti-life, it's about killing a child who's inconvenient not about bodily autonomy. My sister was really excited by it before she passed.
All of this is just so heartbreakingly sad I don’t know if I’ll ever have children, my fiancé and I are honestly waaaay too immature and want to have fun and go places, but if I ever did wind up pregnant even with all the safety measures we use, I will keep that baby and love him/her like I wish my parents had loved me. I find the people of this sub extremely nice and caring I had been part of r/childfree but they were ass hats saying that I wasn’t really childfree if I was even slightly open to the idea of having a child.
Yeah, children are really significant so it does make sense. I don't always completely understand some of the things that go on (I scoffed at the heartbeat bit the first time she told me about it, it seemed silly at first) but the more you think about it the more start realizing the significance of things. I'm terrified of having children because my brother have both ended up in awful divorces and although one has managed to maintain full custody (his ex-wife went a little...strange) the other did what he thought was best and let his daughters move to California with their mother (She cheated on him with a 19 year old) and she almost never lets him see them. Having children out of wedlock seems like a really terrible idea, but paying backbreaking alimony and putting your kids through a divorce isn't good either. Just don't think I have the faith for it as bad as it sounds, besides I want to take care of my sisters children. This sub is generally pretty nice, even though it's a pretty heavy topic of discussion. Hopefully we can get some victories and help those who felt (or were told) they weren't strong enough to have their child in the process.
Please don't share pro-abortion propaganda in this group.
Nah, we need to hear what the other side is saying. It's not even very good propaganda, anyway. I couldn't help but grin as I read this, because the production value on it looks pretty high (e.g. they appear to have at least hired a graphic designer to put it together), yet its fundamental arguments are so easily dismantled. If this is the best they've got, if this vapid line of thinking is good enough for them to spend money on, then they've practically already lost the war. I always worry that I'm going to come across a pro-choice philosophical argument that actually holds water, that actually threatens the pro-life movement, but it never comes. It doesn't exist. And people are realizing it.
All this. I squee and flap my hands giddily when i see this shit.
Indeed
I was sharing the stupidity so we can mock them 🙄

So very true. 40 years later and a man I know still thinks about it often. So very sad.
It's really nice to see stuff like this, the feminists love to shout "No uterus, no opinion" but it doesn't make it hurt any less for those affected. Good on r/prolife for giving these guys a voice for their hurt.




Aha, the table's on the other foot
I’m pretty sure North Korea has also been doing abortions for decades so I didn’t find it that funny of a satire.
oh yeah and also the thousands of nukes lmao

"Because I'm deliberately misinterpreting the phrase, that means you can't REALLY be pro-life unless you support this political issue completely unrelated to abortion."
The author isn't try to say who is pro-life and who isn't. He is pointing out that there are matters of life and death other than abortion. It's relevant because many pro–life groups are very anti–LGBTQ. Pro–choicers accuse us of only caring about lives before birth. So let's prove them wrong.
I don't disagree that it's important to care about people after they're born, but I find that going down this path ends up being a major diversion about the core discussion of abortion. And for some reason, this kind of talk only seems to surround the topic of abortion. You don't frequently see several unrelated issues crop up when people are discussing, say, the environment or welfare usage or gun control or gay marriage. I don't think pro-lifers have anything to "prove" from this perspective. Their thoughts on these issues are only related if one is willing to redefine "pro-life" on a very literal level. Just about ANY political issue can be used to describe the concept of "life." Or to put it another way, it's like if someone said "You aren't pro-choice unless you support school choices for parents, tax choices for individuals, healthcare choices for everyone, the choice to defend yourself with a firearm..." etc. I just find it unfair and distracting to bring up all these other issues when the only element that ALL pro-lifers actually share is that they're opposed the act of electively killing an unborn child in the womb.
It all depends on how we define the term "pro-life." If we define it as simply anti-abortion, then you are correct. But if we define it as advocating for the right to life for all human beings, then it certainly is important to advocate for the right to life for all human beings, before and after birth. In the same way, feminists now often advocate for people who are victims of racism, because they realized that the most vulnerable women in society are those subject to racism. It's called intersectionality.
Again, I don't disagree on principle, but making these discussions too broad doesn't help the pro-life movement. They end up losing focus when the point of contention should really be on the unborn and their humanity. Trying to discuss five controversial political stances at once is really difficult.
Personally, as a pacifist, I find it actually makes discussions with others easier. I can say honestly that I oppose violence against all human beings, before and after birth, whether through war, gun violence, domestic violence, abortion, hate crimes, etc. People tend to respect consistency, even when they disagree.
It's meaningless sophistry. You might as well say that you can't truly be pro-choice unless you support the choice to refuse to cater for a gay wedding.
This sentence is both incredibly vague, a sweeping generalization, and entirely not backed up by evidence. A clarification is needed. The right to life is fundamental, if someone is trying to unjustly kill anyone - regardless of what acronym they want to label themselves with - it must be stopped. Whether or not these people feel welcome in a religion has nothing to do with pro-life values, you could literally carry this to anything "You're not pro-life unless you'll force this baker to bake our cake and violate his values", "You're not pro-life if you won't support welfare, even if you believe welfare makes suffering worse", etc. etc. It's nonsense, it's garbage and it has no place in honest discussion. As for the countries where minorities are persecuted, executed, jailed, etc. I have routinely supported granting those people safe haven, on the condition we also not mass import violent criminals from those same places, we don't save them just to turn our own country into the hellscape they were fleeing. As an atheist I have a strong sympathy for those murdered in the name of Islam who regardless of their faith (or lack thereof) are treated as apostates and brutally slaughtered, this doesn't stop the "caring" left from mass importing this hateful anti-LGBT bigoted ideology.
Many pro-life organizations also advocate for taking away the rights of LGBTQ people. These organizations include LifeSiteNews, Campaign Life Coalition, Focus on the Family, the Roman Catholic church, and the Republican Party in the US. As someone who believes in human rights, including the right to life for all human beings, I will always advocate for those who are vulnerable and persecuted, before and after birth.
You've provided absolutely zero citations. You not only failed to mention what "Rights" they wanted to take away, you also failed to provide any evidence that they want said rights revoked. Wanting a separate term for gay marriages, while granting all the rights a normal marriage would grant i.e. Civil Partnership isn't taking away anyone's right - that's what nearly every single group has supported in some form. Your argument is blatantly full of garbage, it's not backed by evidence it's backed by hyperbole and emotion. Case and Point: Republicans have had every form of government for a year now and what "rights" (you seem to not know what a right is, at the very least you seem unable to list the ones which are in grave danger) have been seized? Let me guess: You think it's a "Right" to enslave a baker and force them to make cakes against their will? Affirmative "rights" aren't a thing, you don't have a right to force someone to make something for you.
What does this have to do with abortion?
Well, since you asked, with more gay couples marrying there are more people looking to adopt. Oh, and they aren't likely to have an abortion. Oh, and everyone deserves the right to life.

Are these groups student organizations at the colleges they are trying to speak with? If so, they could have legal standing.
Ah, those loving, tolerant liberals. So much love and tolerance!
What's the point of meeting with the chancellor when this already went through the state senate? Of course they refuse to meet with you. Take it to the state assembly if you're that opposed to it but don't try to meet with someone that has no control over it and then play the victim when they don't respond.
Yeah this seems like nothing but manufactured outrage.  Basically equivalent to complaining that the bakers who lost the gay marriage cake case "won't meet with you about the case".  Why would they?  They don't owe you a meeting about something just because you feel like having a chat about it.

Great article! I have a very similar story to the guy you interviewed and it really hits home. I became prolife while still an atheist because of biology, but it was these questions and Humanae Vitae that drew me to the church.
Good for you.
I'm curious. What about the field of biology convinced you of the pro life position?
The fact that a new human life/organism is formed at conception, not merely a "potential life" or "clump of cells" that becomes a human later. The fact that the embryo is the same individual organism as the newborn baby nine months later. The fact that abortion is not only a medical procedure done to a woman's body, but the killing of a child's body. I believed that all human beings have fundamental rights, including the right to not be murdered, so naturally I understood that abortion was a terrible violation of that right.
OC in the sense I'm the interviewer but Rickard provided most of the material.

The linked tweet was tweeted by @VP on Jun 13, 2018 17:37:25 UTC (1957 Retweets | 7785 Favorites) .@POTUS  Trump is the most pro-life President in American history! And it was my honor as Vice President to cast the tie-breaking vote to allow states across America to defund Planned Parenthood. #SBC18 Attached video • Beep boop I'm a bot • Find out more about me at /r/tweettranscriberbot/ •
Pretty interesting that the Southern Baptist Convention of 1971 pre-RoevWade and pre-Southern Strategy released a consensus pro-choice resolution on abortion
This was before the conservative resurgence in the SBC. In the 70s, the SBC was more liberal/moderate than it is now.
Before Roe v Wade abortion was usually thought as a catholic only issue.
Tbf, those reasons would only account for about 26.5% of abortions. By today's standards, even that liberal/moderate SBC would be considered "anti-choice".
What kind of random percentage is that. Potentially all could fall under emotional or mental state of the mother.
From Guttmacher Institute: https://www.guttmacher.org/sites/default/files/pdfs/pubs/psrh/full/3711005.pdf (Chart at the top right of page 4 of the document; page-number 113; I added up the aforementioned reasons: health of mother, health of fetus, incest, and rape)
https://www.nytimes.com/2006/12/10/magazine/10Section2b.t-4.html
That was in March.  He's just tweeting about bragging about it now at the Southern Baptist Conference.
Still good news though

Do you know what the separation of Church and state actually is? It is the belief that governments cannot establish a state religion or interfere in the free excessive of religion. It absolutely is not a prohibition on people basing their political beliefs on religious principles.
The separation of church and state only means we can't set up a state religion, it has nothing to do with voters using their morality to shape law. Also, since when is stopping the wholesale slaughter of children only a religious issue?
The slaughter of an unprotected class of humanity can be a secular issue.
It is for me, I'm an atheist, all comes down to basic human rights.
But it's rather obvious it isn't here. #SBC18
They're trying to get you to stop killing people, not go to church.
Show me where that is in the constitution
Show me where the Bengals are in the constitution.
They aren't. Show me where separation of Church and State is in the Constitution. I'll wait.
Great, so we've established that we can be fans of things that aren't in the US Constitution.
I like Separation of Church and State too, as its intention was to keep the government away from the church, not the other way around.
It goes both ways. We don't live in a theocracy and not all us prolifers are Christians
I meant that the reason we know this phrase comes from arguments that the government should stay out of the church. The establishment clause is what you are thinking about, which says the government can't establish a religion.
Or it’s just pandering Which what it probably is
For those of you who are too fucking stupid to understand what federal funding is used for at PP: the Hyde Amendment.  That being said... Good-bye affordable HIV services. Good-bye affordable pregnancy testing. Good-bye affordable STD testing, treatment, and vaccines. Good-bye affordable pelvic exams. Good-bye affordable cancer screenings. Good-bye affordable LGBT services. Good-bye affordable birth control. Good job conservative dick holes!!!!
Oh no! Us women can’t go to federally funded qualified health centers or doctors! PP is our only hope for health care! We will all DIE!
Roughly 75 percent of Planned Parenthood’s patients have income at or below 150 percent of the federal poverty level. Local community centers do not have the bandwidth to take on the Medicaid- and Medicare-supported patients who depend on access to PP’s availability of resources. A study by the Guttmacher Institute found that in the 491 counties where there are currently Planned Parenthood clinics, 103 of them have no other clinics where low-income patients can gain access to affordable contraceptive services, should PP’s services be drained. Maybe do some research dear.
If a organisation is actively murdering children I think that that takes precedent over any other services they provide.
Cry me a river. At the end of the day, the right is a sexist platform putting millions of women’s lives at stake. If you can sleep knowing that, then good for you.

Which is to say . . . if every medical professional in a given Catholic hospital invokes their conscience, no abortions would take place in said hospital. One wonders if those who do the hiring would be willing to fire all their willing-to-provide-abortions staff, to put their money where their mouths are, so to speak. Although this does bring up a question for me- does that mean that Catholic hospitals are still free to deny birth control and sterilization services to patients, since those things are not expressly required by law the way abortion is now?  If so, that's pretty crazy- yes, you can get an abortion here, but no way will we tie your tubes.
Churches and organizations generally should always have contingency plans for when those who control the funding decide to pull this kind of thing. Including forgoing the funding for as long as needed. But if they're going to force this, women should be afraid of getting abortions at any Catholic hospital. I'm sure there's plenty of creative ways to manage that.
I don't understand what you mean by the latter half of your post? I would rather women not come to Catholic hospitals for abortions period, because they don't provide them. Being scared or afraid of negative consequences should have nothing to do with it. Catholics are not consequentialists after all.
Of course it should. It's even entirely Catholic to say: whether we're talking about the fear of Hell, the fear of just punishment at the hands of proper authorities, etc, fear of negative consequences for a given immoral act is a pretty standard part of the Catholic (and secular) arsenal. Ideally, no one should ever seek to have an abortion regardless of the legality of it. But we don't live in an ideal world, and discouraging rotten behavior with negative consequences is part of living in it. That's not 'consequentialism' - nothing immoral is being advocated here or justified by consequences. Really, that was the entire fight in Ireland: they removed negative consequences for getting abortions in the country.
Abortion is wrong and should be illegal, you and I can agree with that. I admit that when I read your initial comment, the way you phrased "women should be afraid" and "there's plenty of creative ways to manage that" seemed a bit sinister in its phrasing. I will admit, I am not exactly on board with arresting women who seek abortions. I understand the rationale for punishing them as what they are doing is a horrific act. However, my understand of civil justice in a state would be more concerned with punishing the provider than the consumer. It's the same way I would approach an issue like the War on Drugs. Empirically, targeting users has failed, and lead to a swelling in our prison population, while creating felons out of otherwise decent people and trapping them in an underclass. Now, I understand there are quite a few degrees of difference between smoking weed and killing an unborn child, but for many women, the choice is often coerced or the result of strong social pressures. This would be a mitigating circumstance, and hence this is why I am in favor of leniency to some degree with regards to those who obtain abortions, versus those who provide. Because people who provide abortions, they are enabling the practice by giving it an outlet. Making it "safe, legal, and rare", you might say, except without the rare part. They are the scandalizers who normalize the practice and make it out to be "no big deal". I am Catholic as well, and will not pretend that the woman is free of moral guilt. If anything, I think she bears her decision the heaviest on her conscience. The guilt can haunt people for years down the line. That is why I am in favor of granting leniency, because ultimately abortion causes women to suffer as well. I understand and can somewhat sympathize with the argument to the contrary, but I would just suggest being weary when talking about "creative ways" to make women afraid of seeking abortions. Fear is a less practical tool than compassion when it comes to changing people's hearts, since it is through people's hearts and minds that we can change the culture of death. God bless.
It's a bit sinister to modern ears, no question. So you want to be sure to further weaken social pressures or coercion in the opposite direction? Maybe I misread you, but if this is what you're saying - then there's little point in all this. My "sinister" talk cashes out, heavily, to social pressures and yes, coercion. In fact, I think those are essential to keeping women from getting in situations where an abortion may even be in principle desirable in the first place. I can find you some abortionists who have gone pro-life and feel rotten about what they did. Will you give them leniency too? I can find women - many - who don't give a damn about their abortion, and some of them have gone on to be champions of the cause. Are they getting leniency as well? Let me make a somewhat touchy suggestion: Christian pro-lifers have found it of the utmost importance to have boundless sympathy, compassion and forgiveness for women who get abortions, not because they seek to imitate the resplendent and merciful image of God, but because they're terrified of the backlash they'd expect for taking a harsher tone. From their friends and their family, who would cut them with even more barbs than they already do. They are not willing to be cast in certain poor lights by their opponents. They have an image to maintain, and friendships to maintain too. Sounds nice. All evidence indicates it's wrong or woefully incomplete. Social stigma, works. Fear, works. And at times, it's right and just. Women who get abortions - especially under the most irresponsible, flippant conditions - should feel as if they are being judged. They should feel like pariahs. And women who look at them should think, 'I never want to end up like her.', and act accordingly. And there should be a place for those women to apologize and make amends for what they have done. Women who do not get in those situations - who don't abort, who don't get pregnant out of wedlock - should feel esteemed. Held up by society for that. And that, by the way, will always and constantly make women who fall short feel as if they have, in fact, fallen short. It's unavoidable human nature. It's also correct, except in cases utterly beyond their control or behavior. These are, I think, very obvious and powerful conclusions, easy to grasp. That so much effort is put into resisting them is odd.
No, my statement was pointing out that there is heavy social pressure today for young women to get abortions. For the sake of their jobs or academic studies, they're told that being a young mother is irresponsible and unseemly. Then, if they get knocked up, they're encouraged to make the problem "go away". This is wrong, and we should weaken the pressures that make this mindset so prevalent. De-stigmatizing young mothers, providing better services for mothers on college campuses and better accommodations for mothers in the workplace. The pro-life movement in my region is growing because it markets itself as pro-family, and that includes both mother and child in terms of their quality of life. You are not wrong here. It is difficult to be outspokenly pro-life in many areas, my liberal college campus is no exception. And I would be a liar if I didn't admit to struggling with that. Nonetheless, compassion is an important part of our advocacy, in fact I would say it is our motivating force for being pro-life. There are many people in the pro-life movement who have joined after having abortions, there are certainly ways to bring people successfully into the fold that don't involve shaming them as people. Hate the sin, love the sinner kind of deal. People shouldn't feel like abortion is an option for them. We should endeavor to produce a society as conducive to the family as possible. And yes, your point about virtue, and holding up people who exhibit responsible behavior, I think that is also true. I don't agree that making people to be pariahs is quite as effective, however. I'm willing to be proven wrong.
No question, and I won't just blame women for abortion. On the other hand... why are you citing "heavy social pressure" as an excuse for why women get abortions, and also paradoxically as a reason why we shouldn't apply "heavy social pressure" for women to not get abortions? Or to not get knocked up to begin with? That's part of the problem here. You're at once telling me you don't want to use social pressure because it doesn't work, and then citing the massive success of social pressure by the pro-abortion and others. I could cite some social data from the past on stigma, but why ask? You clearly agree that it DOES work - you're citing it for others. There's a lot of bad decisions being made in the pro-life movement. For the record, women who have gotten abortions and then joined? Who admitted their wrong and now seek forgiveness and work against it all? (And the men who did the same for encouraging it, even procuring abortions?) I'm entirely favor of welcoming them. A key part of stigma is providing a route for recovery. It has to be a meaningful route, with some kind of repayment for past wrongs, symbolic or otherwise, if only to demonstrate sincerity. But if the attitude is "Well, we love you no matter what you do, and while we disapprove of what you did it's certainly not something we think you should feel bad about", that's not love. It better start including the father. If the pro-life movement grows only insofar as it avoids treating abortion as a rotten thing, that's not the sort of growth anyone should enjoy. If you found out that people who accept abortion only up to 20 weeks 'considered themselves pro-life', any encouragement you feel should be heavily tempered. That is part of the problem, by the way. You want to make a society "as conducive to the family as possible"? Will you be holding up the nuclear family as ideal, and single motherhood as non-ideal? You'll be stigmatizing people who fall short. People will even feel ashamed at falling short, and the worries of that stigma and shame will in fact keep a lot of people behaving properly, even if some people screw up.
Bravo. What even is the point of taking on this issue if you're going to engage in such heavy buttkissing of the other side? I suspect many people think they're gonna get prochoicers to come to the prolife side by giving them really convincing analingus But it won't work. If they were ethical people, they wouldn't be prochoice. They're going to take the analingus and run.
There's a lot of reasons why people do this. A lot of it is personal: their mother/father, sister/brother, best friend, social circle, their coworkers, their boss, whatever, is pro-abortion, or had an abortion. Are they going to condemn them? That's a tall order, and I know it. And if people come out and talked about that, we'd be able to understand the stakes here, engage it, think it through. We'd make progress. But what people do instead is pretend that the easy route just so happens to be the most merciful route and the best, wisest choice. It's not. That charade has to end.
My best friend had an abortion though and i was about to have one. Let me firstly accuse myself of having had what should be criminal levels of selfishness. Can confirm, that was me. So When did we forget the mantra "nobody's perfect" and switch over to "everyone's perfect?" 2009 i think? 10?

I mean, I'm pretty pro-choice, but I am intrigued by your offer.
Im not offering, because i think the mother should be punished etc. Ye shall get no tongue action from me

Wow that sounds astonishingly wrong.
Could you elaborate on what this means? I'm a bit confused.

Better to be persecuted than to murder.
I'm an atheist, but wow this is disgusting.
It would make sense for a government to only fund organizations follow the nations laws. If a Catholic hospital would prefer not to perform this type of service than they shouldn’t receive public funding.
I agree with you on a legal standpoint, I am just sad that it had to come to this.
You are correct.
A good lesson on why taking money from the government is always a bad idea if you can avoid it.  Then you don't get to actually have your own morality as an organization without them pulling the money whenever the tides of popular culture change.
Whether they're in the right legally isn't really the point.
This is the best tl;dr I could make, original reduced by 59%. (I'm a bot) Extended Summary | FAQ | Feedback | Top keywords: allow#1 out#2 legislation#3 abortion#4 opt#5

A distinction without a difference.
Similarly, if a Jehovah's Witness owns a hospital, they can't prevent blood transfusions from occurring in that hospital. Individuals have religious rights; institutions do not.
That isn't true, it's just a childish talking point those on the Left parrot back and forth to one another.
The first sentence or the second?
00:00 - "The new SCOTUS decision implies every church is obliged to marry a gay couple"

Passing laws just because the majority of people want them is not a workable or ethical way to legislate. What if the wind blows, and suddenly people are in favor of less restrictive abortion? Would it be fair to the unborn children for us to pass laws endangering them because of that? I say pass restrictions on abortion because it’s a positive step toward saving these children. Not because the majority wants it.
You are absolutely right that majority does not make morality.  On the other hand broad public support is how democracy is supposed to function.  It is in the minds of the individuals that the moral judgements should be made.
Im pretty sure that passing laws that the majority wants is the ethical way to do it. The other option is passing laws that the major of people don't want, that sounds worse.
Yeah mob rule is great? Who doesn't want mob rule. Oh yeah, the people who founded our country.
The system they implemented more closer to mob rule than the one they left. So I don't really get that argument.  How would any group go about implementing a law that goes against the majority?
Well for starters you use a system of representatives - people don't vote on issues directly. Then you create different systems of policy making - the house and the senate, both of which are voted for differently (We have fewer senators because they are voted for at the state level, where as our representatives are elected at the district level) creating different voter segments, making it not just an issue of numbers but geography. Then you do everything in your power to limit the federal government. To top it all off you create the head of the executive branch with it's own election process - again not voted for by the majority, indeed ignoring the mob-rule popular vote all together by using the electoral college, this individual has significant power (kept in check by the other branches) and can appoint individuals that work counter to the opinions of the mob.
But the mob still votes for their representatives, and they aren't going to vote for people who are going to enact legislation they don't like. Just because it isn't direct democracy doesn't mean it isn't democracy. Also note you need more than a simple majority to pass legislation, it would be strange for 60% of senators and 50% of reps to vote for something that less than 50% of the country wanted, although it is technically possible.
Yes, but they're split geographically - case in point: Statistically republicans are a minority yet they hold the house, the senate, and the presidency. You're ignoring a few bits of information: Only a minority of the population votes, most of these voters are in cities. Population is heavily concentrated in the cities yet legislation passes all the time that favors small towns. So you have people who are divided geographically voting for representatives - whom have their own moral compass - and just because you are the majority doesn't mean you'll have the majority of representatives. This was all by design, done in order to prevent the tyranny of the majority.
Because the right to abortion is currently constitutionally protected.
Roe v. Wade and others prevents abortion from being made illegal entirely, but does not prevent restrictions from being put in place by the states to a certain point. Restrictive laws on abortion are controversial to some, but not automatically unconstitutional.
What we need to do is reverse Roe v. Wade entirely. Then we can legally restrict abortion completely.
Wait for Justice Ginsberg or Justice Kennedy to leave the bench Reverse Roe v. Wade Have congress pass a bill stating that life begins at conception. Continue to make abortion unthinkable, put planned parenthood out of business. Call a convention of states and pass an amendment saying life starts at conception.
Unfortunately, short of a constitutional amendment, we will need to get the Supreme Court to play ball.  Until then, restrict the practice as much as possible.  Not good enough, but it will save some lives.
Well then it's just up to the states, so you aren't gonna be able to do much in any liberal states.
That's a separate battle we can fight later (or perhaps even at the same time)
Yes, but the restrictive laws that most desire are unconstitutional. It makes it difficult to put any in place when abortion is constitutionally prevented from being entirely eradicated.

A shift since the 1990's, not a shift anytime recently. We've been about evenly split on pro-life/pro-choice for a long time now. It's actually stunning considering how other social topics have shifted towards the more "progressive" side over time while pro-life-ism has been maintained.
I think that has a lot to do with abortion currently being legal. There isn't really as much of a need for people to be actively pro-choice when that's already the law, especially in liberal states. If something legitimately threatened the status quo, or if it actually changed, you would probably see those numbers change a lot. If you grow up in some conservative area, it's easy to pay lip service to being pro-life when you can still actually get an abortion. The conversation changes a lot when that option isn't available. Pastors teenage daughter gets pregnant and goes on "vacation" for a week and gets an abortion, then life goes in as usual, if she can't do that then the pastor has a lot more to deal with.
True. But you also have to factor in a Trump/"Republican" presidency. Usually when pro-lifers are in power, as you mentioned there's a reactive shift towards identifying as pro-choice. Yet the numbers appear stable.
Idk, aside from more restrictive laws in a handful of very conservative areas, I don't think people see much of a legitimate threat, it would take a constitutional amendment or an extremely improbable SCOTUS decision. 1992 was the last SCOTUS big scotus case, and the pro choice people won that, you have people that are 30 years old who have never seen a legitimate threat, and every year that there isn't one is just gonna make them more complacent, unitl there is an actual threat. How much didn't he recent Irish vote align with the pro-life vs pro-choice polls?
Really? Because from Guttmacher: Restrictions on abortions have only been increasing more in recent years. Meanwhile Trump appointed Gorsuch. Both of these factors I have heard many pro-choicers complaining loudly about.
There has certainly been more than nothing, but I doubt too many of those laws have a large effect on middle or upperclass women. Those laws probably have the most impact on poor rural women who don't have a very large voice. How hard do you think it is for a well off woman to get an abortion in Houston Texas? I don't think there is going to be much extra resistance until those people feel uncomfortable.
Perhaps, but (1) it's still a hassle that anyone, rich or poor, is going to care about if they want an abortion (if anything the wealthy and more privileged get more uppity at the more slight inconveniences) and (2) poor people still have political opinions that are polled. Your initial argument was that not much has happened in 30 years except "in a handful of very conservative areas," but if more than half of states have become hostile/extremely hostile to abortion rights, that's a lot more than a handful.
I also suspect that there is a lot of variance on what people understand “pro-life” and “pro-choice” to mean.  Recently on the pro-choice sub, someone claiming to be pro-life clarified her position by saying that abortion should not be made illegal as much as it should be made unnecessary.  I think most people would characterize his/her position as pro-choice.
Right, frankly the "how do you identify" poll question has got to be the most useless one compared to literally any other question asking about policy/position.


Well, aren't you a piece of work. Go say that to someone who's had a miscarriage.

You're wrong. The difference bewteen a miscarriage and stillbirth is that, where I am, stillbirth is the death of the baby from natural/unknown causes after 24 weeks pregnancy. Before that, the death is called a miscarriage. Abortion is the intentional and direct killing of the baby before it is born.

Wow. There's a time and place for jokes. Maybe in your circle of friends, you guys enjoy dark humour. Not here. One of my siblings died in a miscarriage and your 'joke' is disgusting. Go somewhere else.
Dead baby jokes? Yeah, real classy there. -.-

No you don't mate. Pro-choicer here, but I can tell you life is worth living. Be happy for the chance you have.
I just feel so lost and directionless. I just dont know, everything feels so pointless. I hate feeling like this, I'm so lost and alone in this world.
Just take a deep breath. Take a shower and a nap. Those are your first steps. Your second steps are to chat with someone you trust or to call an anonymous chat line for depression.
Shower ha I haven't showered in like 10 days. Or maybe more I'm not really keeping track. And when I said I was alone I meant it. I have no one to talk to, no one I really trust. So an anonymous chat line might be best. But depression and loneliness I can handle. I cant handle not knowing what the hell I want to do in life, everyday wasted because I have no clear goal in life.
Just checking in on you. Are you doing alright? My DM's are still open if you would like to talk.
It will all be okay. There’s no such thing as wasting your life, even though many of us worry about this, we’re all trying to find our way and it’s a learning process but just remember who you are, you are 100% unique and an important person in this world.  It’s yours.  Just take care of yourself and take each moment as it comes, remember who you are and find the joy in that. What is it that makes you feel like this? It is something specific that you can point to in your life experiences and surroundings? If you want to know the power of your mind and positive thinking, read this funny blog about the placebo effect and by the end you’ll feel like Superman lol

Would you say this to an expecting mother who miscarried?
No, I wouldn't say it to anyone. Context my friend. I make jokes about many dark things like rape and murder, but I wouldn't make a rape joke to a rape victim.
Me too, I even joke about abortion (in context of friends and people who know me) but this is not a joke thread but more for serious discussion.
I didn't see any sign that said no jokes allowed. A little humor never hurt anyone!
Okay, maybe put a /s tag or something on it next time. It doesn't sound like a joke (at least to me).
I dont believe in using the /s. Unfortunately it often gets me in trouble.

"You pro-lifers never adopt embryos, except for the times that you do!"
I would bring attention to people who are born and need help to survive - people with disablities. For example, a person in a wheelchair is dependent on a certain technology to survive but we wouldn't say their life is less worth living because of it. When we see vulnerability and helplessness in a person, our response should be to help them and support them, not to throw them under the bus for it.Another thing: is our human value determined by the virtue of our abilities, or the virtue of our being? The Universal Declaration of Human rights states that all members of the human family deserve the recognition of *inherent* dignity and respect. If we discriminate against people based on their abilities, we are treating humans as a means to an end; that they are only valued insofar they are valuable to us.
ALL post-birth babies require ongoing, grueling, dedicated life support lol. They all require at least 1 adult to use "their body" to support their life. For like, at least two years. MAYBE a toddler could survive independently on berries and babbling brook water in a forest free of predators. For a little while, before he fell off a large rock and broke his neck. So I'll extend my estimate to 7 years. All children under 7 are fair game, therefore.
Yes, once my son was born he was completely independent! He left the hospital and went straight to a job interview and then apartment hunting. A week later I went to visit him and he introduced me to his fiancee and told me he's up for a promotion at work. We ordered take out and talked about current events.
Well technically no one is independent because we rely on external factors to survive. However, neither are conjoined twins, people on life support, newborns and some people with special needs. Yet all those human beings have rights so this argument does not work. Next.
You can't just throw your own limiting clauses on human rights to make a convenient argument...
What is he talking about regarding volunteering wombs for excess fetuses? Is there some kind of technology that allows fetuses to be transferred into another woman's womb that I don't know about?
I assume he is referring to frozen embryos.
Ah that would make sense. I forgot about those.
I mean a toddler is pretty much dependent on his mom, so why should he have rights? Without his parents, he would die. So if his parents found him annoying one day, they could just walk away. It's ridiculous logic if you think about it. The mom still has to feed the baby even after it's born; nobody is truly independent until they're at least adolescents. In reality what separates a fetus from a baby is completely arbitrary and irrelevant. Dependence/independence is a terrible criterion for human rights.
You could say, well children have a habit of draining their parents resources, but we don't have a right to kill them.
BUt they would probably reply with claiming that the fetus is a drain on the moms body and children arent, so this is more analogous.
While it is true that the fetus uses the mother's body to a further extent, children absolutely do use their mother's body. Physical affection is imperative to a child's wellbeing, and babies will die without it. So while I agree that conjoined twins, someone who needs machine support, etc, are more analogous, it's not totally off the comparison bar.
BAAAHHAAAHAaaaaaahaaaaaaaahaaaaaaaaaa Bless their hearts.
Lol. My children drained my body much more after birth then during pregnancy. So no, don't accept this false statement as a true premise.
We  can't require people to go to schooling or to better themselves as requirement for walfare because that's not compassionate.

It's sad that I can't tell if this is sarcasm.
I really hope this is sarcasm...

I don't want to sound pessimistic, but I'm not sure how many Americans know the meaning of "most abortions". For example, opinion polls have shown that a much larger number of Americans support legal abortion in the first trimester, and I wouldn't be surprised if a significant number of respondents answered that they would like to see "most abortions  outlawed" because they only support first trimester abortions, without being aware that around 90% of abortions actually take place in the first trimester.
But we likely have pretty strong support to pass such laws outlawing later term abortions... Why not at least eliminate abortions after 12 or 20 weeks as many countries do? And it seems like most Americans would support (I think even a large portion of the "most legal" would support a 16 or 20 week ban).
Political support doesn't matter when it's a constitutional issue, and there is absolutely not enough support for an amendment. Even if it wasn't a constitutional issue, there just still no where close to enough support to get 60 senators, especially when all the republicans would have to openly be against states rights on the issue, something they probably don't want to do, since they like to use that line of reasoning for so many other things. The most that voter support is going to get you is incremental restrictions in deep red states.
The Marist polls (which are also highly rated) do ask more specific questions regarding trimester, a recent poll (from January 2017), found that 16% support abortion being legal at any time during pregnancy, 11% during the first 6 months, 22% only first trimester, 30% for rape, incest, and mother's life, 12% only to save the mother, and 10% say it should never be allowed.
Context: 48% identify as pro-choice, 48% as pro-life 50% Think Abortion should be legal under some conditions 18% Think legal under none 29% Legal under all By a Five-percentage-point margin, 48% to 43%, Americans believe abortion is wrong from a moral perspective The result is that 43% of Americans say abortion should be legal in all (29%) or most (14%) circumstances, while a majority of 53% say it should be legal in only a few (35%) or no circumstances (18%).
It's disappointing (sort of) that the questions have to be so vague. Few vs most is very vague when it comes to a topic as hotly debated as abortion. Legal in few circumstances could realistically mean legal before 20 weeks or in the case of significant fetal abnormality or danger to the mother. So it's hard to put a lot of weight on that question specifically. Luckily, they only asked the "few" or "most" circumstances to people who answered legal in some circumstances. So I think really the take away here is an overwhelming majority (79% to 18%) this it should be legal in at least some circumstances. ' You can download the actual questions/results here
Totally agree, it's hard to know what it means without knowing what is in the mind of the person answering it. There's a ton of misinformation about abortion out there. A person may think restricting it to the first trimester is limiting "all or most" abortions when it's not. Etc.
For an ever so slightly different perspective, the Gallup press release itself http://news.gallup.com/poll/235445/abortion-attitudes-remain-closely-divided.aspx?g_source=link_NEWSV9&g_medium=TOPIC&g_campaign=item_&g_content=U.S.%2520Abortion%2520Attitudes%2520Remain%2520Closely%2520Divided
Nice.
Stop misrepresenting statistics, it doesn't fool anyone who doesn't agree with the premise. Most people don't think that someone should be able to get an abortion under any circumstances. The problem with all these polls is there is no clear definition of 'most' and 'some' circumstances. So people impose their own definitions on it. 60% of Americans support first trimester (90%) of abortions.
-Article you linked. Let's focus on the positive and move there rather than just bemoan most people won't go for a full abortion ban tomorrow.
Where are you getting that from the link? The article links to this Marist poll, which has 49% of Americans supporting abortion being broadly legal at least in the first trimester, and the rest saying abortion should be restricted to at least just rape, incest, and life of the mother.
53% of Americans believe abortion should be illegal in all or most situations, while only 43% believe abortion should be legal in all or most situations.
Most people don't think abortion should be legal or illegal in all circumstsnces. Stop lumping people with a nuanced view in with black and white groups.
The result is that 43% of Americans say abortion should be legal in all (29%) or most (14%) circumstances, while a majority of 53% say it should be legal in only a few (35%) or no circumstances (18%). You're right, but my side is the one that's more popular
Which of those four areas do you fall under? No circumstances?
Some circumstances actually. I think heartbeat should be the cutoff. Or one days I feel really conservative, mother's life. But there are a few cases which I'd support
I actually think it's encouraging that attitudes to abortion haven't liberalized since Trump took office. Some people on both sides on the issue were speculating that his association with pro-life groups would move more of the public to the pro-choice side. Others (mostly pro-choicers) were speculating that Trump's promises to overturn Roe would also push the public in the other direction. At least thus far, that hasn't happened, so I'm feeling more optimistic than pessimistic about these results.
Should say all or most infant murders outlawed
I am primarily interested in medical ethics. Kindly share informative documentary films or any videos that you know.
Hush, (a documentary about abortion's negative effects on health made by a pro-choice woman), It's a girl (Haven't seen it myself, but it's about sex-selective abortions), The Silent Scream (you can find it easily on youtube; created by Dr. Bernard Nathanson. He is one of the founders of NARAL Pro-Choice America and performed abortions in the world's largest abortion clinic before becoming pro-life and advocating for pre-born life) Those are just a few that came to mind! Enjoy! ;P
This isn't really a documentary but it's a video about obstetrician gynecologist who use to do abortion explaining abortion procedures and him telling about how he gave up doing abortions. I realise that because the guy is against abortion it should initially be taken with some scepticism but if you look up the procedures from other sources they match what he is saying. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kHNzoZ4oheU
Cheers Jeff!
Check out the movie Bella.
Radioactive topic so not sure there is much that leans towards the science.
Do you only want pro-life documentaries?
I also welcome suggestions of pro-choice documentaries. I could learn more in hearing both sides of the argument. If you know any informative videos about medical ethics that also touches issues about the Hippocratic oath, I would really appreciate it. Kindly suggest books too if you know any.
Sure! After Tiller (documentary by Rachel Maddow) The Scarlet A (a book that does a very thorough analysis of bioethical arguments regarding abortion) After Roe (an excellent history of abortion in the US)
From a prochoice prospective: Documentarys Vessel https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vessel_(film) 12th and Delaware https://www.hbo.com/documentaries/12th-and-delaware-doc Lake of fire ( prochoice and prolife prospectives)https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lake_of_Fire_(film) Book This common secret by Susan Wicklund
As I am not from Argentina, I cannot say I have a complete understanding of the situation in that country. However, from reading quite a few articles in the past few weeks, in both English and Spanish, from both pro-life and pro-choice websites, I have been able to gain at least a rudimentary understanding, and also have a few observations that I would like to add regarding this issue.First, the basics. Under the current Argentine law, abortion is almost entirely prohibited. The only exceptions are when there is a grave threat to the life of the mother or to her physical health, and in the case of rape. Any abortions that fall into this narrow set of exceptions must be performed by a doctor, and even in these cases many doctors will refuse to perform the abortion for fear that it may be deemed illegal and they will face prosecution, or out of conscientious objection. There haven't been many prosecutions for illegal abortions in Argentina, but apparently there have been just enough for the doctors performing them to be extra careful in ensuring that they are legal under the current law. The law has been in place since 1921, and even then some provinces do not include even these exceptions, meaning that in some of the more conservative provinces, abortion is completely banned. Therefore, at the moment, Argentina is unquestionably a pro-life country.Argentina continues to be a deeply religious society, with 92% of Argentines declaring themselves Catholic in 2014. However, as in all countries, this Catholicism has been weakening in recent years, yielding way to the more secularized Catholicism now common in Western European nations, where people profess their belief in God, but rarely if ever attend church, and often do not consider Catholic teaching in forming their worldview. The same trend seems to have been happening in Argentina, and this is reflected in the views of the people as well as some recent policy decisions. Argentina legalized gay marriage in 2010, and recent polls also show that support for legal abortion is also increasing. In 2006, about 37% of Argentines supported abortion-on-demand, but more recent polls show, in some cases, over 50% support. There is also a considerable urban-rural divide; In Buenos Aires, two-thirds of respondents supported liberalizing the current law, while in more rural and conservative areas, a similar proportion is against.The proposed law would replace the law from 1921, and would enable abortion on demand up to 14 weeks gestation, and longer in the cases under which it is currently allowed. Since around 90% of abortions are carried out in the first trimester in the US, this means that the vast majority of abortions would now be legal. The first vote in the Chamber of Deputies is scheduled for the upcoming Wednesday, June 13. If the legislation passes it will then move to the Senate. The President has already said he will not veto any legislation on abortion that comes to his desk, despite being personally pro-life.The passage of the law is by no means certain, and may even be a bit of a long shot. Even pro-choice campaigners admit that in the Chamber of Deputies a slight majority of MPs likely oppose the measure and are placing their hope in a group of around 20-30 MPs who either remain undecided or have not disclosed how they will vote. And if (and it's a big if) the measure passes the Lower House, it will likely face even stiffer opposition in the Senate, where rural, more conservative provinces are more highly represented. Still, even if the measure fails, it will still be a setback for the pro-life side, albeit not a defeat, because just the fact that such a measure was up for debate, and the vote was close, coupled with the most recent opinion polls, clearly shows that opinions on abortion are shifting, and sadly not in our preferred direction. Some feminist groups who are already bracing for defeat this time around are already commenting on the "progress" they've made around the issue, and point to the example of Uruguay which legalized abortion in 2012 after several failed debates in Congress. As such, they suggest that in several years the situation will be very different, and sadly if the current trends continue they may well be right.Much of the blame for this sad shift in opinion lies in the third-wave feminists who have painted abortion as purely a woman's issue, completely ignoring the humanity of the unborn child. Also, the Ni Una Menos (Not One Less) campaign, which started in 2015 as a protest against sexual assault and domestic violence, and has even been called the Spanish-speaking world's equivalent of the MeToo movement, has for the most part fully endorsed abortion as part of its platform, with some of the more vocal supporters going so far as to compare banning abortion with torture. Additionally, "reproductive rights" groups like Planned Parenthood and Marie Stopes have been very active in Latin America, often operating secret abortion clinics and selling abortifacient drugs. The narrative is always the same: a country has a relatively low abortion rate until one of these groups enters the country and spends the millions of dollars it collects from governments and wealthy international donors to openly promote abortion and open backstreet clinics. Then after a few years, the abortion rate goes up and the argument is used that banning abortion doesn't affect how often it occurs. In truth, this is very difficult to conclusively determine because illegal abortion numbers are obviously estimates, which may or may not be accurate, but either way, these organizations' plan is always to flood the countries with abortifacients and secret abortion clinics, and then expect the national governments to reward them by fully legalizing abortion, so that they can now operate in the country freely and within the confines of the law. Such a strategy has been employed in many, mostly developing countries, and unfortunately over time many countries eventually end up caving in to these demands. I could go on and on about the intricacies of the situation. For one thing, I am very disappointed by Pope Francis' silence, first with regards to the abortion referendum in Ireland and now with a similar situation occurring in his own country, but I'll save the remainder of my criticism for a future post. Let us hope that the Argentine lawmakers do not cave in to pressure from the elites, the media, and the international pro-choice community, and that this bill is defeated so that life can continue to be protected in Argentina, and so that Latin America continues to be a leader in protecting the rights of the unborn.

God bless them, this made me cry....

This sounds like a pretty loaded question. Regardless of whether or not there's a good solution to this problem, it won't change the fact that abortion is wrong and should be illegal. Even if we were to end up with thousands of neglected and unwanted children by stopping abortion, it still wouldn't justify killing them to fix it.
This for sure. When I’m asked this question by someone pro-abortion I always tell them that just because I think domestic abuse is wrong doesn’t make me personally responsible for caring for an abused spouse.
Absolutely. And on top of that, how do they know the effects of making abortion illegal—(is it based on anything?) Is it just their assumption that there will be a drastic rise in unwanted children?  Birth control isn’t going anywhere, there are many methods of preventing pregnancy with 99% effectiveness, do they know how legality affects the perception and likelihood of abortion vs illegality?  How much does cultural acceptance of abortion influence personal behavior and choice?
Yeah all those children who were starving in the streets of America before Roe V Wade. Good thing we got rid of them, eh? But seriously the fact that we might have "thousands of neglected and unwanted children" (in addition to those children who are already neglected and unwanted) is just a testament to callousness of the pro-choice position, and of our culture in general. If we can't kill our children, we'll just abandon them!
To be fair, the question asks "if abortion was stopped" not "if abortion was made illegal." Before RvW, abortion was pretty damn common.
But what else would they mean by was stopped?
"Stopped" implies actually prevented from happening. Something that was not achieved prior to RvW. A world without abortion would look very very different to a world where abortion is illegal but still prevalent.
The backed up,  years-long list of couples signed up to adopt babies will be able to get them right away rather than waiting for years. I don't foresee an increase in neglect  at all.
...lol at the mostly pro-choice people talking
That was pretty much my take on the thread in /r/AskReddit.  They're too busy making Jonathan Swift jokes and echo chambering their reasons for justifying it, that I barely saw any actual pro-life answers to the question before I gave up trying to read it all.
I saw a lot of “pro-life” people who think abortion is bad but don’t care whether anyone else has an abortion.
At some level, I sympathize.  For instance, I don't like most recreational drugs, especially the really addicting ones, but it becomes for me a matter of as long as they keep it in private and don't have their work affected or their driving, etc. then I think it is probably better to let them go at it instead of throwing them in jail. But with abortion, they're killing a third person, and that can't fly, as much as I would rather let them be.  Unfortunately, many of those folks can't see the difference. I also suspect that their distaste for abortion might quickly evaporate if they found themselves discomfited by their "pro-life" position.
I agree completely.  If it’s not a life, then let people do what they want.
I agree with the earlier commenters that there would need to be more support for young families, etc. The care for human life doesn’t end when the child is born. (What?!?! A prolife Democrat?!?! Lol, there are a few of us - “few” meaning, “25-30% of democrats”.) Secondly, the solution to societal ills has never been death. We don’t terminate neglected or unwanted children after they’re born. Why before? There’s nothing magical about the vagina that bestows personhood as you pass through it. Thirdly, there are plenty of people who think they don’t want their child and then discover that they do. And there are plenty of people who thought they wanted children and then realize they didn’t. It doesn’t change the inherent value and dignity of the child in question. The best solution would be to legally protect the life of the child AND to provide support and financial assistance to new parents that need it. It’s not either-or.
As a conservative elementary school teacher, I love this!! We must take care of our children!! Unfortunately parents have gotten very lax on parental responsibility....the solution is not to kill the children. The parents and children need our support! With “helping” parents, I’d like to see parenting classes and job training....not enabling hand-outs. Teach them to fish so they can eat for a lifetime!! We definitely need to break the cycle at some point!!
Here's what I posted: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/16/magazine/study-women-denied-abortions.html In a recent study, over 90% of women who were denied an abortion chose to carry their babies to term and raise them. In fact, only 9% chose adoption. What this means is that most women--once they carry to term--will willingly keep and take care of their newborns rather than place them for adoption. In addition, there is an estimated 2 million couples currently waiting to adopt in the United States — which means there are as many as 36 couples waiting for every one child who is placed for adoption. See here: https://www.americanadoptions.com/pregnant/waiting_adoptive_families Our adoption services still need to be reformed, but there're so many infertile, loving couples out there that the influx of new babies from outlawing abortion shouldn't be a problem. After all, there weren't thousands of neglected and unwanted children prior to the relatively recent decision of Roe v Wade in 1973.
That thread was already pretty saturated by the time I saw it, but I'll give my honest response here.  I'm pro-life, atheist, small government libertarian. I think one of the few functions government should serve is to stop people from killing each other, hence they should prevent abortion. I also think people having sex who aren't ready for kids should use lots and lots of birth control, then we'll have less of an issue.  The government should stay the heck out of people's decision to use birth control.  (note that's not the same as asking for universal healthcare, free birth control, or requiring insurance companies to subsidize birth control.  They should just stay out of the way and let the companies that will subsidize it compete with the ones who won't; let drug manufacturers compete with each other on price too). Government should also reduce barriers around adoption.  Obviously they need some regulation to make sure you're not using fake adoptions for sex trafficking or something, but other than that, stay the heck out of it.  If an agency doesn't want to adopt babies off to gay couples, that's fine.  Just make sure an agency that will adopt to gay couples has a level playing field so they can enter the market and take all that business the other companies are passing up on. Ok so we've criminalized abortion and made it easier for gay couples to adopt.  But, there's still a lot of kids who won't get adopted.  Wut do?  I'm actually not opposed to increasing spending (and therefore taxes) to pay for that.  I'm happy to take a callous attitude towards adults who can't support themselves financially, but kids don't have much of a say in the matter.  I'd rather see our taxes go up than see them starve.
Sounds like one of those questions with a narrative like "pro-lifers of Reddit, if ur so concerned bout babies dying why is it u don't take care of them?" Also it's just a bunch a pro-choicers there, is kinda depressing.
Yeah it was pretty pathetic but mostly just sad, I don’t understand how people can be, I don’t know just inhuman in their total lack of empathy or respect for life... (I know that not all pro-choicers are like that, but some of these people honestly sound psychopathic) I couldn’t read too much or I start to loose faith in humanity
The complete answer would be much too long to provide in a Reddit comment so I will just summarize it with two words: Conservative reform. People need to start embracing conservative values and stop rushing to have children. People need to learn that bringing a new life into this world is not a game and is a very serious thing that requires extensive planning and preparation. We have to eliminate the liberal "if it feels good, do it" attitude that so many youth in our country have. Instead of trying to "ensure the welfare of thousands of neglected and unwanted children", we prevent unwanted and neglected children from being brought into existence in the first place. People should not conceive children unless they do want them and are prepared to care for them. People need to learn moderation and self-control. Sex is much more than just mindless sensual indulgence.
I expect that if you sort by controversial you'll finally get somewhere. Also, apparently welfare for the poor is fine but for children it's not? smh
Some people only put up for welfare for the poor because they can see them and feel sorry for them, or because they want to make sure they don't become disruptive.  This allows them to think of themselves as good people. Many of them would probably have preferred to kill those poor people before they were "people" so that they didn't have to think about it, and they could save their tax money for important things, like sweet tickets to sports games, a nice car, and maybe some more weed.
Reddit in general has an incredibly disturbing attitude towards death. Have you noticed how often they argue for the right to die, whether it's about euthanasia or about how they're angry people want to keep anyone from killing themselves, through both intervention and basic psychological health? Have you noticed how eager they are to use death as a solution for the infirm (i.e. individuals with developmental problems), and to use eugenics to alter the population? It seems to me that reddit is overpopulated by people that wish to die. I posit that this "kill the poor" attitude is an expression of their desire for death. That they are compromised enough to think it's better to literally be dead than to make any attempt at life. They are so wrapped up in their own priviledged melodrama that they don't understand how anyone with difficulties could have any quality of life whatsoever.
You said it. It informs the place's entire sense of "humor" (haha I'm worthless and I wanna die haha, me too thanks) and common position on pretty much any ethical debate you can think of. It must come from a place of suffering, but I don't know what to say without coming across as fake because I don't know them, or making it worse because I have low emotional intelligence. So I pray for them - but of course, though I believe they can still have an effect, "thoughts and prayers" are the easy way out and I could be doing a lot more. Does anyone have advice on how I can respond to these people in an actually helpful way?
The comments that crack me up the most are "I don't understand as a pro-life person why other pro-life people don't believe in some abortions". Like, dude. You're pro-choice if you think people should choose to have an abortion. I'm glad others are calling them out on it.
Ah, the old “fellow conservatives” move...
r/AsABlackMan is an appropriate subreddit to link here.
Here's a sneak peek of /r/AsABlackMan using the top posts of the year! #1: As a Cambodian/Vietnamese man... | 16 comments#2: We Blacks have woken up and are understanding just how the #DNC did all they could to keep us in Ghettos and embrace a "loser mentality" .NO MORE! #BlacksForTrump | 90 comments#3: As a strong Black woman | 31 comments I'm a bot, beep boop | Downvote to remove | Contact ^^me | ^^Info | ^^Opt-out
Well that comment section was a dumpster fire. Sorting by best let me see what a bunch of pro-choicers thought. Sorting by controversial let me see a bunch of pro-choicers making the whole "pro-birth not pro-life" comment and other insulting arguments.
So we should just murder unwanted babies? You know what, I don't want or like you, so ...
This is not a very good argument. You don't want to euthanize the poor? HAVE YOU NO SOUL!?
FoR A PrO-ChOiCe ThEy ArE DiStInCt
Idk. They’re just “clumps of cells”, so does it matter? /s In all seriousness, adoption needs to be easier to afford for starters. The vetting process still needs to be stringent but money is a huge barrier for many good families. Second, this country would also have to have politicians in office who give two shits about maternal and paternal leave benefits. 1 year for each parent would be nice. Third, depending on the type of birth control, free access to birth control and expanded Medicaid benefits.
Adoption of infants is not the problem. There are almost zero infants available for adoption. It’s adoption of older children that is the issue. And adopting them is basically free. You actually get a small stipend to help pay for the basics for children that you adopt out of foster homes. But they often have behavioral or medical issues that make it harder for some families to want to adopt them.
Yes, prochoicers see the lack of adoption of 9 year olds who beat each other and steal as proof that babies won't be adopted, completely missing that there is a separate process for infants unrelated to foster care and that it takes years of waiting for a woman to choose against abortion in order to fulfill that adoption. Another point is that the most common reason children in foster care don't get adopted is that the overwhelming majority of them aren't up for adoption because their parents rights haven't been terminated, they've been suspended, and the goal is to return them to their parents at some point.
Yeah I know several people who do foster-to-adopt.  They're waiting to adopt the kids, but it's all about the parental rights termination working it's way through the courts.
What would really help would be to take a bunch of that surplus military funding and some of that Planned Parenthood money going to killing children, and drop all that stuff into daycare, special needs services, adoption agencies and schools to make them better and more affordable. In my opinion, the fact that people get abortions shows something is wrong with how we interact with the would be parents.
Amen to that. The problem with the pro-life movement is that it's been co-opted by the party that also bows to the religion of capitalism and one of the main reason's abortion is even needed is because of capitalism's demands. You think that companies now want half of their workforce to just suddenly drop everything if they get pregnant? Hell no.
I admit that I'm not big on big government, but it's certainly needed in some areas.
Adoption!
Just about anything actually. higher taxes, maternity leave, free daycare
Sounds like the people who chose to get pregnant should take god damned care of them.
Personal accountability and taking responsibility for your actions....now there’s a concept!
Someday soon we'll get back there.
I sure hope so!!!
I have not read through all of these responses so forgive me if this thought is repeated.  My thought is that some (by no means all) would be parents may be a little more careful if they knew there was not a quick fix for this unwanted pregnancy.   We live in a world of quick fixes and throw aways.  There's an "easy" solution to everything and an unwanted baby is just added to that list.
I'm just curious. I know there are many humanist organizations which stand for pro-life causes. What brings you here if you are irreligious? What changed your mind?
Athiest/Undecided here. The reason I am prolife is because I believe in a rigid, absolute moral system. One that values life above all else, and is derived from the innate rights of men as defined by Locke and other authors. With this in mind, I am prolife to the degree that no abortion is allowed unless the women’s life is in mortal danger, as the right to choice does supersede another person’s right to life.
Not trying to disagree with you here, but considering you (and pretty much everyone else) believe abortion is fine in cases where the mother's life is at risk means you don't actually hold absolute moral values on this issue. It is moral consequentialism that you and people like me maintain. The result of the act taken in its context is what matters.
Why are you acting as if there is only one possible moral value one can hold?  Apparently you think that "abortion is wrong" is the moral value in question for some reason, but what if it were instead "the only time it is moral to end someone else's life is if they threaten your own".  He can hold that as an absolute moral value...that is not consequentialism.

My point is that there is no objective criteria for what the absolute precept covers.  What we call "the action" is merely what wording we choose to describe it with, and the absolute moral principle is then applied to whatever description was chosen.  Someone could make their moral principle about "killing" full stop, but almost no one actually does that: If one person said that "killing humans" is what their absolute stance opposes and another said "killing anything living", are you going to tell me that those are not absolute moral stances because they're longer than one word long?  There is always context.  You cannot participate in language without it.
I should have stated mortal danger. Unless it is proven that the mother will die if she does not abort, it is not allowed. In the case where it is a life for a life, it’s really not up to legislation to decide which life is more valuable.
I used to believe in god and lost my faith when I was 55 years old.  I have always been anti-abortion and that did not change simply because I no longer believe.  In my opinion, it is a human rights issue.  We have,in the past, considered certain groups of human beings to be non persons African Americans, native Americans, Australian aborigines, Jews, gypsies, mentally and physically challenged, women, homosexuals.   We now look back on those times with shame and regret.  Societies that still treat these groups as second class citizens or non persons are criticized.  There will be a time when we will look back at abortion and be appalled by the cruelty. I think linking the pro life movement with religion and conservatism does it a grave disservice.  Religious people are seen by some atheists as being misled and misinformed.  Abortion is grouped into what they may think religious people are misinformed about.  Also a lot of them take it as religious people judging and trying to tell women what to do.
Because it has absolutely nothing to do with religion and everything to do with common morality.
Practicing Buddhist here. I don’t believe in a creator god. My partial understanding of the ins and outs of karma is enough to keep my squarely in the the pro life camp. People that kill babies aren’t likely to find themselves in favorable circumstances later on.
Hi! I'm an Agnostic Pro-Lifer! I used be pro choice just because im a democrat, and never really put much thought into it. However, a few years ago I read an article about a mother who threw her infant off a bridge so she could go on a date (or something along those lines) and I was obviously disgusted. But it made me question how different abortion for convenience is to that. So I started to analyze why I believed what I thought I believed, and started to look for opinions outside my echo chamber. I found that the pro life side is the morally superior side. It's immoral to kill humans. A fetus is definitely a human at some point before birth. There are no points during pregnancy that you can clearly say it is not a life/it is a life now without making the decision arbitrarily. Therefore conception is the only safe starting point of life. I randomly listened to a bunch of Ben Shapiro clips when looking for answers about this and what made the biggest impact, what made me actually listen to what he had to say, was that he kept it completely secular and he conceded hypothetical ground to debate the bigger picture. (He said something like let's agree to allow abortions for life threatening pregnancies and Rape so we can address the main reason for 98% of abortions: convenience. Can you still defend that? )
Huge respect for you for being open-minded and able to deconstruct your own beliefs and change your perspective.
Yes! Ben Shapiro is great! I was already pro-life (I always was; when I first met pro-choice people in high school, I didn't even know some people had a pro-choice view!) but his videos have been enjoyable to watch and have cemented my views on abortion (not that I ever leaned towards it being okay, though.)
Yes!  I sort of shun the labels of atheist or agnostic (mostly because people who adopt them tend to be hostile towards religion, and Christianity in particular, and I despise that attitude), but I've never been religious at all.  I was ambivalent about abortion for most of my life.  I thought it was a bad thing, but changing the law wouldn't help much and I was/am very sympathetic to the hardships pregnancy can cause.  Over time, and largely through reading Kevin Williamson, I came to be quite steadfast in defining life as starting at conception for non-religious reasons -- it may just be a "clump of cells", but it's certainly alive, its own organism, and of the species homo sapiens, and therefore a human person.  Once I got there it's pretty much the same as the religious position: as awful as the hardships pregnancy can cause are, they do not nearly approach the travesty of killing our sons and daughters at their most vulnerable.  Now I'm not nearly as sympathetic with the policy argument that the hardship pregnancy presents is too great, though I will always have a tremendous amount of personal sympathy for women in that position.  I think the temporary discomfort of pregnancy categorically pales in comparison to the value of the life of the child unless the permanent livelihood of the mother is threatened.
I'm an atheist.  I really don't see why you need to believe in a god to think that irresponsibly conceiving a kid and then killing it because its existence inconveniences you is wrong. Rape and legitimate risk to health are another issue to me though. Edit:: Just wanted to add I genuinely have no idea how pro-life came to be associated almost exclusively with religion.  Is it all about the foetus having a "soul"?  Also I've met loads of pro-choice religious people who see no contradiction in their faith and their views.  I can't help but notice everyone believes in a god who already agrees with 100% of their opinions.
Because tons of people are pro-life explicitly because of their religion, whereas while a religious person might also be pro-choice, it's generally not due to religious reasons. People who believe in god might say religion is ok, but very few people, if any, claim that god says abortion is fine and that's why it should be allowed.
I would ask: why is rape an exception for you? If killing a child is wrong, then rape doesn't make it right. Do children that were conceived in rape have less human rights than those conceived in love? Edit: This is misunderstanding why someone like me, a Catholic, believes what I do. I used to have all sorts of opinions regarding abortion, the death penalty etc, social justice, etc... But the more I engaged with the Church, the more I realized that they were right.  About everything. I don't "believe in a God who already agrees" with everything I believe. I have changed most of my personal beliefs, especially in the last 10 years, to align with what His Church teaches. Because they are right. About everything.
Hi, pro-life atheist(really an apatheist) here! I know that, at fertilization, a new individual human being, with his or her own set of DNA, comes into existence. Just because s/he or he may split into two people later doesn't mean s/he's 0 people first. This person is per science a human organism and not just a part of the mother. She or he is her/his own unique being. Fetuses are human beings.
Yes. I don’t think moral values have to include the threat of eternal damnation to be stuck to. What I believe to be Right is Right and Wrong is wrong. I was always anti-abortion if not pro-life. For me it was seeing the ultra sound of my child at 14 weeks gestation. I went into it thinking “if it’s deformed/downs/whatever we’ll abort and try again.” What I saw was a formed human the doctor woke up to get it to move for a better photo.  Me an my wife both sat there about a week after and I don’t think either of us could have made that decision if she did have any issues. On religion though. To add my tuppence worth, I think there inate damage the Religious element of the Pro-Life movement do when they cite “God” as a reason to not kill a human. “Some sky wizard tells me” isn’t as effective as making someone actually look at the simple facts of abortion and reaching that decision themselves. I very much side with Shapiro on this. When arguing with society at large it’s better to win it on a secular premise because there is no underlying dogmatic  belief system behind it willing also has to be followed.
I agree! And I am an evangelical Christian. Its also harder for me to convince people of my arguments when they root it all back to “Well, I’m not religious so I just can’t agree with you”. Pro-life atheists are NEEDED in the movement. You are essential to winning the war against the unborn.
I have this problem all the time on many fronts. I am Roman Catholic but truly believe that I have enough non-religious reasons for my views that I would stand by them even if I were not religious. For example, I strongly believe that stable family units have an important role in society, that they are not possible in the absence of a lifetime commitment i.e. marriage, and that the cultural shift in which the difference between dating and marriage becomes blurred will result in long-term damage to society. However, if I express enthusiasm about the institution of marriage or reveal that my marriage followed a traditional route in which we did not live together or have sex before marriage, people attribute it exclusively to my being Catholic like I was just following the hive mind.
Ah. Atheists can never pass up a good opportunity to make fun of their fellow religious pro-lifers by referring to the “sky wizard.” Classic.
I am a pro-life Catholic, but you'll find a fair number of agnostics/atheists here as well. While I feel very strongly about my faith, I find that citing it regarding my beliefs that abortion should be illegal typically doesn't convince pro-choicers who aren't Christian. So I argue the pro-life perspective from a secular point of view, unless it's with another Catholic. And fortunately, there are plenty of non-religious reasons to be pro-life as well; there's really no shortage of arguments on that front.
I’ve always been atheist and I’ve always been pro life. Most prolife folks are fine with my atheism, while a lot of atheists act like I’m a traitor or something.
I am now religious but was Atheist/Agnostic until I was 25. I was always pro life because I believe it is wrong to kill another human. I have always believed that "clump of cells" is human, because it will never become anything besides a living, breathing person.
Sounds exactly like the religious journey/beliefs of one of my friends. Cheers!
yea I am
me
My pro-life view has never had anything to do with any religious beliefs. I'm pro-life because science makes it clear an embryo or fetus is a unique, living human. Science does not change because it's inconvenient.
I'm no longer an atheist, but I became prolife while I was. Learning how human life begins from fertilization in biology class convinced me.
Atheist here. I am pro life for ethical reasons.
Prolife agnostic here.
Over the course of my life, I have been at different times, devoutly Catholic, less devoutly so, an atheist for a brief time, an agnostic, as well as a deist who believes in a God that is entirely apathetic about human life and existence in general, due to his infinite superiority over a lifeform as finite and primitive as the human race. At none of these times, did my views on abortion change. The issue is not religious, but moral. When does personhood begin? Do certain features have to be formed or is the fact that they will most likely form, combined with the baby's genetic code sufficient? For me, the future-like-ours argument seals the deal with respect to abortion. Some people may disagree, but I find it convincing. Pro-choicers may retort that the mere presence of a genetic code is not particularly important--however, studies over the last 50 years have shown that not only physical characteristics like height and hair color, but also far more fundamental features have a strong genetic component. Your intellligence, political views, personality, and whether you are at risk for mental illnesses like depression, as well as substance abuse, are strongly influenced by your genetic making although environment also plays a part. Sure, pro-choicers will argue that until the baby experiences cognition, there is "nothing there" so to speak but the tragedy of a lost life comes from the lost future, and the people we are now are likely considerably different from those who we will be 10 years from now, yet it is this loss of a future that makes death so tragic. And our genetic code is the only thing that remains constant throughout our lives, barring a few mutations most of which are minor and have little or no effect on phenotype. Another argument pro-choicers use is that many embryos do not make it. Basically, the statistics suggest that about 15% of recognized pregnancies end in miscarriage, while the figure may be as high as 50% for preimplantation embryos. But even if this is the case, that doesn't mean that these embryos are not worth saving and fighting for. As a thought experiment, imagine a comatose patient. The patient shows no signs of consciousness and may actually be brain dead, but a new miracle drug has been discovered that will give him or her a 50% chance of a full recovery in 9 months. Would it be ethical to unplug the patient's life support just because they have no cognitive functions right now but could in the future? I highly doubt it, and believe that most doctors would agree that every attempt must be made to preserve the individual's life. Also, the patient's family and friends would be appalled if such a decision were taken. The situation with abortion is highly analogous to such a case, and this is why ending a human life is always wrong, barring extreme circumstances (by this I mean, a threat to the life of the mother, since both mother and child are equal, and thus while we must make sure that the child is treated on an equal footing as the mother, he or she should not be treated on a superior footing; therefore, in such extreme cases as ectopic pregnancy or uterine cancer where both the mother and the child are threatened, an abortion may be morally permissible.)
Yes.
I’m an atheist and I’m pro life. I don’t think we should be removing what I believe is probably someone’s only chance at living.
Atheist here, the way I see it is you are either dead or not dead.  If your life ends when your brain stops producing brain waves your life should start when your brain starts producing brain waves.  I believe that folks deserve a grace period because we are all humans and we fuck up but that should only be up until your baby has brainwaves
Except the definition of life is not "inverse of brain death". Like I understand if you are trying to propose a personhood argument here but that statement is flat out false.
A human is either dead or not dead.  The opposite of dead is alive.  We define death in the medical field as having no brain activity.  So why is it wrong to say that if a human has brain activity they are alive?
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3005285/ Give this a read. It focuses on NASA's definition of life, and there is no mention of brain waves here. You are picking an arbitrary point in the living development of an embryo and insisting this is when it's "alive".
When talking about whether or not a human is alive or dead I don't need to know the definition of what is considered life or not.  This article even talks about that.  A cell is alive but it would not be considered a human since it doesn't have a consciousness to it (I'm assuming as an apatheist you believe consciousness is a product of your brain).  Thus, a human would be alive when it has a consciousness which i believe comes from a functioning brain.
Your comment makes no sense. The paper talks about the definition of life, not human life in particular. Being a human organism is a quality the zygote has in addition to being alive. Have you read this at all? Are you saying you believe plants aren't alive?
I believe plants don't have consciousness.  Are you saying that after you cut the head off of a snake and it still wiggles around hours after its dead that it's still an alive snake?
No. But you said this: Where is your source for this?
I'm sorry does "Thus, a human would be alive when it has consciousness" say anything about plants?  what makes a plant a plant and what makes a human a human are different i hope you know
If I am defining "life," the definition will include plants as well as animals/human beings. Biology does have a definition of "life," you know. It also has a definition for "organism" and "species," both of which the embryo qualify under scientifically. Now, again, where are your citations that a human organism begins when the brainwaves begin?

Read Francis Beckwith on this topic. Chapter 6, page 134 of “Defending Life” under the header “A critique of the anti-equality case”. Or, what you’re talking about might be better discussed starting on page 145. Or (I’m searching through the book as I type this) starting from page 154. From page 133

What industry? This article only talks about Planned Parenthood.
21%? That's more than I expected. Is this due to a decrease in total number of pregnancies or are pregnancies less likely to end in abortion?
It has more to do with the decrease in pregnancies (particularly teen pregnancies) but there's also been a decrease in the percentage of teen pregnancies ending in abortion. In the 80s about 45% of teen pregnancies were aborted, and that number has decreased over the years to around 30% now.
Not totally sure but the pregnancy rate in the US has been steadily decreasing for many years.
I’m looking fo advice, I’m doing a speech on abortion and I am Pro-life. I am conflicted on whether I should use a PowerPoint with picturesWhat I have found is that showing pictures is the one of the successful way to persuade Pro-ChoicersSome other information:I’m from the UK and I am presenting a speech to my class at my school (Year 10 which is 14-15 years old. I myself am 15), the majority of my class are Pro-Choice as well as the teacher,I have finalised my speech and I am just debating whether to design a PowerPoint with pictures along side my speechAny questions are welcomeThank You In Advance
If you don’t want to go the route of graphic pictures, there are many high quality digital illustrations of different stages of fetal development, for instance showing that the fetus has a beating heart by week 6 of pregnancy (after which the vast majority of abortions are committed). You can show how much a fetus looks like a newborn at the end of the first trimester. This would combat the idea promoted by abortion advocates that the fetus is “just a clump of cells.” Check www.whattoexpect.com and www.americanpregnancy.com.
100% agree. A lot of pro choicers, though, just think that unborn children shouldn't have rights, acknowledging that they are scientifically alive. So hopefully OP is touching upon how batshit insane that is as well.
While I think photos could be an effective persuasion tool, remember that these are people you have to see/interact with every day. You may not want to ostracize yourself
Yes, I have been nervous about the speech and my topic for ages now
What do you guys think of including a verbal warning before the pictures as a courtesy ("These next few slides contain some graphic imagery...")? I think it's a considerate thing to do for the more squeamish members of the class (these are kids after all), but would it undermine the point of including pictures in the first place?
It might undermine the purpose a little bit but I personally would appreciate a warning before, it’s just a common courtesy to those who are sensitive.
I was going to do this topic for a school speech when I was 17 with a powerpoint, but decided on animal rights instead (veganism). Just like abortion, one of the best ways to convince a person to go vegan is to show them graphic pictures. I asked my teacher whether I could show a graphic video and she agreed. I'd suggest you do the same thing, just to be on the safe side. And if your teacher says no, you could always show diagrams of the different stages of fetal development. A good way to follow up showing the different stages would be to ask the audience a rhetorical question - "at what stage here do you think it's okay to end the baby's life?" and most of the time they won't have an answer because seeing the baby makes them realise it's actually a life, you can't just pick and choose where to end it. I know you've finished writing your speech but just though that might be a nice add-on. https://youtu.be/RDmwPGrZkYs?t=199 (warning there are some graphic images, but this shows what I meant in my paragraph above)
Thank you, regardless of time I try and improve on the ways you have suggested
If the audience is mainly 14-15 year olds then I’m not sure if they can digest the more nuanced philosophical arguments so I would try to keep it simple. Here’s a brief outline of what you could do: Establish that the unborn are living human beings from fertilization. This article and this article are great examples to follow after. If by “showing pictures”, you mean that you’re allowed to display graphic images of aborted fetuses? If so, then maybe you can implement a few to reaffirm that abortion does in fact kill human beings. (But I’m not sure how effective graphic images are, so you should probably ask others here about this.) Use the equal rights argument to press your peers’ moral intuitions. Most people think they believe in human rights and equality, so emphasize that that’s incompatible with being pro-choice. Apparently this is a simple yet effective argument. If someone else in your class is presenting a pro-choice presentation, then I highly recommend that you implement some counter arguments to the basic pro-choice arguments. This article provides some nice examples for countering bodily autonomy arguments. You can also throw in that absolute bodily autonomy doesn’t exist or else fetal torture and other instances of extremism would be morally permissible, for example, a mother would be able to hire someone to cut off her unborn child’s feet to guarantee that her child has a difficult life. This presentation is another great example for why bodily autonomy doesn’t justify abortion, maybe you can shape your own presentation after it for inspiration? I’m not sure how short you are on time, but you can also demonstrate that lots of personhood arguments exclude infants from personhood as well and therefore infanticide would be permissible if you follow these arguments to their logical conclusion. This article does a decent example in showing this in a simple manner. You can also dispel common myths, like how abortion restrictions supposedly don’t work, or like how most late-term abortions are supposedly “medically necessary”. Edit: Also, emphasize that the values of the pro-life movement are grounded in equality, non-violence, and human rights.
Thank you very much for this advice, I am short on time but I will try to improve my speech in these ways
Use pictures, but seeing where you live I'd be very careful. And prepare for harsh consequences.
I live in the UK and I second this. The place is very hostile to social conservatism so do be careful not to do anything that could be used as a basis to punish you. Check with your teachers as to what sort of pictures you can use.
I also understand, I’m usually shunned for my views But the only problem with asking my teacher is that she is Pro-Choice
If she’s pro-choice she likely might not allow the pictures. That would suck, but remember it’s just a school debate. There will be many more important opportunities in your life to defend the Pro-Life cause. It will be a lot worse if you go ahead with the pictures without checking with her first and then run into some sort of trouble. These guys can be vicious about these things. So it’s still advisable to check with her.
Her views should be irrelevant when it comes to discussion in the class. She shouldn’t be allowing one student special treatment by providing them a safe space to express their opinions and not allow the same for you just because she disagrees.
70% of the Brits agree with abortion if the woman does not want to be pregnant, you could why Western Europe is so prochoice compared to US, South America, Africa  etc http://www.natcen.ac.uk/blog/british-attitudes-to-abortion.
You can use prezi.com its a cool way to make presentations that engage an audience.
I advise giving a verbal description of procedures rather than pictures, since this is for school. I also STRONGLY suggest you watch this video for the very novel and persuasive argument strategy it provides: https://youtu.be/joaTrukxKag
https://prolifetraining.com/resources/five-bad-ways/ is a good start if your audience is 14-15 year olds.
Some good resources available here, https://www.endthekilling.ca/classroom http://www.ehd.org/resources_bpd_illustrated.php?page=6 Choose which pictures to show wisely. I think I would first show the human fetus or baby at different stages of development and then add a couple of dead preborn children at the end. Perhaps a video showing the actual abortion procedure but I doubt that would be okayed by your teacher. Don’t be afraid of the controversy. People will try to blame you, point fingers and the like. Remember that it’s just a strategy to silence you. Don’t be silenced. Be strong in the face of hatred. But don’t be hateful back. Be empathetic but stand your ground.
Thank you, I have been nervous about my topic choice for a long time, others have come up to me and I’ve already had countless snap-debates
I think it’s a good thing because you are getting them to think about a topic that they would otherwise avoid or be apathetic about. Just don’t get emotional, know your arguments and know when to walk away from the discussion (for example if the prochoicer is constantly trying to go off topic). Always be friendly, charitable and courteous. Don’t start discussing religion or samesex marriage because that’s a divergence tactic. I don’t know what it is but it seems like the topic of abortion is always turned into some other anti religion argument. So know all the secular views. Just stick to the course that all living and innocent human beings are equal and deserve equal human rights, including the right to life (the right to not be killed). It’s also ok to agree to disagree. People do not all have to have the same views. We should all be Respectful if that. I think you will do great and I admire your courage.
Don't include any pictures of dogs or you might go  to jail.
This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.

They tried, the Democrats are intent on blocking all of them
How? The Democrats are a minority in both houses. The GOP can pass anything if it really wants to. Blessed is the one who perseveres under trial
You need 60 votes in the senate to pass most bills, Republicans have 51.
Nuclear option, no?
That’s currently only for Judges, to change this for all senate votes, you’d need 67 votes 😬
Democrats will fillibuster any bill that displeases their masters (Planned Parenthood). We don't have the 60 votes needed to shut them up (yet).
I admire your optimism
To end a filibuster in the senate you need a 60 vote majority, so the democrats could easily filibuster any attempt to pass pro life legislation in the senate, and while the house would pass things easily, you need both chambers of Congress before it goes to the president to sign.

Great post OP. I am sure the community here is shaken to its core by the comparison of a person executed after rigorous due process in the legal system with an early human life with no crimes to its name written out of existence after no due process in law. Needless to say, there are many people who are pro-life and oppose capital punishment.
No one is going to make an argument that a fetus is too dangerous to be left alive.
What percentage of serial murders are carried out by unborn children again? I mean it's gotta be pretty low given the whole "We're babies" thing.
capital punishment are two completely separate kettles of fish. We could throw the reverse right back at you "pro-choicers are ok with killing innocent babies but not convicted murderers!". Which we don't, because we aren't cretinous; even if that statement is more accurate than yours.
Let me know when the baby has been convicted of rape or incest in a trial by jury of their peers, and then I'll support executing it. As far as I know, there has never been a single abortion where such was the case.
One is the unjust killing of a human being. The other is the just killing of a human being. The unjust killing of a human being is murder. Murder is wrong. There is no contradiction.
strawman_you_got_me.jpg
In most developed nations with modern prison systems there's no need to execute dangerous criminals, you can just monitor and isolate them forever, and that's why I'm anti death penalty. So. Find a new bone to pick
An Innocent life is different than a person legally convicted of murder.
I'm not in favor of the death penalty, but I've always understood that the reasoning was somewhat different in justifying it as opposed to abortion. Assuming they are actually guilty of a heinous crime, and not unjustly convicted, they did make choices that got them where they are.  Unborn children have no choices, even about who they are being carried by.  That's considerably different. But, as it stands, it certainly makes the argumentation easier when I don't have to waste time explaining that to someone else why I support the death penalty while being pro-life, because I don't support the death penalty. I'd also point out that whether or not the pro-death penalty/anti-abortion position may have dissonance doesn't change the truth value of the pro-life position if it is properly argued.

Very sad.

Disgusting comment


Aside from the aspect of using the genetic material from three people, the reality is that this method actually makes two children and dissects one to produce the effect. So, this is effectively an abortion and genetic modification of the resulting human with the killed human's genetic material. This is one of the perverse results of the same mindset that gives us abortions.  People's very lives are going to be mix and match accessories for people who want designer children.
Thanks for explaining it. That is horrifying.

I did say "effectively".

Technically correct.  But this and abortion are both, in fact, murder. Murder by dissection isn't any better than abortion by medication or procedure in utero.
Ok, fair. It's killing a human being then.
Abortion is killing an unborn child. The only difference here is the reason behind the murder.
Words have meanings. A salpingectomy for ectopic pregnancy is not an abortion. The destruction of a zygote in a lab is not an abortion. Performing a D&C on a twin pregnancy is one abortion, not two. This is not a debate, this is a definition.
"Words have meaning" Largest dictionary in the human language: You: "I don't like that definition, can we use one from a book no one reads instead? It fits my narrow worldview" "Words have meaning unless I say I don't like the meaning they take, words only have the meaning I want them to have" That's not the meaning of the word, words have meanings. "Induced expulsion of a human fetus" (quotation from the definition) covers every single case you've mentioned. The worlds most respected dictionary disagrees with you.
See, this is what I'm most confused about. ...that's simply not true.  The thing that this initial case discussed, which was the destruction of a zygote that has never seen the inside of a uterus, is not covered by that definition.
Yes, yes they do, here let me cite it for you. Now, onto your false statements which fly in the face of the meaning of the word abortion (I know how you love definitions) and your own definition. Yes it is. It is an abortion under not only the dictionary definition but yours as well. Your definition: Is it a pregnancy? Yes. (You yourself admitted that). Is it termination? Unless the child is able to survive the operation it is 100% an abortion. Yes it is, laws have been used to put barriers in place on such behavior for a reason. It is only recently - due to people trying to legalize abortion and muddying the terminology in the process - that "zygote" and "embyro" were segregated in the context of abortion. You'll note that the dictionary keeps track of the original meaning: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/embryo It is one procedure, it is two abortions. Again, the dictionary definition: Note the language here (words have meaning) it's not: It is singular for a reason, words have meaning, please don't make up definitions. I'm so very glad I could clear up the definition for you, remember this isn't a debate it's a definition (and I'm so happy I could read it to you!). As technology advances (we once didn't even have WORDS for a zygote) we'll begin accounting for things like ectogenesis in our regular speech, however until then remember that we live in the technological era and words are shifting in meaning rapidly.
This is a bizarre conversation and I'm not sure how to engage in it further.  What am I supposed to say? This is basic first-year med school stuff? Please refer to Chapter 6 of Williams Gynecology, Third Edition, page 137?  "Abortion is defined as the spontaneous or induced termination of a pregnancy before fetal viability." I agree, with your strained interpretation, that the Merriam-Webster definition is lacking.  It would be less open to misinterpretation if it had said "the death of the embryo or fetus, or embryos or fetuses."  I'll note that it says "the termination of a pregnancy."  Thus, a selective reduction is not an abortion, as it does not terminate a pregnancy. Incidentally, a twin gestation is one pregnancy.  Or do you think somebody who had sex once, had a gravid uterus for nine months, and then delivered two babies at once was pregnant twice? Again, is is not the same as =.  It is not commutative.  Otherwise my statement would be trivially false -- a cesarean section also ends a pregnancy. Heck, a termination of pregnancy at 26 weeks isn't considered an abortion, as it is after fetal viability. I'm not really inclined to reply to this much further.  I mean, how would I?  It's not like there's a way to reason you to accept my definition.  There isn't a way for you to reason me to accept your definition.  This word is within my domain -- not as somebody who performs abortions, but as a gynecologist.  You are free to misuse it, but it has a technical definition and ob/gyns aren't likely to adopt yours anytime soon. EDIT: hey, I just realized.  You noticed the M-W definition you cited excludes destruction of a zygote in a lab? Second edit: man, I'm bad at predicting what I'm inclined to keep interacting with. No... no it's not only recently.  The definition of these things in obstetrics and gynecology has been fixed for a long time.  The explanations you need to make about "shifting definitions" are only because you're trying to shift it to fit your ends.
Medical definitions are different from the definitions used in general speech, context matters. By your flawed logic I could bring in the legal definition of abortion as well. My interpretation relies on the strict dictionary definition - the one used in general speech, you're relies on a very specific definition, it's akin to saying "Let's use the legal definition because it fits my view point!" More people will interpret the word using the meaning of the Merriam Webster definition rather than that of the medical definition. Translation: "Words have meanings, I mean kind of, if they line up with my interpretation." Words have meaning, you don't get to bend the dictionary to your will. Again you're highlight an unnecessary characteristic that flies in the face of basic human understanding. By your interpretation if I take a 3 month old pre-born and put him in an artificial womb and them perform a D&C it's "not abortion" and suddenly everyone who opposes abortion will applaud it right? After all they were only against abortion. If removing the baby from the mother and then performing abortion procedures on it isn't "abortion" then what is it? I have already explained this to you, you are fundamentally forcing an incorrect interpretation of words - spitting on standard language, and the largest dictionaries of the English language in the process. Yes, it's also a pregnancy of two unborn children, which will produce the remains of two unborn children after curettage has been performed twice, thus matching the definition of a renowned centuries old dictionary that has become the hallmark of understanding human speech, so much so that when people use big words they were often insulted by being called "Webster". Again you fail at basic reading comprehension, the dictionary definition again because Words Have Meaning: This is incorrect, these are called Late Term Abortions which is commonly used vernacular in the English language. Words have meaning, stop trying to erase words and phrases from the human language. Here, allow me to quote the University of Vermont: So you're blatantly wrong, not only is that called abortion, but it has it's very own classification within the context of the English language. Yes, it would be tremendously embarrassing for you to continue this charade. You could start by understanding the point of words is to communicate, you could then to proceed to understand that using a niche definition over the definition used by most human beings to silence others is childish and invalid, then you could try explaining how D&C suddenly becomes totally acceptable as soon as you extract the child from the womb because it's "not abortion". I covered this (see my earlier citation), most English speaking human beings don't use language that specific, Embryo has commonly meant: You do not define language, there is not a committee which defines human speech, words evolve change and update according to how they're used. Playing this game of niche definitions is childish and pointless, by your logic a Lawyer and a Gynecologist could never have a discussion on abortion because both would be obligated to push their relative "domains". The overwhelming majority of the human race, the people who abortion disgusts tremendously, and the entirety of everyone in the legal profession will also not use yours. I have already explained which you have not refuted why your definitions were wrong even using your own flawed definition.
The removal of a fetus from an artificial womb would not be an abortion.  If you are opposed to it, chances are you aren't "only against abortion."  It also... wouldn't be a D&C?  I mean, what would you dilate?  Why would you curette? I'm going to go way out on a limb here and guess you've never curetted a uterus.
It absolutely would and the definition will be updated for future usage, although it's clear you meant "Words have meaning, unless one the largest most respected dictionaries in the English language disagrees with me, then it only has the meaning I want it to have." I understand this isn't your field (it's much closer to mine, so I suppose I should inject tremendous amounts of arrogance and ignore the dictionary?) but you'll still need to expose an opening in the Artificial Womb and scrape out all the body parts. You really struggle with this whole concept of words changing in definition with new technology. I'm going to go out on a limb here and say you've never worked on an artificial womb. I guess this implies that your opinion is worthless, aren't fallacies and arrogance fun? The fact of the matter is this: You said "Words have meaning" but then refused to acknowledge the most common meaning of the word in the English language choosing instead to say "the definition everyone else uses it's wrong, it's only MY definition that's accurate". You choose to cite some arbitrary text book (with likely little to no peer review process) over what is perhaps the most respected dictionary in the English language, yeah words have meaning and you don't get to erase them just because you don't like them. Words have meaning yes, but guess what - meanings change, we're talking about world changing science here (Again, as a scientist this is much closer to my field than yours). Perhaps it's just not a place for a simple gynecologist to comment? After all you have no formal training in this kind of science :)
Again, pro-lifer here, but after reading this conversation, you're the only one that has consistently come off as repeatedly and annoyingly snide in this exchange.

Look, I'm pro-life, but this line of argument is just plain bad. How the vast majority of lay people use a word is helpful to know, but it doesn't dictate the definition of a word; in fact it's a distinct possibility that most people may be misusing a word.
The only value of words is to communicate, that's the purpose of language. When I say "No one" I mean every single piece of literature on this planet from scientific essays to novels - no one absolutely no one uses the words the way he insinuates they should be used. Coming up with arbitrary meanings for words works counter to the purpose of language. The medical definition is a niche definition, this person actually argued that killing a baby after 26 weeks isn't abortion and you think I'm the one who needs to read a dictionary? Again, we wouldn't use the Legal Definition, nor the Scientific Definition without context so quoting your (highly likely biased) gynecology textbook over the dictionary definition which he scoffed at is no better. At which point the dictionaries will be updated and the meaning of the word will change - because that's how language work. The idea of 'contains' being used transitively in the human language is the most idiotic thing I've ever heard in my entire life, again: No one says "you have a lake containing whale intestines", not in any legislation, not in science, not in medicine, no where is such language used.
This portion is so laughable that I believe it deserves it's own comment: http://lmgtfy.com/?q=What+is+%22late+term+abortion%22
Yes, I agree that this conversation can be summed up as: "I have two degrees and a residency in this." vs "I Googled this."
Ah the argument of authority, what a fantastic fallacy you have there. "I don't need to have an argument because I have a degree, I paid for the right to never have to actually have a debate" Where in your degree does it say the the dictionary definition of words is now worthless? Where in your degree does it say that you can ignore the language of the entire human populace because it isn't defined according to your niche? Words have meaning, the dictionary exists for a reason, use it.
It's worth mentioning here that I'm also amazed with how you're willfully misinterpreting the dictionary definition, which specifies that it's the termination of the pregnancy.  Somebody with a fetal demise at 32 weeks, for example, is still pregnant until they're delivered.  (This is biologically quite important.)

"Late Term abortions aren't a word anymore and don't have any meaning because they're not in my 'Crushing baby skulls 101' textbook" Honestly when will you just admit that you want a very narrow definition to be used so that you can dehumanize the unborn? You want to be able to rip them limb from limb so you don't want the definition of abortion to be as it is in standard language, you also want words like "Late Term Abortions" erased.
Well so is birth or a c-section. It has a bit more specific meaning than that.

That is not the dictionary definition, that is your flawed definition created to dehumanize unborn children.
That's why he said it's effectively an abortion.
I’m aware that he said that.
Then why did you completely ignore that part?
There are many things that I don't reply to at any given time.
You didn't even reply to what he did say, though.
What an interesting idea, that I can hit reply, type something, and not have replied. EDIT: more interestingly, a takeaway from this is that y'all see abortion as something that happens to a fetus (or embryo, or blastocyst, or zygote), and I see it as something that a pregnant person chooses to do to their pregnancy.
Sounds like a good thing because we can create genetically superior children who wont have to be ugly or short or deformed. But on the other hand genetic diversity is important.
"Genetically superior children"? Who exactly determines who is "superior"? I am for the eradication of disease in children but a child who is "ugly" or deformed still is still a child like anyone else. I find it disturbing that you include ugly as a catergory. These kids have a right to life and have value as do non-ill children. Thinking of people in terms of "superiority" and "inferiority" only leads to the dehumanization of peoples. Also, OhNoTokyo gives a good point on how this procedure is essentially an abortion in that it kills another child to produce the results. It would be wrong to advocate modifications to unborn children that includes killing other children and try to make them "superior" based on some kind of artificial basis. I would say if you can undo genetic diseases for the unborn without killing other kids or trying to change them make them into "superior" people would be ok.
I'm not saying that ugly people are worth less than good looking people or anything. Its just ugly and/or deformed people will be heavily discriminated against by society. Do you really want to put a person through that? Also I believe that not everyone is "equal". Equal in rights maybe but not in size, strength, looks, intelligence, etc. Also I don't think there's anything wrong with trying to create a superior kid if it weren't at the cost of another life. Why wouldn't you want your child to have every advantage? The only argument against this is that genetic diversity is a good thing.
Isn't the problem with society, not with the child? We should be focusing on making the world a better place, not ending "ugly" people. Also, who is defining what is ugly or unattractive? Those sound very much like subjective criteria. I would like my child to have more options in life, but if it involves changing them on a genetic level to give them those advantages, then I would say no. If I ever get married and have a kid, I would want my child to be the way God made them (unless there is a preventable genetic disease). I would not try and change them to look more attractive or have more muscle mass or try to make them more intelligent. I don't think I should have any control over what my child will be like physically, I only control with the natural luck of the draw. If I don't like freckles, blond hair, green eyes, and my kid has them it would make no difference to me. They are my kids.
Sure we should focus on society but those changes aren't happening anytime soon. As for what's considered attractive and unattractive I believe biology has a large part to do with it. Bigger, taller guys with strong jawlines, high cheekbones good eye area, and facial symmetry seems to be a pretty universal ideal for men. Personally I have no problem with changing my kid to be superior. I mean if you have the opportunity to give them the best, why wouldn't you?
The compilation is OC although most of it is just an NPR article and some Vatican documents


now thats racist
Downvote for racism, you help all babies because all babies deserve life, this "their lives need special detail if they're x color" is bigoted. This approach is dangerously divisive. Love all the babies, regardless of how they look.

More Evil from the most Evil "company" today...
We're not even surprised at this point.
You're telling me an organization that kills babies and sells their body parts is made up of ethically unscrupulous people??? I don't understand
Again.
I emailed my congress members, and I got two responses. One of them, senator Dean Heller, who is against PP, pointed to their pro life voting record and said they plan on continuing this. The other, a huge supporter of PP, gave a response about how PP “helps many people” and completely avoids the issue entirely. She also spouted the debunked “3%” stat for abortions. My message said nothing about abortion or about family planning services. I simply said I think Planned Parenthood and any other entity suspected of failing to address child sexual abuse should have funding suspended until they are fully investigated, that no one should be above the law especially when it comes to protecting children. The senator that gave this idiotic response is senator Catherine Cortez Masto. Let that sink in: there are lawmakers out there who are so obsessed with abortion and planned Parenthood that they are willing to allow them to continue to ignore clearly established, reasonable guidelines for reporting sexual abuse so they can continue to exist no matter what.

While I agree with the content of the tweet, especially in context, it seems sad to me that this sort of sentiment is selectively applied. We ought to act against trafficking surely, but ought we not act against the termination of said children in the womb? Or against allowing children to kill themselves when “it’s not worth it anymore”. We ought to support actions supported by our political enemies when they are saying what is right. Our opponents are not wrong because they are the opposition, they are wrong because they do not consistency apply their rhetoric to all stages of life, from conception to natural death. I am sympathetic to anyone, liberal or conservative, atheist or religious, gay or straight, that is willing to withstand the stigma of being vocally pro-life in a society that despises anyone who holds such thoughts. Because other differences aside, we recognize that life is inherently valuable, and can not be taken away lightly. We are all unique. And we must protect each other, especially those who cannot defend themselves.
The irony of these words coming out of the mouth of a woman who supports abortion till birth is almost comical.
Sigh, this isn't new policy, this has always been a thing, it happened under Obama just as well. You don't get to commit a felony and maintain custody of your child, children don't go to prison and you do - because YOU'RE a felon. No sympathy for criminals, move along.
I gaurentee you have broken several laws in your life, and just haven't gotten caught.
I’m a liberal and of course as a liberal I was always pro choice. After nearly 30 years on this earth, I’ve changed my mind after seeing debate after debate on Reddit. I’m now pro life with few exceptions. I’m still liberal every other way, but on this one issue I go against most of my fellow liberals. Any other liberals here?So don’t ever back down debating. Eventually someone who is staunchly pro choice could decide you were right all along.
Although I don't really consider myself much of what you'd call a modern progressive, I have always respected that modern progressive thought usually favored an expansion of human rights, rather than an exclusive view. So, I have always felt like the pro-life position is a natural position to hold from that perspective. And yes, there certainly are liberal folks on this board who are pretty liberal in almost every way.  I don't agree with everything they might be thinking, but I am happy to have them on the side of these kids, and I am happy to see you here too.
The problem is the clash between it and the expansion of women's rights.
I feel like if the people you're killing are almost 50% female (and more than that in China and India), that's not a win for females, its only a win for the subset of women who managed to survive... maybe. Being a woman can, in many respects, be challenging in our society, particularly in regards to pregnancy, and I don't want to downplay that. Still, I feel like they could have worked on solutions to that issue which don't involve killing human beings to solve the "problem". It's a solution, yes.  But not a progressive one.
Well Margaret Sanger was pro life and was going down exactly the path you described, empowering women without abortion, just through birth control. People constantly shit on her on this subreddit, calling her a racist eugenicist as if it has any bearing on PP today.
Taking what you said at face value, then perhaps she would be upset to see the road that PP has gone down today. I will say that eugenics was considered "science" back in the day, and was very influential and popular.  So I usually take that into account when talking about someone like Sanger. One might suggest that Sanger may have reformed her view in the present day, but PP is still holding on to the vestiges of that unfortunate period.
No offense but she got a medal from hitler. She knew what she was doing
She also got an award from MLK jr.
How so?
Its a big deal to be able to control what happens to your own body.
Right, but once you're pregnant, it's not just your body; It's also the body of a helpless child who's dependent on you.
Yes that is the basic disagreement of the abortion debate.
The basic disagreement is over whether or not that life inside of the pregnant woman is a person or not. Save for a few extremists, I've not encountered a pro-abortion advocate that agrees on the person-hood of the infant but argues it is still the woman's right to kill it.
I’ve talked with a pro-choice person who is against abortion “when it is a person” but when I asked “when, specifically, do they become a person?” this was their answer: So, it is a matter of perspective? Someone can be a person and not a person at the same time? They believed that the development of a human being could be compared to grains of sand forming a heap or drops of water forming an ocean. Obviously I don’t believe that you can compare it to anything, there is nothing comparable to human life. Is this what you run into, or is there a specific point where they usually decide it that it is a person?
Do humans deserve the right to develop? Do they have a right to life? I think that is the crux of the debate.
Control....This is a loaded word. Do we really have control over biology? Does a woman control the process of fertilization, implantation, conception? No, she has no control over her pregnancy, because she has no control over biology.  But she does have the power to demand a termination. That’s a big difference. We don’t control life. But we have the power to terminate a life instead of allowing it to live. “Control” is an illusion.
Yes, others are here! HIII!!! I am "liberal" on pretty much everything except abortion. My only exceptions are life of the mother, and i'm on the fence about the rape exception, unless the victim is pretty young. I believe that consenting to sex is consenting to the possibility of procreation, and with rape, that consent never really happened...but I also don't believe innocent people should die because their "parent" committed a crime. I would be super interested to know which arguments really spoke to you the most. and most importantly....WELCOME!!!!!
YES. I am told I want to police women's bodies and make sure us ladies never have sex because I'm a misogynist when I point this out. Sex makes babies. That's the point!
Right! Obviously you can and should be able to have sex for other reasons, by you can't just opt out of biology. It will always carry that risk.
I don't see how that matters at all though, even if you consider it consent to getting pregnant, it isn't consent to staying pregnant. Consent can be revoked.
Do you consent to other aspects of your biology? Did you consent to puberty? What about harmful biology, do people consent to cancer? It’s a silly notion.
I agree it's a silly notion to say that you consent to pregnancy, my point was that even if you accept that, consent can still be revoked so it doesn't matter.
just because you can terminate a life doesn’t mean that you should...
Did I imply that?
maybe I’m just getting lost in semantics, but when you use the word “consent” there is an implication that it is fair and just for a person to exercise their freedom to consent to the thing in question, be it for or against, either determination is acceptable. Which would fit if you are pro-choice
Sure, I would agree with that. Which is why I am say that even if you want to consider a woman having sex as consenting to pregnancy, it still doesn't really matter because you can always revoke consent. But also, it doesn't really make sense to say that someone consented to get pregnant in the first place, that just doesn't really apply to something like that, it's like saying I consent to the sun coming up.

Liberal in many ways..changed my mind recently after some life circumstances.
I don’t affiliate with any party but I think it’s great that reddit debate changed your mind. It would be great to hear what exactly was said that was the most effective so we can learn from it and apply it. Hopefully you can Join us in the debating now and change more minds. Welcome!
It was just the fact that because a life has the name of embryo or fetus doesn’t mean it isn’t human. That was hammered in again and again.
I'd like to challenge your "few exceptions". Why are you pro-life? What is the core reason? What are your exceptions to that reason? Why do you hold to them?
I always thought of myself as conservative. Recently I’ve been thinking thought that I might be a pro life liberal. The only thing I really have in common with conservatives is my being pro life, and I am religious. But quite a few of my beliefs are more liberal so I wonder.  All the liberals I know are scary radlib types so I’m kinda hesitant to try fitting in there lol
I'm with you on that. I used to be very pro-choice, and I align with liberals on a lot of things still except I'm pro-life now. I don't fit in with either side really. Super sjw radical liberals turn me off of that because it can be so irrational, but the conservative side can be so hypocritical, amoral, and positively soulless. Don't try to fit in, just be you- a religious pro-life quasi conservative liberal. Lol
Yeah sounds about right haha! Both sides can definitely have their issues so it’s tough to find people around where I am on the political spectrum. Not to mention lacking the convenience of an easy term for it. XD
Good for you. Sadly sometimes I feel debating does no good because everyone thinks they are right. You prove that wrong. I hope more people are like you.
Could you give links or a few examples of debates that changed your mind?
So awesome to hear. Thanks for sharing. I am pretty liberal with most subjects but not all. So happy to have you on the team!
Can you shortly explain to me why you dislike abortion?
I'm happy to hear that you've seen the light of the pro-life movement. I'm sorry to hear that you're still a liberal. I would hope that the open-mindedness you displayed in changing your views on abortion will also eventually apply to your other political views as well. Edit: lol downvoted by 7 triggered pro-choicers
Hey, if there are enough pro-life democrats, there might actually be some adjustments made within the party on this issue...! Sounds good to me.
That'd be great. I'm not a Democrat, but I could potentially support a center-left Democrat who is pro-life than, say, a Trumpian conservative. It is sad the Democratic leadership has basically banned pro-life Democrats from their party.
What's wrong with being liberal? This sub really rubs me the wrong way sometimes. I'm as pro-life as they come, but that shit doesn't belong here. Being pro-life is consistent with a lot of liberal ideologies. If it's your mission turn people away, condescending them is a great way to do it.
Well I could go into detail about all the various issues with liberalism but I'm not sure if it would really be an appropriate topic for this sub. I think the pro-life movement has historically been a conservative one. I don't think there was anything condescending about what I wrote.
You directly implied their liberalism was a result of their "close-mindedness." How is that not condescending?
OP wrote: Clearly there is a correlation between being a liberal and being pro-choice. OP also wrote: I don't know why it seems to be such a struggle for you to understand why I made that implication. I invite you to carefully re-read what OP wrote and then consider why I wrote what I did. I'm not interested in arguing with you about liberalism vs. conservatism in this sub.
Directly translates to: "You're still liberal because you're still closed minded." I'm not debating liberalism vs. conservatism. I'm asking you to not be an ass.
The only one being an ass here is you. If my words trigger you so much feel free to block me. I'm not going to change my speech so that it doesn't offend you. I am openly conservative and proud of it, and I think liberalism is a cancer destroying our social fabric (abortion being one of the many ways it achieves that goal.) I'll continue speaking out against it until the day I die.
Okay. Still, why make enemies of people who agree with you on what is probably the most important issue of all?
I'm not making enemies with anyone. Apparently lfpod wants to make enemies with me because i'm a conservative and disapprove of liberalism. I could care less about them.
You sound a tad condescending. It’s like you’re saying OP is still not as pro life as you. I hope that’s not the case but when you are complaining about downvotes you might be a tad insecure
My complaints about downvotes are well-warranted considering their very real impact on one's user experience on this site. Also nothing I said was implying anything about OP not being as pro life as me. Why is it so hard for you triggered libs to figure this out
But judging a person to be closed-minded simply because the call themselves “liberal” IS a closed-minded view. Oh the irony...
Liberals ARE closed-minded. Sorry, not sorry.
So...you believe stereotyping people is acceptable. I’m not to say that you haven’t come across closed-minded liberals, but it’s the stereotyping that’s the issue. People are closed-minded regardless of political party. Self-affirming political ideologies is voluntary mind-control for the masses. Our society is designed to be this way, to be dualistic. It is designed for closed-mindedness because it pits people against one another. You have to be willing to rise above these narrow ideological labels to be able to see that.
Stereotypes exist for a reason. The vast majority of liberals in America are extremely biased and closed-minded people who will viciously attack anyone who disagrees with them. They are also to blame for much of the harmful changes our society has experienced in the past few decades, including Roe v. Wade. If you want to 'rise above' then choose conservatism. Stand and fight for our country's traditional judeochristian values. Or, let the libs erase & replace them with a culture of depravity. The choice is yours.
It amazes me how you don’t see why that is problematic. How does that help your cause, to make enemies before you even start a conversation? You don’t know how that person defines “liberal views,” how they think or what they know. Even though I don’t like labels, they can be somewhat useful, so let’s say I am an ex-liberal.  I have always considered myself open-minded.  When I leaned more towards the left, I was mainly influenced by environmental issues, which the right tends to ignore and shit on in favor of business interests.  For instance, I don’t believe businesses should be allowed to own life.  To be allowed to manufacture self-replicating GMOs that monopolize and contaminate the food supply, harm our bodies and hurt the ecosystem.  So because of these strong views I found myself amongst liberals. So Democrat/left/liberal means different things to different people, you shouldn’t make assumptions and judgements based on a label.  If I were still highly left-leaning I would be turned off by your attitude and not want to engage with you. and that would do nothing to sway any views that you might assume that I have. You fail to make the distinction between liberalism and liberals.  “Liberals” makes it personal.  You’re more likely to make enemies when you fight against people rather than an ideology.
Ever heard of Dan Dagget? http://www.rightwaytobegreen.com/
No I haven’t, thank you I’ll check it out. I think that your response proves my point though that we need to be careful about stereotyping. Conservatives don’t have a good reputation for caring about the environment.  Doesn’t mean it is fair or accurate but that’s the stereotype. That link looks interesting


Keep voting - in every election - especially in the coming midterms, every vote could save the lives of countless unborn babies.


Honestly it would be better if the prochoice folks claimed it was magic or fairies that caused people to become people. At least then they would have a reason. As it stands, they just kind of shrug their shoulders.
It's more about values than reasoning. That's like asking why you think we shouldn't kill people in the first place.
I'm sorry but I don't understand the point you are trying to make. Could you rephrase?
Sure. When I hear a about someone getting killed, i usually feel bad, i think their life had value. When I hear about someone getting an abortion, I think, that must have sucked for the mother. So I clearly don't value a fetus the same as a person, and I clearly value the fetus's life less than the wishes of the mother. So based on those values, I have no problem with abortion. But there isn't any reasoning behind it, I didn't sit down and say, "what is the logical way to feel" I simply recognized how I felt. Even if I can't explain it, it's still how I feel, and can justify how I feel with some arguments afterwards, since that is generally what people do. So it doesn't make sense to say it's unreasonable, its just a different set of values. Personhood and rights are all social constructs, not logical derivations. You use reasoning and arguments to convince someone else of your position if you want them to agree with you, but failing to do that doesn't invalidate your own position.
Thank you! That was very helpful for me to understand, what seems to be, a fair point. I suppose we all fall into this trap of from time to time. But, we must constantly remind ourselves of one simple guiding principle: the truth is objective. We ought to be using our arguments to try to uncover the truth. I find that human beings exist, and there are other beings that are not human. Regardless of how we feel we ought to protect innocent human life. So then, what is a human life? The answer is not, "Whatever we socially construct it to be." As a brief aside to help move your feeling toward reason, I respectfully recommend researching abortion survivors. The stories of those who were left to die in hospitals as well as those who have survived into adulthood are equally emotionally (and logically) compelling.
Happy to help, You are saying that regardless of our values, we should have certain values. That doesn't make any sense. If I value the mothers choice over the fetus, then it doesn't make sense to completely go against my values because you think I ought to. That is literally like me saying: "Regardless of how we feel we ought to respect the choices of the mother". There is no objective truth to any of this, who gets to decide what the truth is in this case? I am sure they have some very emotional stories, but so do poor 19 year old women who didn't want to be pregnant.
Would you argue that racists just have different values that don't need validating? Or if someone feels no distress at a black man's death, is that a problem that should be addressed?
Racists would definitely be people with different values, I don't know what you mean by "need validating" though. That's not really the same thing, people die all the time and I most people aren't distressed about it at all. It would be an issue if there were a preference for them to die, but not caring isn't really a problem, people don't care about most things. I don't quite see what this has to do with the point at hand though
Your argument for allowing abortion was more or less that you don't feel bad about it. How is that different from a racist who doesn't feel bad about a black person's death?
Well its a ranking of values right, so I am saying that I value the mother's wishes over the life of the fetus, what is the racist person valuing over the death of the black person? Otherwise it isn't really different in the sense that they are both values, one is just more universally disagreed with, so much so even that we often actively suppress it.
I don't know exactly; you'd have to ask a racist. From what I can tell, racism isn't exactly a monolithic ideology, but it's often motivated by values such as heritage, cultural identity, genetic purity, rule of law, societal stability, and tradition.

So... sentience and a "uniquely human level of reasoning" aren't present until what, 2nd grade?
My son just finished 2nd grade. From my experience, a "uniquely human level of reasoning" must come later. I hope soon....................
Nope. A uniquely human level of reasoning refers to the timeframe in fetal brain development where the fetal brain is actively functioning as a whole, and a unique level of human cognitive reasoning is being produced by fetal brain waves. This doesn't happen till 7 to 9 months. "What makes us distinctly human, according to Bennett and many other neuroscientists, is the outer layer of the brain, called the neocortex. This critical portion of the brain is the seat of consciousness and complex thought. It enables a person to be aware and respond to what surrounds him. Starting about 28 weeks, there is a burst of connections made between the neurons in all parts of the neocortex by cells appropriately called interneurons. "The bulk of what we do with our brains," Dr. Marin-Padilla of Dartmouth said, "is done by these interneurons. These little guys allow you to write, play tennis and carry out a variety of complex functions."  Studies seem to support the notion that 28 weeks marks a dramatic turning point in the fetus's brain development and is more important than birth itself." http://articles.latimes.com/1990-03-19/local/me-476_1_brain-stem/2
Technically speaking what makes us distinctly human is that...we're human.
We are discussing the concept of personhood. Skin Cells, Hair Follicles and other entities are also technically human as well. The reason pro-lifers believe science is on their side is that of the romanticization of the word "human". "Human" is a species name. Human and fetus are two separate words with distinct meanings, yet pro-lifers are unable to distinguish the two. One is the species name and the other is the name for a developing embryo. Calling something a human fetus is no more significant than calling something a human thumb. "Human" classifies the species in question and the noun that follows classifies the appendage being addressed. Pro-lifers see the words "human" and "fetus" together and they think that it means that a fetus is a human being when this is not the case.
But you don't know what a human organism is, as demonstrated by your constant comparisons that could be avoided if you actually read about the definition of organisms, life, and species.
And let me ask this: If you were, at 5 months gestation, a being that lacked value because you lacked "a uniquely human level of reasoning", why does the growth of a few  million more neurons suddenly make you into an intrinsically valuable human being? If you did not have value at 5 months gestation, you certainly did not have it at 8 months gestation. And you would not have it today either. Edited: cleared up my wording
Because before the reasoning at that point is not distinguishable from lower reptiles or other similar animals. There is no actual human thought that is going on. In The Conscious Brain, Steven Rose, a British neurophysiologist, observes that "before 28 weeks the patterns are very simple and lacking in any of the characteristic forms which go to make up the adult EEG pattern." Then, between the 28th and 32nd weeks, the theta, delta, and alpha waves of the adult make their appearance—at first only periodically, "occurring in brief, spasmodic bursts; but after 32 weeks the pattern of waves becomes more continuous, and characteristic differences begin to appear in the EEG pattern of the waking and sleeping infant.". Past this point is when we see the characteristics of human reasoning that will be present throughout the life cycle. They begin and develop at the 7 to the 9-month stage and represent the watershed state of where the brain starts functioning. American neuroscientist Dominick P. Purpura concurs with Rose. In a recent interview, Purpura defined "brain life" as "the capacity of the cerebral cortex, or the thinking portion of the brain, to begin to develop consciousness, self-awareness and other generally recognized cerebral functions as a consequence of the formation of nerve cell circuits." As I referenced earlier, these features do not happen past the timeline I outlined. False again. We first look at the fetus and determine what property or properties distinguish them from other living things. Then, we examine the development of a human being from a single fertilized egg to birth and determine when those properties are acquired. This is that possession of a functioning cerebral cortex distinguishes human beings from other species and that the human fetus thus acquires life when its cerebral cortex begins to function at the timeline I outlined. The crucial point is what or who is exercising the respective rights. The woman, of course, is an adult human being, a person. The fetus, on the other hand, changes daily, rapidly acquiring new characteristics and properties all the time. Before it has acquired life, however, it does not possess those properties that distinguish humans from other animals. Therefore, the conflict of rights is between someone who has acquired the property of life and humanness and an entity that has not. In such a situation, it seems obvious to us that the presumption must be on the side of the woman – that the rights of a person who has acquired humanness must prevail over those of a fetus or embryo that has not.
I don’t agree that a certain degree of brain development is what endows “humanness” on a thing. If value and rights, aka “humanness”, are endowed anywhere at all, the moment a new human comes into existence seems like the obvious point to me. If it’s not “human” before it’s brain is developed enough, then what is it? It has human parents, is alive and developing, it is a unique entity, and has human DNA. If allowed to develop naturally, without the violence of abortion and barring a natural death, it will grow to have the abilities you say give it “humanness”. A new embryo, at the moment of conception, is the type of being that has intrinsic rights. Just like you and I do.
I want to make something clear. My original argument was only dealing with personhood and when we should give the right to life to a fetus. I am more than willing to argue a scientific case, but I think it should be clarified before such a case is being made. There is a problem with saying life begins at conception. When you take this position you are saying that a human being exists at the moment when haploid human gametes fuse into a fertilized diploid human egg. Saying life begins at conception basically means that a single cell is, in fact, a human being. There is a reason not a single scientific organization supports this idea. Sometime in the not very distant future, probably in our quest to understand cancer, we will discover the mechanisms for unlocking the genetic code which prevents unchecked cell division. Since every single human cell contains the full genetic information of every other cell, it will become possible to take a skin cell and cause it to divide and differentiate into any desired organ, or even into a complete human being, genetically identical to the donor. The process is called 'cloning'. Will we then say that every skin cell is a human being? Rather should we not say that both zygotes and skin cells represent potential human beings with differing probabilities of actually becoming a full human? Valuing the point of conception is an unreasonable scientific position, it should be realized that one is putting a premium on is a potential and probability for humanness, and that it is not necessarily true that a fertilized egg is, in fact, a full human being at conception. I never said a fetus wasn't "human". I said it wasn't a human being. These are two different concepts. The sperm and the egg are also alive and they are “human” in a very similar sense (i.e., they have human DNA). It is true that a zygote is unique in that it is a germ cell that will start to grow into a separate human being. But the point is that, in terms of its complexity and essence, at conception, a zygote is on the same dimension of complexity as the sperm and egg (i.e., they all exist, like the cells in my arm, at the biological dimension of complexity). The bottom line here is that just because something is alive and is human, it does not follow that the entity is a fully functioning human being. A unique genome is not required to form a human being (e.g. identical twins, or clones, or human parthenotes) and unique genomes often do not form human beings (e.g. mutated genomes of cancers or the modified genome of induced pluripotent stem cells). Unless we are willing to admit that melanomas are actually human beings because they have a different genome and that a woman who is pregnant with her clone (or an identical twin) is not actually pregnant with a human being, then this argument should be abandoned. This argument is from a potentiality standpoint and it has been refuted. There is no such thing as a “potential” life. When Jimmy Carter was six years old, he was a potential president of the United States, but even though the president of the United States has the right to command the armed forces, it does not follow that six-year-old Jimmy had even a very weak right to command the armed forces, let alone a right on a par with actual presidents. This example shows that potential rights do not entail actual rights and that the assumption needed to ground the potentiality argument must be rejected. The potentiality argument akin to saying that a Home Depot is the same things as 100 houses because it holds that potential. How can a biological entity that has no nervous system be considered a human being? I am also going to repeat what I responded to you earlier with: I hope that should make my position clear. A fertilized egg, a clump of cells with no brain, is hardly deserving of the same moral status we confer on the newborn child or the functioning adult. Mere possession of the genetic material for a future human being does not make a human being. The developing embryo that becomes a fetus that becomes a baby is the product of a dynamic interaction with its environment in the womb, it's postnatal experiences and a host of other factors. A purely genetic description of the human species does not describe a human being.
I don’t particularly care to respond totally. But a couple points I will. “I never said a fetus wasn't "human". I said it wasn't a human being. These are two different concepts. The sperm and the egg are also alive and they are “human” in a very similar sense (i.e., they have human DNA). It is true that a zygote is unique in that it is a germ cell that will start to grow into a separate human being. But the point is that, in terms of its complexity and essence, at conception, a zygote is on the same dimension of complexity as the sperm and egg (i.e., they all exist, like the cells in my arm, at the biological dimension of complexity). The bottom line here is that just because something is alive and is human, it does not follow that the entity is a fully functioning human being.” A zygote is definitely not a germ cell. Sperm and egg are germ cells. A zygote is not. Complexity is a morally irrelevant category. A zygote is a fully-fledged member of the human community. The distinction pro-aborts make between “human” and “human being” are arbitrary and silly. BuT a TuMoR CeLl iS HuMaN!! SpErm CeLs aRe HuMaN! The jimmy carter analogy is beyond silly as well. Of course he didn’t exercise his presidential power before he was president. Being president is not inherently natural to humans. Being human is inherently natural to humans
By what criteria are you saying the zygote is a member of the human species? Because based on your prior criteria it would include sperm and other entites I have mentioned. Skin cells are human cells. They possess human DNA. They are alive; they are living. They are not a human being. Liver cells are human cells. They possess human DNA. They are alive; they are living. They are not a human being. Stem cells are human cells. They possess human DNA. They are alive; they are living. They are not a human being. Spermatozoa are human cells. They possess human DNA. They are alive; they are living. They are not a human being. Zygotes are human cells. They possess human DNA. They are alive; they are living. They are not a human being. Human beings, like jellyfish and green-blue algae, are colonies. No single cell of ours is a human being or ever could be. Why? Because human beings are colonies with specific expected finished characteristics. An embryo is made of human cells. It possesses human DNA. It is alive; it is living. It is even a colony. But it is not a fully differentiated colony. It is still developing. It is not a human being, but it may develop into one. Because it is developing, and because it is wholly dependent on the woman who must carry it, and because it has the capacity to do great and irreparable harm to that woman, she has the right to choose not to carry it. She may choose, at any point in her carrying, to revoke the embryo’s permit to inhabit her body. Why? Because a woman has human cells. A woman possesses human DNA. She is alive; she is living. She is a full colony. She has developed EEG waves. A woman is a human being. She is recognized under the law as owning her own body. And that woman is more important than any potential children she may have. Once those children have been born, they become equally important; but they are never, never more important than she is. Good job for completely glossing over the point that was being made. It was dealing with potentiality, which you have failed to address. First, if a zygote should be protected because it can from a human being, why not also protect the sperm and eggs, for they can form a zygote which in turn can form a human being. The second, a major flaw, is that being potentially something isn’t the same as being something already. To see this, consider extrapolating the potential argument in the other direction: all human beings will die. And, seeing as a zygote will form a human being who will later form a corpse, it follows that we should treat both people and zygotes as if they were corpses. If we can give the right to life for an unborn baby, maybe we should give the right to a decent burial for a pre-dead corpse (i.e. a live baby). Not to mention that skin cells can replace sperm in forming a human being, so it follows that each skin cell destroyed is akin to destroying a human being. Unless, of course, having the potential to do something or be something isn’t equal to actually doing or being it. It seems to clear to me that you don't really have any real responses to the challenges I have posed to you. I would encoruage you to read up on the issue and then respond to me, when you're ready to adaquetly debate, instead of just repeating things I have already debated.

The outer layer of the brain is a result of the unique human DNA that was created at conception.
False. A unique genome is not required to form a human being (e.g. identical twins, or clones, or human parthenotes) and unique genomes often do not form human beings (e.g. mutated genomes of cancers or the modified genome of induced pluripotent stem cells). Unless we are willing to admit that melanomas are actually human beings because they have a different genome, and that a woman who is pregnant with her clone (or identical twin) is not actually pregnant with a human being, then this argument should be abandoned. A fertilized egg, a clump of cells with no brain, is hardly deserving of the same moral status we confer on the newborn child or the functioning adult. Mere possession of the genetic material for a future human being does not make a human being. The developing embryo that becomes a fetus that becomes a baby is the product of a dynamic interaction with its environment in the womb, it's postnatal experiences, and a host of other factors. A purely genetic description of the human species does not describe a human being.
You're right: identical twins and clones are not unique. Fortunately, they are the exceptions that prove the rule. As for cancer, it is not formed by the gametes of human beings coming together at conception. True, it describes what is considered part of the human species.
And they are both big reasons that argue against the "Life at conception dogma".  Saying life begins at conception basically means that a single cell is in fact a human being. There is a reason not a single scientific organization supports this idea. Sometime in the not very distant future, probably in our quest to understand cancer, we will discover the mechanisms for unlocking the genetic code which prevents unchecked cell division. Since every single human cell contains the full genetic information of every other cell, it will become possible to take a skin cell and cause it to divide and differentiate into any desired organ, or even into a complete human being, genetically identical to the donor. The process is called 'cloning'. Will we then say that every skin cell is a human being? Rather should we not say that both zygotes and skin cells represent potential human beings with differing probabilities of actually becoming a full human? Valuing the point of conception is an unreasonable scientific position, it should be realized that one is putting a premium on is a potential and probability for humanness, and that it is not necessarily true that a fertilized egg is in fact a full human being at conception. Once again you didn't really read my response. Having a full set of human DNA does not give the zygote full human rights— including the right not to be aborted during its gestation. Don’t believe me? Here, try this: reach up to your head, grab one strand of hair, and yank it out. Look at the base of the hair. That little blob of tissue at the end is a hair follicle. It also contains a full set of human DNA. Granted it’s the same DNA pattern found in every other cell in your body, but in reality the uniqueness of the DNA is not what makes it a different person. Identical twins share the exact same DNA, and yet we don’t say that one is less human than the other, nor are two twins the exact same person. It’s not the configuration of the DNA that makes a zygote human; it’s simply that it has human DNA. Your hair follicle shares everything in common with a human zygote except that it is a little bit bigger and it is not a potential person. (These days even that’s not an absolute considering our new-found ability to clone humans from existing DNA, even the DNA from a hair follicle.) Your hair follicle is just as human as the zygote, but we would never defend its human rights based solely on that fact.
I don't understand the relevance of these points. Are you saying the line of human being is blurred by cells that are human cells but not human beings? If so, the point defeats itself by differentiating between those two things. We can easily differentiate cloning skin cells and hair follicles from single-celled human beings. Even in the instance of identical twins, we can say, "Ah, there are two distinct individuals here. They have the same genetic makeup, but they will divide and reproduce to one day make a mature adult." Maybe that isn't the argument you are making, in which case I am sorry I don't understand. Could explain your point more succinctly for me? "Development of the embryo begins at Stage 1 when a sperm fertilizes an oocyte and together they form a zygote." [England, Marjorie A. Life Before Birth. 2nd ed. England: Mosby-Wolfe, 1996, p.31] "Human development begins after the union of male and female gametes or germ cells during a process known as fertilization (conception). "Fertilization is a sequence of events that begins with the contact of a sperm (spermatozoon) with a secondary oocyte (ovum) and ends with the fusion of their pronuclei (the haploid nuclei of the sperm and ovum) and the mingling of their chromosomes to form a new cell. This fertilized ovum, known as a zygote, is a large diploid cell that is the beginning, or primordium, of a human being." [Moore, Keith L. Essentials of Human Embryology. Toronto: B.C. Decker Inc, 1988, p.2] "Embryo: the developing organism from the time of fertilization until significant differentiation has occurred, when the organism becomes known as a fetus." [Cloning Human Beings. Report and Recommendations of the National Bioethics Advisory Commission. Rockville, MD: GPO, 1997, Appendix-2.] "Embryo: An organism in the earliest stage of development; in a man, from the time of conception to the end of the second month in the uterus." [Dox, Ida G. et al. The Harper Collins Illustrated Medical Dictionary. New York: Harper Perennial, 1993, p. 146] "Embryo: The early developing fertilized egg that is growing into another individual of the species. In man the term 'embryo' is usually restricted to the period of development from fertilization until the end of the eighth week of pregnancy." [Walters, William and Singer, Peter (eds.). Test-Tube Babies. Melbourne: Oxford University Press, 1982, p. 160]
I am saying that by postulating a human being begins at conception you are essentially saying what I said earlier. The conception criterion does not distinguish this. Let me give a break down of the process. Scientists now choose to view fertilization as a process that occurs over a period of 12-24 hours. After sperm are released they must remain in the female reproductive tract for seven hours before they are capable of fertilizing the egg. Approximately ten hours are required for the sperm to travel up to the fallopian tube where they find the egg. The meeting of the egg and the sperm itself is not even an instantaneous process, but rather a complex biochemical interaction through which the sperm ultimately reaches the inner portion of the egg. Following fertilization, the chromosomes contained within the sperm and the chromosomes of the egg meet to form a diploid organism, now called a zygote, over a period of 24 hours. Thus, even if one were to argue that life begins at fertilization, fertilization is not a moment, but rather a continuous process lasting 12-24 hours, with an additional 24 hours required to complete the formation of a diploid individual. I want to clarify something. A particular human life begins at conception when sperm and egg meet to form a zygote. It is worth noting here that both the sperm and the egg are also alive and they are “human” in a very similar sense (i.e., they have human DNA). It is true that a zygote is unique in that it is a germ cell that will start to grow into a separate human being. But the point is that, in terms of its complexity and essence, at conception, a zygote is on the same dimension of complexity as the sperm and egg (i.e., they all exist, like the cells in my arm, at the biological dimension of complexity). The bottom line here is that just because something is alive and is human, it does not follow that the entity is a fully functioning human being. I don't think you really understand the twinning argument.  If it is even physically possible for a fertilized egg to produce twins (whether it actually does so or not), a fertilized egg cannot be identical to an organism. As long as it is possible to twin, a zygote is not a human anything, but a cell cluster. In the case of twinning, neither of the two humans that eventually develop can be identified as the same human as the zygote, because they can’t both be so, as they are different humans from one another. It is logically impossible for one organism to be identical to two organisms. And, of course, anything that is logically impossible is biologically impossible. In twinning, two (or more) twins come from a single fertilized egg. But neither of the twins is identical to that fertilized egg, on pain of contradiction. To see this, suppose that a zygote (a cell cluster) divides and twins result. Call the zygote “A,” and one of the twins “B” and the other twin “C.” If A were identical to both B and C, then—by the transitivity of identity—B and C would be identical to each other. But B is clearly not identical to C. Therefore, A (the zygote) cannot be identical to B and C. A being cannot come into existence until there is no further possibility of “twinning". Once again I asked for reputable scientific organizations. You seem to have given me just stock book quotes and vague reports. The evidence shows us that textbooks are not actually a good indicator for pieces of evidence in this debate: Excerpt from Dr. Ricki Lewis, a science writer with a PhD in genetics and biology and author of several textbooks and thousands of articles in scientific, medical, and embryological publications. “Life science textbooks from traditional publishers don’t explicitly state when life begins, because that is a question not only of biology, but of philosophy, politics, psychology, religion, technology, and emotions. Rather, textbooks list the characteristics of life, leaving interpretation to the reader.” http://blogs.plos.org/dnascience/2013/10/03/when-does-a-human-life-begins-17-timepoints/ Dr. Scott F. Gilbert, a legendary Ph.D from Swarthmore says “As an embryologist and the author of embryological textbooks, I can say with absolute assurance that there is not scientific support on life beginning at conception, this is not a biological fact”. http://phenomena.nationalgeographic.com/2014/11/17/personhood-week-conception-is-a-process/ Here is an excerpt from a lecture by Dr. Robert Wyman, chair of the Yale Biology department: "There is a lot of false misunderstanding out there, We always hear "It is a scientific fact, as any basic biology text will confirm that life does begin at conception. The fetus is a live human being, distinct from, while dependent on, its mother. It deserves the full protection of its rights." That's what's common out there. Not only is it what people, most people personally believe, but it's generally considered to be a scientific fact. I've heard this from pro-life people and pro-choice people, almost indistinguishable. The question is--you've all had high school biology at least, how many of you had college biology? A few of you, guess what? That isn't what--that isn't at all what a beginning biology textbook says. What does it say? This is from--they send professors free copies of textbooks, so I just opened up one that they happened to send me, and it shows something quite different. It shows life as a cycle. There's no start point here. Fertilization is one of the events going around the cycle. This is the essence of sexual reproduction. We also know that there's asexual reproduction, which doesn't have this stuff [fertilization] at all. The cycle is the switch between a haploid genome, which means one copy of each chromosome, and diploid, when each cell has two copies of each chromosome. With sexual reproduction--there's always some version of this one copy/two copies cycle. When we look in detail, this again from the same freshman, very popular, very big selling freshman college biology text. It talks about three different sexual lifecycles. In--the one that you're most familiar with, which is animals. What happens is you start with a--a multi-cellular organism, that's you. Then meiosis--the splitting of the chromosomes so that the gametes get--this is 2N, N being the number of chromosomes, start from 2N, there's a process called meiosis in which pairs split and you get cells with only one copy of each chromosome, those are called gametes or germ cells, and then from another individual you get a second N and you go back to the diploid phase.” - Dr. Robert Wyman http://oyc.yale.edu/sites/default/files/mcdblecture23notes_0.pdf (The full report from Yale on why life does not begin at conception and why textbooks do not say this.) I will be quoting P.Z Myers a distinguished biologist who actually references the texts you cited on this section: “NONSENSE. “Human” in these cases is a general descriptor for the origin of the cells; it’s a statement about the type. You might as well say that that one quote about a “male and female haploid gametes (sperm and egg)” clearly states that sperm and egg are human, therefore science says we ought to criminalize menstruation and masturbation. One other point I have to make about these sources: the Moore and O’Rahilly texts are specifically medical embryology textbooks — they are not good sources for information about general developmental biology, and are a bit blinkered in their perspective, and tend to focus on superficial aspects of descriptive morphology. That’s fine for medical and nursing students, I suppose, but if you want to actually understand the mechanics of development, they’re useless. They’re doubly useless if you read them with an agenda that refuses to be budged by the facts. I can cite scientific literature too! Pass F, Janis R, Marcus DM. (1971) Antigens of human wart tissue. J Invest Dermatol. 56(4):305-10. Warts are human. Ban squaric acid, laser surgery, and topical liquid nitrogen treatments! (Warts actually are human: they are made of skin cells stimulated into benign overgrowth by incorporation of genetic material from a virus. They also therefore have a unique genetic combination.) Kim HB, Lee SH, Um JH, Oh WK, Kim DW, Kang CD, Kim SH. (2015) Sensitization of multidrug-resistant human cancer cells to Hsp90 inhibitors by down-regulation of SIRT1. Oncotarget. 2015 Sep 25. [Epub ahead of print] Cancer cells are human. They are also genetically distinct from their host, with a unique molecular signature. All the arguments used by these people denying Nye’s statements can also be applied to cancer. Finch CE, Austad SN. (2015) Commentary: is Alzheimer’s disease uniquely human? Neurobiol Aging. 36(2):553-5. Scientists refer to diseases as “human”, too? Do we need to get informed consent and a signature from neurofibrillary plaques in the brain before we can try to treat it? My point is not that warts, cancer, or diseases need to be regarded as persons. It’s that “human” is a very broad term that is applied to a lot of kinds of cells, and it takes a particularly naive person to browse through the literature and go “A-ha! My biases are confirmed by this quote!”” http://scienceblogs.com/pharyngula/2015/10/01/bill-nye-and-abortion/ So in essence, you really don't have any evidence on this matter.
Here is a list of medical and scientific organizations that support the right to choose. American Medical Association: "[We] oppose legislative interference with the practice of medicine and a woman’s relationship with her doctor... Access to safe and legal abortion is an important aspect of women’s health care. Abortion is one of the safest medical procedures performed in the United States." https://www.acog.org/~/media/News%20Releases/20131220Release.pdf The American Medical Women's Association [AMWA] will oppose efforts to overturn or weaken Roe v. Wade, either directly or indirectly, as in the case of legislation which burdens access to the abortion procedure. AMWA considers all such laws and court rulings to interfere with the doctor-patient relationship, and thus to violate medical autonomy and pose threats to the individual as well as the public health." https://www.amwa-doc.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/12/August-3-2017-Amici-Curiae-Brief-for-Planned-Parenthood.pdf Association of Reproductive Health Care Professionals: “Abortion care is a critical component of comprehensive reproductive health care, and ARHP supports a woman’s right to choose to have an abortion. The decision to continue or terminate a pregnancy belongs to the pregnant woman. ARHP opposes any judicial, legislative, or administrative attempt at the local, state, or federal levels to ban any abortion procedure or medical procedure to terminate a pregnancy.” http://www.arhp.org/about-us/position-statements The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) supports the availability of high-quality reproductive health services for all women and is committed to improving access to abortion. Access to abortion is threatened by state and federal government restrictions, limitations on public funding for abortion services and training, stigma, violence against abortion providers, and a dearth of abortion providers. Legislative restrictions fundamentally interfere with the patient-provider relationship and decrease access to abortion for all women, and particularly for low-income women and those living long distances from health care providers. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists calls for advocacy to oppose and overturn restrictions, improve access, and mainstream abortion as an integral component of women’s health care." "Safe, legal abortion is a necessary component of women’s health care. https://www.acog.org/About-ACOG/News-Room/Statements/2016/ACOG-Statement-on-Abortion-Bans?p=1 https://www.acog.org/Clinical-Guidance-and-Publications/Committee-Opinions/Committee-on-Health-Care-for-Underserved-Women/Increasing-Access-to-Abortion The American Academy of Family Physicians "RESOLVED, That the American Academy of Family Physicians support chapter efforts that oppose legislation that imposes on abortion providers unnecessary requirements that infringe on the practice of evidence-based medicine, and be it further RESOLVED, That the American Academy of Family Physicians oppose national legislation that imposes unnecessary requirements on abortion providers, reducing doctors’ ability to provide evidence-based and patient-centered care..." https://www.aafp.org/dam/AAFP/documents/events/alf_ncsc/business/sat-advocacy.pdf The WMA (World Medical Association) “recognizes that unwanted pregnancies and pregnancies that are too closely spaced can have a serious adverse effect on the health of a woman and of her children. These adverse effects can include the premature deaths of women. Existing children in the family can also suffer starvation, neglect or abandonment resulting in their death or impaired health, when families are unable to provide for all their children. Social functioning and the ability to reach their full potential can also be impaired. The WMA recognizes the benefits for women who are able to control their fertility. They should be helped to make such choices themselves, as well as in discussion with their partners. The ability to do so by choice and not chance is a principal component of women's physical and mental health and social well being. Restrictive abortion laws are not associated with lower abortion rates. In countries where induced abortion is highly restricted by law, safe abortion has frequently become the privilege of the rich, while poor women are left with little choice but to resort to unsafe providers."  https://www.wma.net/policies-post/wma-statement-on-family-planning-and-the-right-of-a-woman-to-contraception/ [World Health Organization] WHO, with support from an international consensus and prompted by human rights obligations, has responded to a major neglected public health need of women...until abortion is decriminalized, the tragedy of unsafe abortion will continue to haunt us and to threaten the life, health and rights of women. Furthermore, research aimed at developing simpler, improved methods for performing induced abortion has the potential to save the lives of millions of women globally." http://www.who.int/bulletin/volumes/90/9/12-107144.pdf Could you provide me a list of reputable medical and scientific organizations that support your view? Could you also maybe cite any peer-reviewed studies published in scientific journals, just as I did, that argue for your view as well?
Your own quote doesn't even prove that scientists believe we aren't people before 7 months gestation. This could be interpreted to mean that you were a person before you fully developed your neocortex.  You were just the sort of person who was not aware and lacked the ability to respond to your surroundings.
I don't think you read my source properly then. The neocortex is just one of the important functions that relate to determining complex thought and human reasoning. Before the timeframe I outlined, there is simply is no higher reasoning capacity or human awareness. The brain isn't "on" so to speak and is not functioning at that time frame. Dr. Michael Bennett, chairman of the neuroscience department of Albert Einstein Medical School, when asked whether a brain exists at conception and whether there can be a person without a brain, answered with an unequivocal "no!" to both questions. It was pointed out that the human brain has approximately 100 billion brain cells and that there are an estimated 100 trillion connections between neurons in the brain. This extraordinary neuronal "interconnectivity" provides the neurostructural foundation for complex perceptions and "personhood" and takes many months and often years to fully develop and function. Dr. Patricia Goldman-Rakic, professor of neuroscience at Yale University Medical School, emphasizes that brain neurons do not exist prior to four weeks in utero, that the peak period for brain neuron development is from two to five months in utero, and that the existence of neurons, per se, does not indicate the existence of a developed, functioning brain. Once the brain cell is born, there is a long process of migration of brain cells that occurs mainly from two to six months in utero during which the brain cells move (migrate) to their final destination in the brain. An even longer process of development makes possible the "interconnectivity" of brain cells which is absolutely essential for sensation, perception, conscious experience, thought, and behavior. The formation of brain synapses that make possible brain cell communication does not begin until about the third month in utero, and most are formed after birth. Dr. Clifford Grobstein, former chairman of the Department of Biology at Stanford University and now at the University of California at San Diego, highlights the complexity of brain development by noting that the brain docs not develop uniformly. For example, certain parts of the brain develop earlier and some later. The cerebral neocortex that is responsible for complex perceptions is one of the last to develop. Dr. Dominick Purpura, dean of Albert Einstein Medical School, has been studying human brain development since 1974 with his research on mental retardation. Dr. Purpura emphasizes that there are a minimum number of neurons and synaptic connections that are necessary before the qualities of "humanness" and "personhood" can be developed and that this capacity begins to occur in the middle of the last trimester. Thus, about twenty-eight to thirty weeks in utero is the minimal time for the beginning of this capacity—"It can't begin earlier," according to Dr. Purpura. Dr. Purpura also emphasizes that critical changes are seen in the fetal brain wave pattern at thirty-one weeks when the brain waves become more organized and, thus, meaningful; the first signs of sleep and wakefulness are not observed until a few weeks later. It is emphasized that all cells have electrical potentials and that the mere presence of such signals, per se, does not mean that the capacity for complex perceptions or "personhood" exists. How these neuronal signals become organized and reflect underlying neuronal and structural organization is fundamental to understanding the basic neurobiological principle that structure precedes function. Source: http://www.violence.de/prescott/humanist/abortion.html Further References: http://meds.queensu.ca/assets/Andrew.D/When_Does_Personhood_Begin.pdf
The reason I don’t agree that brain development = “humanness” is because I don’t see a logical link there. You have given me some scientific facts about the development of a fetus, but that doesn’t logically lead to the conclusion that you’re trying to prove. Your argument, as I understand it, is as follows. A certain development of the brain is what entails humanness Fetuses before a certain point do not have this level of brain development. Therefore fetuses don’t have “humanness” You have quoted some prominent scientists who have made philosophical claims about personhood and “humanness”. But premise 1 is what is disputed. I don’t dispute premise 2.
I initially made a philosophical argument on the basis of the right to life. I am more than willing to make a scientific argument if that is what you wish. Borrowing from my other response to you: "The brain enables our body, our mind, our personality. The brain is the only unique and irreplaceable organ in the human body, as the orchestrator of all organ systems and the seat of personality. Thus, the presence or absence of brain life truly defines the presence or absence of human life in the medical sense. When viewed in this way, human life may be seen as a continuous spectrum between the onset of brain life in utero until the occurrence of brain death. “At any point, human tissue or organ systems may be present, but without the presence of a functional human brain, these do not constitute a 'human being', at least in a medical sense.” JM, Goldenring. "The Brain-Life Theory: Towards A Consistent Biological Definition Of Humanness. - Pubmed - NCBI ." Ncbi.nlm.nih.gov. Another good source: "Scientifically, a zygote is both alive and human, as are the gametes that give rise to it and the cells that result from its division. What is new about a zygote is not that it is alive or human but that it has a new genetic constitution. What is not yet present, however, is a new individual, in the sense of a person as defined by common usage and carried over into our concept of human rights......The key word is "attributes." If the attributes are expressed in terms to which science can be applied, then science can assist the law in establishing the appropriate developing stage.....What is clear, however, is that one widely, though not universally, the accepted attribute is wholeness in the sense of indivisibility. Scientifically, we know that this attribute is not present in the mammalian zygote. Similarly, a widely accepted attribute is sentience or behavior that suggests it. Scientifically, we have good reason to expect that sentience is not present until the nervous system reaches some necessary level of maturation. Dr. Clifford Gorbestien, Science, Technology and Public Affairs, University of California, San Diego Defining Human Life, Science, New Series, Vol. 214, No. 4516 (Oct. 2, 1981) From a scientific perspective, one can make an argument that a fetus is not a full, individual, living human being till the critical and uniquely human brain function. From an ethical or philosophical perspective, one can say that this when we should grant the fetus a right to life as well.
In other words, why should I believe a certain level of brain development is what endows “humanness” rather than being a member of the human species? Do you deny that an embryo is a member of the human species?
Let me explain the scientific side of this. Both the sperm and the egg are also alive and they are “human” in a very similar sense (i.e., they have human DNA). It is true that a zygote is unique in that it is a germ cell that will start to grow into a separate human being. But the point is that, in terms of its complexity and essence, at conception, a zygote is on the same dimension of complexity as the sperm and egg (i.e., they all exist, like the cells in my arm, at the biological dimension of complexity). The bottom line here is that just because something is alive and is human, it does not follow that the entity is a fully functioning human being. What makes a human being? I would argue brain function: "The brain enables our body, our mind, our personality. The brain is the only unique and irreplaceable organ in the human body, as the orchestrator of all organ systems and the seat of personality. Thus, the presence or absence of brain life truly defines the presence or absence of human life in the medical sense. When viewed in this way, human life may be seen as a continuous spectrum between the onset of brain life in utero until the occurrence of brain death. “At any point, human tissue or organ systems may be present, but without the presence of a functional human brain, these do not constitute a 'human being', at least in a medical sense.” JM, Goldenring. "The Brain-Life Theory: Towards A Consistent Biological Definition Of Humanness. - Pubmed - NCBI ." Ncbi.nlm.nih.gov. I do not. But this doesn't really mean anything. "Human" is a species name. Human and fetus are two separate words with distinct meanings, yet pro-lifers are unable to distinguish the two. One is the species name and the other is the name for a developing embryo. Calling something a human fetus is no more significant than calling something a human thumb. "Human" classifies the species in question and the noun that follows classifies the appendage being addressed. Pro-lifers see the words "human" and "fetus" together and they think that it means that a fetus is a human being.
The difference between a thumb and a fetus is so clear as to be absurd. The distinction between “human” and “human being” that pro-aborts make is so completely silly and arbitrary. The distinction is made because you want to justify abortion, and not because it is based in solid science or philosophy.
Both the sperm and the egg are also alive and they are “human” in a very similar sense (i.e., they have human DNA). It is true that a zygote is unique in that it is a germ cell that will start to grown into a separate human being. But the point is that, in terms of its complexity and essence, at conception a zygote is on the same dimension of complexity as the sperm and egg (i.e., they all exist, like the cells in my arm, at the biological dimension of complexity). The bottom line here is that just because something is alive and is human, it does not follow that the entity is a fully functioning human being. "Scientifically, a zygote is both alive and human, as are the gametes that give rise to it and the cells that result from its division. What is new about a zygote is not that it is alive or human but that it has a new genetic constitution. What is not yet present, however, is a new individual, in the sense of a person as defined by common usage and carried over into our concept of human rights......The key word is "attributes." If the attributes are expressed in terms to which science can be applied, then science can assist the law in establishing the appropriate developing stage.....What is clear, however, is that one widely, though not universally, the accepted attribute is wholeness in the sense of indivisibility. Scientifically, we know that this attribute is not present in the mammalian zygote. Similarly, a widely accepted attribute is sentience or behavior that suggests it. Scientifically, we have good reason to expect that sentience is not present until the nervous system reaches some necessary level of maturation. Dr. Clifford Gorbestien, Science, Technology and Public Affairs, University of California, San Diego Defining Human Life, Science, New Series, Vol. 214, No. 4516 (Oct. 2, 1981)' "I suggest that there can be objective, scientific criteria for setting at least certain minimum time requirements for fetal development to reach the beginnings of being a human person. Indeed, the well-known principle that ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny already suggests this. The criteria for human death may help us in deciding on the advent of human life. We now generally agree that appropriate functioning of the brain is the a critical requirement for human existence. When the brain, particularly the forebrain portion, is judged to be irreversibly dead, we agree human life has ceased to exist. Even though the heart, kidneys, muscles, sensory nerves, and so forth, are still functional, an individual with an irreversibly nonfunctional brain is properly regarded as no longer alive human person. Since we accept the central requirement of a functioning brain that has at least some semblance of what we call human qualities, before admitting that even an otherwise live human body can be a human person we can apply this criterion to the case of the fetus." Dr. Benjamin Libet, Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco 94143 "Human Life'' Testimony.” Science, vol. 213, no. 4504, 1981, pp. 154–156. JSTOR, JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/1687120. "We must not confuse potentiality with actuality. An embryo is a potential human being. It can, granted the woman’s choice, develop into an infant. But what it actually is during the first trimester is a mass of relatively undifferentiated cells that exist as a part of a woman’s body. If we consider what it is rather than what it might become, we must acknowledge that the embryo under three months is something far more primitive than a frog or a fish. To compare it to an infant is ludicrous. . . . That tiny growth, that mass of protoplasm, exists as a part of a woman’s body. It is not an independently existing, biologically formed organism, let alone a person. That which lives within the body of another can claim no right against its host. Rights belong only to individuals, not to collectives or to parts of an individual." Leonard Peikoff The facts do not cease to exist when you ignore them.
So newborns are right out then?
As are the mentally retarded apparently.
Of course not. The criterion for cognitive and uniquely human reasoning is fulfilled within 7 to 9 months of fetal development. At this time the brain starts to function as a whole and is producing a unique level of human reasoning that distinguishes us from other animals.
Infanticide before 7 months is cool then. Huh. You must be quite the fun one at all the parties!
7 to 9 months in fetal development. Not past birth. You must not know how to read. Not a surprising fact considering Pro-Lifers tend to be less educated. http://news.gallup.com/poll/127559/education-trumps-gender-predicting-support-abortion.aspx
I'm sorry, I gave you the benefit of the doubt in assuming you couldn't possibly mean that humans exhibit reasoning at 7 months past conception. I was wrong you truly do believe that. How odd.
u/duktoma was right, you do sound like you would be fun at parties.
When the debate is lost, slander becomes the tool of the loser.
Says the guy who thinks he won the debate by calling another guy uneducated
I made an argument. The other individual responded with a question that took the form an insult. I responded in turn by answering his question, and by providing evidence which shows that the movement he identifies with i.e being pro-life, is not as educated as the pro-choice movement. He then continued with another misrepresented insult and I decided to disengage.

But why?
This is the part that matters. Sure, they can make a distinction, but they also have to explain why it’s morally relevant. They also have to explain if humans have rights because of what they do, what they are, or what they’re capable of (which is actually just “what they are” stated in a different way). Then, they have to show why that’s a morally relevant reason to assign rights. Saying “they don’t display sentient thought (yet)” so they don’t have human rights is as asinine as saying “they have a different skin color so they don’t have human rights.” It’s claiming a moral distinction without explaining why the distinction carries moral weight.
Very well explained. Now if only we could get an answer!
Rights come from is from human sapience. We have the ability to think, to reason. We, alone on planet Earth, are self-aware. It makes us human beings and not animals. Therefore, from our cognitive ability, we have the natural right to liberty, to have freedom of thought and speech and religion (or lack thereof.) And because we have a natural right to liberty, we also have a natural right to life, to keep that liberty going (because, obviously, killing us would also attack our natural right to liberty.) And derived from those two rights, there is a natural right to property, or to owning that which we legitimately acquire. And also, I would argue, we have a natural right to revolution–that when institutions threaten our natural rights, we have the right, or perhaps better described as the duty, to reform or fix those institutions. Whether that involves public education, advocacy, electoral campaigns, referenda, civil disobedience, or at the very extreme end of the scale, armed revolt, we have a right to fix those institutions that harm us and threaten our rights. Now why am I going into rights theory? I delve into this academic subject because there is really only one category of entity that has rights: people. Inanimate objects such as rocks, computers, and my foot do not have rights. Ideas and dreams do not rights. Fictional characters do not have rights. Abstract notions such as “a society” or “a culture” do not have rights either. I anticipate you will bring up tragic examples of the Jews, Disabled, Native Americans and Slavery, as examples on why we can't define personhood or life, but these points are moot and invalid. Because these definitions were established on a personal discriminatory basis without any scientific, medical, biologically or ethical basis. The point is, individual persons have rights. And that leads directly into one of the major points surrounding the abortion debate. Let's look at the process. It starts with an unfertilized egg, then a fertilized egg. The fertilized egg is unaware of its own existence and does not have a brain. Aborting a fertilized egg is definitely not murder or taking a life. It had no brain and never knew it existed. It merely had the potential to become a conscious human. That same "potential" to become a human existed before the egg was even fertilized. Even at the end of the second trimester, the fertilized egg still has a nervous system no more conscious than that of an animal fetus. It is still not self-aware. If it is aborted it is really no different than if it had never existed in the first place, this qualifications still show that abortion is not taking a life. Destroying a clump of cells that had no conscious brain is not murder, nor is it taking a life, it never knew it existed, it is really no different than if the fetus were never conceived in the first place. It had the potential to turn into a conscious human in the future but that same "potential" existed before the egg was even fertilized. The prevailing medical opinion is that there simply is not yet sufficient maturation of the developing brain and nervous system to give the fetus any real ability to achieve consciousness or self-awareness that makes the fetus a person. The conclusion that follows from this is inescapable: A fetus is not a person and therefore an abortion does not constitute murder.
That "good portion of the movement" only believes that because basically they know the "rights begin at birth" argument is very very silly at best. So, grasping for straws to hang on to their pro-death proclivities, they came up with the idea that you don't deserve rights if you aren't quite developed enough. So one moment, you are a nothing deserving of zero human rights and it's probably best for the whole world if you are exterminated.  But the next moment, you are "uniquely human" and deserve not to be killed. What changed between those two moments? Oh, you grew another neuron.
The capacity for that level of reasoning, or does the person have to have it at the exact moment in question? For example, an inebriated man who is vomiting and passing out on the bathroom floor- is his life up for debate?
Of course not. The mentally disabled, newborns, people in comma's and other what if's that pro-lifers try to come up, all fit within the EEG criterion of personhood because of the distinguishing feature of what constitutes personhood i.e a unique level of cognitive function. Isn't present till about 7 to 9 months give or take during fetal development. "What makes us distinctly human, according to Bennett and many other neuroscientists, is the outer layer of the brain, called the neocortex. This critical portion of the brain is the seat of consciousness and complex thought. It enables a person to be aware and respond to what surrounds him. Starting about 28 weeks, there is a burst of connections made between the neurons in all parts of the neocortex by cells appropriately called interneurons. "The bulk of what we do with our brains," Dr. Marin-Padilla of Dartmouth said, "is done by these interneurons. These little guys allow you to write, play tennis and carry out a variety of complex functions." Studies seem to support the notion that 28 weeks marks a dramatic turning point in the fetus's brain development and is more important than birth itself." http://articles.latimes.com/1990-03-19/local/me-476_1_brain-stem/2
The idea that a fetus doesn't become "human enough" or "distinctly human" enough until 7 months gestation is just silliness. It's grasping at straws to try and justify your desire for legal abortion. A fetus is "distinctly human" because... It has human parents It is a living organism It has a full set of human DNA If it ain't "distinctly human", what on earth is it? Bread? Apples? Churches? Very small rocks? A duck!
But not every person's brain functions to that level. So is your point that merely having it is what matters, or that it functions as it is supposed to?
I don't think it's fair for you to be down voted so much for this comment. It is true, of course, that everyone has their own standard. But what is a human level of reasoning? It is so vague that it still begs the question, what is a human?
Pretty good but the ending was brilliant.
YES!  True and funny!
HUMAN RIGHTS
For mobile and non-RES users | More info | -1 to Remove | Ignore Sub
So all my life, I've always been pretty liberal. I always regarded abortion as something that's not a big deal, after all it's "just a fertilized egg and not a life yet". Wow was I wrong.I was listening to a debate where someone from the pro-life side explained the actual medical procedure of abortion and saw graphic imagery of what is done. I was disgusted. I found it so reprehensible and evil I felt a surge of anger inside me. Though I do think that in some cases such as if a woman is pregnant with cancer, or the birth might threaten her life and other really dark circumstances.. Well what can you really do it's a huge tragedy.I'm just disgusted by all of this. I was lied to about abortion my whole life. I'm 28 years old now. I always regarded pro-lifers as ignorant dogmatists like some media outlets teach you to think about them. I have decided to join the pro-life side, but being pro-life I feel like I'm also pro-woman. If I was fooled all this time, it made me think about the young mothers who may have made an irrational decision and the consequences and regrets they may be living with. I can't even imagine how much that must weigh on someone's conscious.I can't be the only one here who's been lied to and in  the dark about this whole procedure their whole life. Is this common?
Very much so.  This is exactly why the pro-abortion side tries to censor photos of aborted children.
It really is a movement of euphemisms. They censor not only images, but words. They are "pro-choice" and lie about when life begins.
https://twitter.com/TopBoyTanners/status/997208531341324295
No you’re not. One of the biggest achievements of the pro-choice side is how they’ve effectively couched their arguments with euphemisms and blocked all efforts to have an actual discussion of what happens during an abortion. Why do you think they oppose showing ultrasound scans to mothers? People are lead to believe an abortion is just a neat, tidy procedure that rids the mom of some bodily discomfort. Like excretion. But as you’ve since found out, that’s not the case. Below is a YouTube video on what happens during the process: https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=ozUZzuzBCMc
Does what happens during the procedure change anything though? Like if it were a neat a tidy procedure would it then be ok?
No it clearly doesn’t. But visuals are powerful and it might help win over more people to our side. The more facts and knowledge we produce about abortions the better for us. If not the debate gets clogged up in euphemisms.
Isn't that like the rarest kind of abortion though? It seems way more emotional than factual.
Surgical abortions? Nope. They are more common than medical abortions. https://www.google.co.uk/amp/s/mobile.reuters.com/article/amp/idUSL1N1D10FQ
That article says thats not the case in many other places and the reasons the US is different is because of laws against them. Also I was mainly referring to the fact that the really bad looking ones are usually the very late term ones which are the rarest.
The look of the dead human person after being killed has no baring on the morality of it. You are the one trying to make an emotional appeal.
True, but then why show pictures in the first place?
Because they make you pause and think intellectually about an issue one might otherwise be apathetic to or misinformed about. That’s just basic human behaviour.
In my experience, it's usually a conversation-starter.
That’s fair. Late-term abortions are generally not legal anyways so it’s not much use campaigning against them. As for the surgical abortions in the US, perhaps US pro-lifers can run with that. Now you’re right that those abortions are rarer outside the US but still, do you remember the key picture of the civil rights movement? The dog biting that boy? That wasn’t the typical experience of the civil rights campaigner but it was still a powerful and persuasive image. Also remember the picture of the slave with the disfigured back and Alan Kurdi, the Syrian refugee. Again those were not typical images of those populations but they were still useful. I have never seen a tutorial on what happens during a medical abortion but if people have that info, they should share it as well. We should always rely on facts above emotion and we should make clear that surgical abortions are rarer outside the USA. But that should not preclude us from showing what happens during such an abortion. Especially as these videos are not intended to shock (it’s not a dismembered foetus) but to educate.
Abortions are legal up to birth in a few states in the US and legal until 20 weeks or viability (states define this as 22-28 weeks typically).
I felt the the same (just a clump of cell type feeling) when I was a young adult.  I didn't make the realization until my then girlfriend went through pregnancy with my child.  Good on you for seeing the truth without that!
Join the pro–life feminist side! We support human rights for all human beings, before and after birth.
This is great to hear! It gives me hope that there are people out there who might change their on abortion and see how horrible it is like you did. Yep it's very sad the false narrative that the pro-choice side has set up that pro-lifers are bigoted women haters. This is absolutely nonsense. The irony is these aforementioned women that pro-choicers say we hate, those women were once babies in the womb and we are the ones wanting to protect them and the pro-choicers were the one's who say it's a human right's violation if they can't kill them. I am in quite a different position than you. I have always been prolife. I saw pictures of ripped up babies when i was a kid. No amount of dressing up "abortion" as a "right to choose" or "women's health" or "reproductive rights" or  whatever can change the horror that is abortion. I agree with you on cases where the mothers life is in danger. In Ireland (before the recent abortion referendum) abortion was outlawed but was allowed if the mother's life was in danger ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Protection_of_Life_During_Pregnancy_Act_2013 ) I think this is good because in cases such as an ectopic pregnancy there is no way to save the human life and if nothing is done the fallopean tube will burst and the mother will die. I do think there should be an exception when the mothers life is in danger. Also abortion actually isn't needed always and sometimes it's actually EASIER and SAFER to do an induced childbirth because it's quicker during late term pregnancy. Here's a video of an obstetrician gynecologist and former abortionist explaining this https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ysl1tRnk-ig
I was also lied to. I think a lot of us were. I found out the truth when I had an unplanned pregnancy. My pro-"choice" friends sent texts telling me to hurry and get the abortion over with. My pro-life friends and even strangers supported me and are still supporting me. One family from my parents' church gave me all their baby stuff. They made me feel strong instead of weak. Now I'm passing it on to other moms!
How killing babies ever came to be seen as progressive and a right is beyond me.
It's up to us to redefine the progressive agenda on moral grounds and end the rampant tyranny of "if it feels good, do it" liberalism.  I pray that the outcome of #metoo will be in this direction.
Absolutely. I was a die-hard liberal and unapologetic pro-choice activist until I went to law school. Now I'm passionately pro-life.
Pro-life feminism is a thing!  It’s how I identify.  I want to end abortion and smash the patriarchy (which is two sides of the same coin, really). But yes.  Your experience is very common.  A lot of people feel very shocked and deceived about the way the reality of abortion is obscured, euphemized, or flat-out lied about.  I’ve been pro-life my whole life, and even I didn’t really connect to what was really going on until I was in my twenties.  You’re not at all alone.
I don't ID as a feminist for a plethora of reasons, even though I agree with a fair bit, not all, of radical feminism, but your statement that abortion is just a different side of the patriarchy is so interesting and true. I've found that most pro-choice women are genuinely under the impression they're doing good for women; but pro-choice "feminist" men are in favour of abortion for the reason that abortion is a way for them to use women as sexual objects with no negative consequence for themselves. They don't care about bodily autonomy or whatever the latest buzzword is, it's just that current day liberal feminism, which is also in favour of porn and prostitution, is very convenient and beneficial to them.
Check out Rehumanize International! They're a non-partisan, non-religious, pro-life organization and they have a lot of great resources for a more "whole life" and feminist approach to the pro-life position.
Yes, very common. Prolifers and our position is never reflected in it's true light by the liberal media. You can always ask any questions you have about it here and I think for the most part we can do a good job of answering. Welcome. Glad to have you on our side.
Took me having a kid to open my eyes sadly
Thank you for sharing. It is not an easy thing to do. Many just become angry, not at those promoting abortion, but at those who are revealing what it really is. Would you mind sharing the video that really made the point for you with us?
Thank you so much for being open minded enough to change, it’s always good to have another person on the side of life ! And you have a special perspective as someone who used to be on the opposite side; you can use that to bring other people that have been lied to about what it means to be pro life. No matter what, people will criticize you, but as long as you know that you’re fighting for rights of people that can’t fight for themselves, it’s worth it.
I’m ok with being criticized if it’s a result of speaking the truth and standing up for what’s right (high five!).
I mean, the problem is that its hard to blame you for this when so much of the side is monopolized who people who are actually crazy and fundamentalist. The religious right is almost the biggest ally to abortion because it comes off almost like a controlled opposition that helps people see it as exclusive to people who base their ideology off of arbitrary nonsense.
Are we the same person? Id recommend the book 'Gosnell'. The horrors that happened under his care have made me prolife and has made me realize the prolife movement is the real womens movement
Are you referring to the Video from Live Action by Dr. Levantino? Because I hope you know it's highly misleading.
Nope
In what ways?
Well first off, the source is highly biased. Levatino has appeared in a number of anti-abortion “education” films. “He appeared in a pro-life film released in 2011, The Gift of Life, and serves on the medical board of advisors for Priests for Life, whose leaders asked him to speak for their ‘Silent No More’ and ‘Shockwaves’ campaigns at the March for Life. He also has a hand in running misleading and dishonest Crises Pregnancy Centers. Levatino has reportedly run so-called “crisis pregnancy centers” with his wife. “Levatino is the co-founder of Heather’s Place, a nonprofit foundation which provides grants to pregnancy assistance centers worldwide. He and his wife also founded and operate Turning Point, a pregnancy center in Las Cruces, N.M. He also basically lied to Congress on the issue of fetal pain, saying it's present before 20 weeks, even though we know that is completely false Levatino has testified before Congress previously and uses very emotional language and graphics as part of his anti-abortion presentations. Levatino's testimony was light on the science on fetal pain and heavy on the emotion. But despite how awful and biased your source is, maybe the video is still truthful, right? Nope. First off the majority of abortions are performed under 8 weeks, and over half at 6 weeks.. And Here you can view a comparison of a mouse and human embryo at these stages. As you can tell, it is very difficult to tell them apart without labels. The videos, however, show basically a fully formed and developed fetus that does not represent what the overwhelming majority of abortions look like. At this stage, the fetus has no individual brain or autonomous function. He claims the very notion that abortion is sometimes necessary to safeguard a woman’s health is a lie: “You NEVER need a late-term abortion to save a woman’s life." Even though that's completely false.
I'd like to know an answer to this too. It's usually, well, it's late term and rare, as if rarity and looks have some influence on the morality of killing innocent human beings. I guess if you don't look like a developed human, maybe you are disfigured in some way and I only kill a few of these people a year then somehow it makes it ok. But apparently we are the emotional ones.
What a coincidence that I'm seeing you here, I saw you from a discussion on fascism in r/jordanpeterson
Oh yeah that discussion how fascism is an evil ideology that brainwashed people to find it acceptable (kind of like abortion) nice to see you here.
Pro-choicer here. The procedure of an abortion doesn't bother me. There's a lot of propaganda floating around out there that incorrectly describes the procedure. I was hoping the CDC had a link I could share here to hopefully shed some light on the actual process, but the closest I came was WebMD. Therefore I'm curious about what kinds of things you saw that immediately changed your view? Please give a description if you don't mind. Please note, I'm not out to change anyone's mind. I am pro-choice simply because I believe there should be an option to choose, or not choose.
Did you ever get taught biology in school?
Never covered the topic in any of my biology classes personally. I was even in AP anatomy and physiology.. Just never really researched the subject or thought about it past what pro-choicers had to say. I also come from a very liberal state so the idea of a male being involved in these conversations is sort of taboo.

You're not even listening to what I'm saying.
I dunno, it seems to be a direct response to the first sentence.
Why do you think women always need emotional support for it? They feel guilty for a reason
My mother had an abortion when she was 14. She's had problems with alcoholism, depression, various neuroses and what I think might be BPD.. She's likely to explode on people in fits of rage and though she stays sober for the most part, relapses are scary. I snooped through her journal one day and saw she wrote about her abortion. How she still doesn't forgive herself for it and it still haunts her. People will say this is "internalized misogyny" but everyone in my family has always been supportive of my mother and there for her. Even when she hits rock bottom on her drinking binges we tell her to get her act together and don't pander to her but we always welcome her back when she's sober and displays she's actively working toward improving her situation. No one in my family would demean her or cast her out for making this decision and my family certainly isn't misogynistic given it's mostly women. She's never expressed that anyone made her feel bad about it. Honestly I think this all began with that abortion. That's when she started to booze too. I dated a woman before who had multiple abortions-same story. It's really tragic. Lots of women might think at first "this is no big deal" but that evil haunts them the rest of their lives.
This is a particularly tragic consequence of the mainstream abortion rhetoric - it takes away the opportunity for mothers to truly grieve, because they're surrounded by the idea that they did the right thing and they had every right, so what is there to be sad about? Look into Silent No More, they're a movement all about post-abortion regret and healing from it through sharing their stories.
And even though there’s a well-proven link between abortion and depression, pro-choicers deny that link because they think we want to use it as an excuse to take away their precious abortion rights. So women are literally suffering in silence and no one is turning attention to their issues because pro-choicers dont want to accept there’s an issue.

Being blunt here, I find murdering babies to be reprehensible, disgusting, and a true "abomination" (even though I'm not super religious or anything). That's clearly what it is. That being said, there may be situations where this procedures need to be done in the case of a medical tragedy, but the idea of a person having the right to murder their unborn baby because they weren't prepared to take care of it is incredibly selfish and deplorable to me.
Notice how the pro-abortion side always tries to distract from that simple truth. It's as obvious to me that abortion is wrong as the most heinous crime we can dream up. And they just sit there trying to convince you that your moral conscience is somehow wrong about this.

All of your arguments were debunked long ago. The only criterion that bears any weight in this consideration is that it is a living human. Being at an early stage of development doesn't matter, it's still a human being whose life you are extinguishing. That is clearly wrong, no matter how you try to excuse it.
Still a very close minded way to "argue" BTW. Yes, abortion "extinguishes a human life" but that is not always wrong. Taking someone off life support who will never wake up isn't wrong. Killing someone in self-defense isn't wrong. So clearly, "The only criterion that bears any weight in this consideration is that it is a living human" is bullshit and you are just trying to avoid actually engaging in the issue while maintaining your beliefs.
Nonsense. The decision to kill even in self defense is only a weighty matter because a human life is on the line. And there's a huge difference between someone dying of natural causes and actually killing them. Your comparisons are bad and they change nothing.
Ditto. Self-defense isn't only if a human life is on the line? What if it is only injury? Most people think that is still justified. Oh really? I thought the ONLY thing that mattered was whether it was a human life on the line? Now you are adding in whether the decision is action vs. inaction.
You missed the point. Self defense, if it takes someone's life, is tragic, even if it was justified to save someone. It carries the moral weight of taking human life. As for natural causes, don't be stupid. I've never heard any sane person try to argue that dying of natural causes is no morally different from being murdered.
I did not miss the point. I am saying that "human life" isn't the only thing to consider. We consider the rights we have to our bodies, property rights, and our own prosperity when making moral decisions as well. All subjective experience matters, including for non-humans. If you see a child drowning in the pond, and you don't go to save them, when you easily could have, isn't that just as bad as killing them yourself?

It absolutely true that killing a child is a terrible act. The pro-choice position is not based on deceiving people about the procedure involved or the truth about the development of the fetus. It is based on the significant differences that exist between a 5 year old and an 18 week old fetus. The fetus, at 18 weeks and earlier does not have a functioning brain. It does not experience anything at ALL in the world. No sights, no sounds, no bodily experiences like pain. It has the sentience of a plant. (Which is none).  92 percent are performed within the first 13 weeks.  So, with most abortions being performed on beings that cannot suffer at all, even if the procedure is disturbing, who is the victim? Who is worse off?
I've seen photos of an aborted 18 week old fetus and that's a living creature. I don't care if its brain is functioning or not, to me it's the equivalent of going into a mother bird's nest and smashing all of her eggs for no good reason. It makes me especially angry seeing the young college girls at my school asking for donations to support planned parenthood. I don't think they even understand the evil they're supporting. Yeah planned parenthood does lots of good things for peoples' health, but infanticide is not one of them.
Infanticide refers to killing a born child. You are absolutely correct it is a living creature. But, and I am not trying to be hostile, do you eat any meat products? Most people do not think being alive is the only thing that makes something worthy of protection. There are certain qualities of humans that make them important and it wrong to kill them. Obviously killing a plant is not a moral concern.
I was unaware there's an ethical difference between murdering a born child verses an unborn child who still has potential to live and experience life. Used to eat meat products but am vegan now. Regardless, cows and chickens don't kill their young because they don't feel like taking care of them. Even then, humans are above that because they're conscious and have the ability to think abstractly. Our moral compass and ability to coexist in civilization has been greatly beneficial to our species since our hunter gatherer days.
I didn't say that. I just think we should use words correctly. I appreciate your consistency at least. This is confusing. Do you suggest we reach moral conclusions based on reason or based on our "moral compass"?
You really think a cow or a chicken is on the same level of importance as a human life? Are you a cannibal? What's confusing about a moral compass? Literally every advanced culture on earth goes by very similar moral concepts.. Stuff like don't steal, don't seduce your neighbors wife or husband, don't murder people, don't murder children. When you do these things it tends to piss off a LOT of people and create your own little "hell on earth" so to speak. I am pretty well read on philosophy and understand the ideas behind moral relativism but when that line of thinking is applied to the real world outside of ivory tower theorizing it tends to result in evil.
Could you please point out where I implied any of this? How does this support your argument? Most people in these "advanced civilizations" support abortions and have legalized it. Clearly opposing abortion is not part of our shared moral compass.
By noting my "consistency" being against abortion but also being vegan. Even if I wasn't a vegan I would still be anti-abortion because human life is more valuable than the lives of domesticated livestock, at least from the human perspective. Because lots of people who support abortion are probably like me.. They were unaware of how severely disgusting and evil of a practice it is because they live in a more liberal political region where this stuff is very "hush hush" or all you hear about it is "her body her choice" and if a male even brings up the conversation they're berated or shamed from being a part of the conversation. Also, horrible bad stuff is "legal" in lots of places. Look at the economics of most scandinavian countries, they're going bankrupt and 50%-60% of a citizens wages get sucked up by the state. To me, that's theft. I would hate to live there. Look at all the messed up stuff that's legal in the US.

That is not true. And . There are about 600,000 abortions in the US. 600,000 ÷ .08 is 48,000. That's still 48,000 kids killed annually. What is it about feeling pain that you feel makes killing an entity with it wrong? Do you think killing animals (besides humans) that can feel pain is also wrong? Would you say it is right or wrong to kill someone with congenital pain insensitivity?
Your evidence doesn't address the issue at hand. "A synthesis of available evidence was published in the Journal of the American Medical Association in 2005 by experts from the University of California, San Francisco, and elsewhere, and their report concluded: “Evidence regarding the capacity for fetal pain is limited but indicates that fetal perception of pain is unlikely before the third trimester.” The third trimester begins at 27 to 28 weeks from conception." https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/201429# Very few abortions will be taking place after the fetus develops the ability to feel pain. A vast majority will take place before the fetus is able to have any subjective experience at all. Subjective experience is necessary for a being to be of any moral concern. Fetuses don't have that. They are living, but they lack sentience, like a plant does. That is why it matters.
My bad, I was referring to a rather specific statement made the claim that a fetus before 18 weeks doesn't have a brain. Only one of your three statements was true, and I wasn't referring to the pain statement. While it is true that the brain has not developed to an advanced point where its pain receptors are developed highly enough to have the same experience we do, it absolutely is not true that the fetus does not have a brain. Do you admit what you have said is untrue? Have I misunderstood it? Why does subjective experience matter? Wouldn't that mean it is morally acceptable to kill a person while they are sleeping or in a coma?
I will absolutely admit that I did not express myself correctly regarding the development of the brain. Before 18 weeks, it seems to be fairly clear that the fetus does not experience anything. The nerves are communicating such that reflexes are enacted, but there is no sensory input coming into a conscious mind. Taste, hearing, etc comes in around 20 weeks. This I think demonstrates the my position about subjective experience. A being that has subjective experience can be wronged. An animal can be wronged by making it feel pain, a human can be wronged in many numbers of ways because people have desires. A tree can't be wronged and a rock cannot be wronged. A person can be wronged while they are in a coma or sleeping. Although they are not presently conscious, that person has desires, like the desire to live, that can be thwarted while they are sleeping. There is a person there that exists over time that will resume their stream of consciousness soon.
Uhh, read the links I gave you again. And The brain may be underdeveloped, but there is clearly enough brain activity for there to be some experience going on. I agree that before twenty weeks it may not have the further developed senses, but you haven't explained in a consistent way how that is ethically significant. Why does pain affect the morality of an act? What is it about inflicting pain on a person that makes you feel it is wrong? You didn't answer my question. If consciousness gives something moral value, then do I lose moral value if I lose conciousness?
I have now read them twice, and they all fit within what I said. The nerves are communicating enough for reflexive action. Your brain can do a ton of things without you being aware of them, like heartbeat and breathing. Your source says it is exactly these kinds of things that develop first. Pain is a very basic sensory experience. Here is what we think about that: "The perception of pain requires an awareness of an unpleasant stimulus — receptors throughout the body must send a signal to the brain, where it can be processed as pain. One reason the JAMA review finds early pain perception unlikely is that the connections between the thalamus, a sort of relay center in the brain, and the cortex have not yet formed. This happens between 23 and 30 weeks gestational age, and the authors argue these connections are a precursor for pain perception." Your sources do not show that the fetus has experiences earlier than 18 weeks. Pain is usually defined as an undesirable experience. It is bad by definition to the one who experiences it. It is wrong to inflict upon someone an undesirable state. If you LOSE consciousness, as in you lose the capacity for consciousness, then yes, you lose moral value. If your body temporally turns of your consciousness to rest or heal, clearly you do not. It is only a break in your stream of experience that will resume shortly. You still have desires that are simply not being consciously held in your brain. You as a person have no less a claim to these desires during this time however.
My understanding of your earlier comment was that you were saying the brain doesn't even start developing until much later in gestation, when in reality it starts quite early and continues until adulthood. Please quote the part in my comment where I denied that fetuses cannot feel pain until the weeks 20+. Your comment here makes me feel as if you haven't read anything I've said. In fact, much of what you've said here makes me feel as if you haven't read anything I've said. I will repeat myself as many times as I must, since you obviously haven't read the papers or have a very limited understanding of what "experience" is. Again, at around eight weeks the fetus can move. They swallow and have taste at 16 weeks. Clearly there is an experience going on there. While abortion is still legal, the inner ear forms and they react to sounds outside of the womb. So there is enough brain structure there to have an experience. It's true that they don't have deeper experience until 20+ weeks, but that's not what you claimed. You said they had none. Why? Why does having consciousness give someone moral value? You keep saying things about future consciousness, which seem to apply to an embryo just as easily. So why does present/previous consciousness matter, when all your justifications refer to future consciousness?
The fetus/embryo/clump of cells, at 18 weeks, 18 days, or 18 seconds is a potential human: it's a human-in-the-making. As such, it's worthy of the respect and dignity that fetuses older than 18 weeks + one day get.
I think it's necessary to correct an important distinction here: the zygote/embryo/fetus is not actually a "potential human" or "human-in-the-making," it's biologically already a human. (i.e. a living organism of the species homo sapien) That distinction is important because it provides justification for the second part of your post, that a human life is worthy of respect and dignity regardless of age.
Ahh, even better. THIS I stand behind 100% and I thank you for advancing the dialogue with this clarification. The reason I adopted the "potential human" stance is to show those who support abortion that, regardless of how many weeks old it is, they're for killing a HUMAN BABY–a being that's not just a clump of insentient cells. On another thread someone brought up, "Well, what makes them different than germs?" (or some other BS) and I shut them up with, "They're a human in the making. They have the potential." This, in part, served to inform them then that aborting a being, regardless of how long he's been in the womb, is wrong. In other words, maybe I cared more for the repercussions of their ignorance than what I know to be right, and that's that a being in the womb IS human. Thanks for showing me it's OK to unabashedly continue to hold that belief 100% of the time.
IMO, it's important to clarify that not only is an embryo a human, but a human organism. Otherwise people will hit you over the head with "skin cells are human too".
Great point!!
I just don't agree with this at all. There are qualities of people that make it wrong to kill them. They can feel pain, they have very strong desires to live on into the future, they have people that love them, and things they want to experience in the future. None of these apply to a fetus that is to be aborted. If a million fetuses were magically brought into existence, and then all of them killed, no one would have suffered. None of them ever experienced anything, and even if they "would have," that doesn't mean much because they never did.
So does this mean that you're also opposed to the killing of non-human animals that can feel pain? This describes many non-human animals as well. What makes humans any different? So the only humans deserving of life are those who currently have loved ones?
The only thing that matters is whether or not they are an innocent and living human being. There is no situation in life where one human being can directly kill another innocent human being with the exception of self defense (which is also taken very seriously) on demand and without apology other than abortion. Find me one and then maybe I will consider your point. Until then, you have no point.
At this point I know I won't convince those who think erroneously like you, and I don't care to. I just wanted to comment for future readers so they don't see that this thread had any unaddressed hints of narrow-mindedness, but I won't respond any further to other posts re:the humanness of a fetus/embryo because I don't see the worth in arguing about something so fundamental–that a being in a womb IS human. At the time of conception, a human was made. I also find it pointless for someone to maintain on here that a fetus at that age isn't a human (albeit one in the early stages of development) only because they disagree with that, as though that were an opinion instead of a well-known (but commonly ignored) fact. "A fetus or embryo is so small and dependent and so unformed. It doesn’t even look human. But a human fetus at, say, six weeks old does look human – it looks like we all did at six weeks old. It looks like a six-week-old human" because it IS human. –This organization puts it better than I did above.
But abortion does harm someone, so that analogy isn't really relevant. I'm not the OP, but I think the point he was making was that seeing the results of abortion made it clearer to him that the unborn are human like us, sharing a lot of our same physical characteristics, despite some pro-choicers aiming to downplay or obfuscate those similarities.

The book she wrote is here: https://www.plough.com/en/topics/life/relationships/you-carried-me

Bro this video could be from God himself and I ain’t making time for a thirty minute video posted by a random redditor.
I skipped around a bit and got some of the meat out of it. TD;LW: PP is somewhere where you can potentially go with your close family member or family friend who is raping you to basically get rid of the evidence (ie. pregnancy).  Obviously, this can masquerade as "consent" when that rapist has control over you in this way. The argument goes that PP does not adequately report these situations, and in fact, spends more time covering its ass than trying to train staff to better recognize and report these situations. I don't know the specifics of the law or ethics in this regard, but I really didn't need yet another reason to find PP a shitty organization, so I will let someone else address that.
I kinda feel like this was the point of the video. The argument isn't that strong, and it isn't really going to influence anyone who's pro choice. If you already don't like PP its just another reason why they're bad. If you think they're killing thousands of people it doesn't really hold a candle to that. I'm confident what you're describing has happened, a rapist as coerced their victim into getting an abortion at PP. I'm sure their policies could be better to deal with the issue, but I would be  shocked if it happened at all often.
Yeah, sometimes I feel like it is a big pile-on to make PP out to actually be not only killing children, but also eating them and making lampshades out of them too, while selling their stem cells to rich liberals so that they can live forever once they have purged the population of the world of all undesirables. PP killing children is more than bad enough for me.  Their handling of it as "women's health care" disgusts me, and that's really as far as I need to go to dislike them.  I don't need any more. That said, I think people are frustrated with the position of PP in society.  The fact that it basically goes about its murderous business with nary an issue and is considered a standard-bearer of progressivism frustrates a lot of people and makes people want to find that one thing that PP does that will finally get most people to wake up and realize that they're beyond fucked up as an organization. I understand how they feel, but honestly, if killing children by itself doesn't wake up most people, very little else will shock them.  It's going to require time and patient efforts to overcome the brainwashing that put people where they are today.  Adding yet another minor crime to their list is probably not going to be the silver bullet that kills that beast.
Yeah. If there were evidence of a systematic cover-up of abuse being conducted by PP that would mean something. It would shatter their image of being pro-woman and its genuinely evil. PP aren't cartoon villains and its totally unrealistic.
Especially when he's so far spent the first full minute talking about having young kids.... I could not care less.
The thought behind a 'rape/incest' exception that pro-lifers too often give away is sad. Does a child conceived in rape not deserve life in the same way all other children do? Pro-life. Anti-abortion. Zero exceptions.
Upvote. My only exception is when the mother's life is in danger, or if the baby progressing through the pregnancy would cause the death of both the mother and the baby. But you're 100% right, a baby conceived out of rape did not ask for that to be the case, they're completely innocent in the picture and shouldn't be killed just because of what some sicko did. The baby shouldn't be punished for the actions of someone else, is what I'm saying.
People have to remember that abortion is the direct killing of a human being. So why is killing a human being a solution to rape? How is adding an atrocity to an atrocity helpful? The thing with exceptions to saving the mothers life... when is it ever necessary to kill the baby directly to save the mothers life? That would be using the killing of the baby as a means to the end of saving the mother. But under what circumstances would that be necessary? Most people agree that removing an ectopic pregnancy is not really the same as an abortion. Can anyone cite a medical case where the only solution that would save the mothers life was to directly kill the unborn child?
Basically, I thought he made an interesting point that PP and others always bring up incestuous rape as the case that “deserves” abortion the most for the sake of the victim. Walsh points out that abortion only allows abuse to continue as the evidence can be destroyed with no one the wiser, thereby benefitting the abuser, not the abused.
Matt Walsh sounds like Alex Jones if he popped a half a xanax

MLK literally won the Margaret Sanger award.
Why does it matter that this woman is MLK jr's niece? It always comes up and it doesn't mean anything.
Why are you here? Looking over your recent comment history, it seems quite clear that you're a left-wing pro-choicer and are only here to troll and disrupt this subreddit. Don't you have anything better to do than troll a subreddit you aren't welcome in?
If I am disrupting the subreddit I hate to see what actual trolls are doing.
It doesn't matter. Though it's a cool tidbit. Same if it was a pro-choice video

THAT'S OUR GOVERNOR! Props to the pro-life democrats out there who aren't afraid to show some chutzpah.
God bless pro-life Democrats.
He's the only major pro life Dem in the country. Even Democrats from deeply conservative states like North Dakota and Montana are 100% pro abortion.
Anti-choice? Sorry, I prefer anti-murder of innocent children.
He ran as openly pro-life.  "Pandering" would have been going back on that to appease the abortion industry lobby.
If there were more pro-life Dems, I would be a democrat
Be the change you want to see in the world. Abortion doesn't need to be as partisan an issue as it is
Now here is a Democratic politician I could at least take seriously. Unfortunately, the choice is usually between assholes and people who are okay with killing children for any reason whatsoever.  And sometimes just assholes who are okay with killing children. At least people like him could give me something to work with in the voting booth.
👍🏽👍🏽 fully support him on this issue
"Anti choice extremists" is the most ridiculous phrase I've heard, and I've been hearing it bandied about lately. "Anti choice". How about "anti murder"?

There is plenty of blame to go around...https://youtu.be/lDShPrRJYlE
This is actually pretty informative, thanks for sharing. I do agree, far to many Republicans are unwilling to seriously ban abortion. Meanwhile, I've heard tons of excuses - even from NRTL: "It'll never pass", "It'll never get out of committee", "The public oppinion isn't right for this yet". We always start with the lamest bills (Late Term Abortion Ban) and walk backwards. The left does the opposite. The left always puts the most radical bills out first, then backtracks and wins on "compromise" from the right. The old two steps forward, one step back tactic. While I'm still thankful for the Heart Beat Bill and others, we should start with Life At Conception and double down until it is reached.
Thank you for your encouraging words!! We have a perfect storm to stop abortion if we can get or lawmakers to take action.

If there was a survey that was given to women at the clinic once they chose to have an abortion, and if this survey had the sincere purpose of knowing why abortion was chosen instead of one of the alternatives, so we can better reduce the things that turn pregnancies into crisis events that make abortion seem like an attractive option, how would you design such a survey? Obviously, there are cases of income, judgment of peers and family, wanting to finish school first, and other reasons. What I want to do is to design a quality poll that gets the actual reasons out on paper in the simplest format possible.How would you design this type of survey? Keep in mind, it would be one administered by those who perform abortions or their staff, so we need to try to design it in such a way that gets to the root of the problem without making it easy for clinic staff to promote an agenda.Thoughts? Help!
Maybe what you should aim for is information on the person's own attitudes about getting an abortion. If they think it's completely moral, if they had no doubts about getting one, if they'd choose it even if alternatives are available, etc - then you at least know that what you're dealing with is a cultural issue and not a 'they feel desperate and as if they have no alternatives' case.
- I would love to ask whether or not she were using contraception, not to judge or shame, but because many people say that free contraception should be accessible and would reduce abortions. If most women who get abortions were actively using contraception, than maybe accessibility to contraception is not really a core solution to the current situation at all, as all contraception is bound to failure. - If the woman is in a [healthy] relationship /marital status, where she has a partner to help her with raising a child, or if she has supportive family/friends, because if she doesn't, than that may be another issue why she would feel alone. Lack of emotional support is really discouraging. - Her age, I don't know what the average age of women who get abortions is, so that would be interesting(?) - Has she ever considered the morality of abortion? This may seem upfront I guess, but I feel like it is very important. So many young women my age never once questioned the morality around abortion, they just accepted it to be okay as it is legal and a socio-cultual norm. If they truly have no uneasiness with abortion, than they may not be there in desperation after all, just find it easier than the alternatives available. I guess a simple list might look like this: Age:Relationship/Marital Status: Reason for abortion: - Financial security - Social reasons - Not fit to be a parent/don't want to be(?) [something along these lines?] - Medical reasons - Mental health/stress Have you considered adoption? Why/why not?
Guttmacher institute already released something like this, polled about 2000 women on what was a reason for their abortion, and what their primary reason was for an abortion. The numbers aren’t super recent (1998 I think and 2004) but those are numbers. I’ll link it when I get back on my laptop.

I am shocked I tell you. Shocked! Who would have thought that making it easier for people to start families people would be more inclined to do it?
There’s a ton of research showing that pro-life policies work. The pro-choice counter narrative is anti-science.
See the problem is I support all these things and think we should implement all these things. The issue is that the Pro Life movement is fairly conservative and is opposed to these types of social policy. Even Pro-Life Catholics who used to endorse the seamless garment philosophy, are now all traditionalists and SSPX sympathizers.
Part of the reason European countries enact such policies and we haven't is because they are trying to prop up their falling birth rates, whereas we normally don't have that problem. Also the article by itself doesn't show that these policies correlate with decreases in abortion and increases in numbers.  We need to know what the trends have been like beyond the seven year window, when these policies started, the rate of spending on these policies and the rate at which people take advantage of them, etc.  What we have here as of right now is merely politicians taking credit for an improved statistic over a certain window of time. EDIT: A quick glance at these numbers makes me think this is merely the continuation of a trend of decreases that began in the late 90s: http://www.johnstonsarchive.net/policy/abortion/ab-hungary.html And that trend may be owing to a court ruling in 1998 (you'll see the numbers seem to peak in 1997): https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abortion_in_Hungary Wikipedia also mentions a pro-life PR campaign and increased adoption support.  I'd be interested to see numbers on babies given up for adoption in Hungary.  This article mentions more newborns taken in by the state: https://budapestbeacon.com/record-numbers-of-hungarian-children-newborns-ending-up-in-state-care/
If you ask 10 Traditionalists and 10 'Seamless Garment' advocates if they support policies that... Encourage marriage and discourage divorce Discourage single motherhood and encourage nuclear families, even with financial incentives. Encourage the native population to have children and educate their children, or spend more time with their kids. I think you'd find 10 out of 10 traditionalists support the policy, and the majority of self-described 'Seamless Garment' people would either be hostile and/or suggest that this was a terrible approach, and what we really need to do is subsidize single mothers and that encouraging mass immigration was a pro-life issue. And I can give my own anecdotal experience: you tell Team Seamless Garment that you're in favor of discouraging single mothers and encouraging nuclear families, their blood tends to run cold. Because 'seamless garment' is a PR campaign for something that has precious little to do with Catholicism, abortion, or even families. Edit: I thought it was so obvious that it didn't need saying, but in case it's not... Hungary? The place run by Orban, the "far right" anti-immigration nationalist who just won a landslide election and run Soros out of the country? Go ahead. Go ask the Seamless Garment people and the Traditionalists about Hungary. See who likes those policies and that approach, and who hates it.
This is especially true when you ask the seamless garment crowd if we should even restrict abortion in addition to their policies. My anecdotal experience has been that the answer is always “no”. It’s also worth noting that while the traditionalist may disagree with such social welfare policies, your average left-winger will think you are morally reprehensible for even daring to suggest that we should disincentivize gay marriage, divorce, and single motherhood. I think the gap is much larger on the left than on the right.
This made it weirder.
Sounds like a hangup you need to get over.
Nope, racism should definitely be a red flag, that's a really good hang up
Only in your weird fantasies is "encourage the native population of a country to have families" some kind of racism. Hungary - where this article is talking about the pro-life victories - is very much pushing a 'keep Hungary Hungarian', anti-immigration vision. This seems apt.
we want to encourage everyone to have families, if you care especially about one race, that's racism as for your meme, yes, it is an especialy extra level of evil when abortion is used as back door genocide to remove an already disadvantaged group, when white babies get killed too, that's murder which is pretty bad by itself
"You are a racist if you care especially about one race." One line later: "It's REAL bad when blacks are aborted, and still-pretty-bad when whites are." Congratulations: you're a racist, by your own standard. Well, at least you're a pro-life racist.
I think what he's trying to say is that Killing white unborn: Bad because it's killing human lives. Killing black unborn: Bad because it's killing human lives, PLUS there's racism involved, so it's bad from that angle as well. It's not trying to minimize the "wrongness" of killing the white unborn, but bringing to light the inherent racism involved with killing the black unborn (which isn't a factor with the former). It's wrong for two distinct, different reasons. I wouldn't say one is necessarily "worse" than the other (because that's kind of a pointless distinction, and the last thing pro-lifers need right now is more in-fighting), but it's worth keeping in mind the elements of racism that go hand-in-hand with black abortion rates. Either way, this is fairly off-topic.
Yeah cuz white Christians having children, populating their own nations, and remaining a majority in the land of their ancestors is weird, am I right? /s
So we wouldn’t be doing this in places like America, Australia or New Zealand right?
All people migrated at one point or another. However, the USA is obviously not a product of the 500+ distinct, warring ethno-linguistic tribes that once inhabited North America after their migration from Siberia. USA is a product of the white Christian settlers, just as modern Egypt is the product of conquering Arab Muslims in Northern Africa, and not the individuals who once inhabited that region. Likewise, Australia is a similar case. The Aboriginals, with an average IQ of 65, still possess no greater than a stone age tribe after 40,000+ years on the Australian continent. However, the white Christians who settled the Australian continent developed it into an advanced civilization within 100 years by the grace of God. New Zealand is a similar case, but not so much, as the Maori are a unique ethno-linguistic people and have a very separate cultural and historical background than the 500+ tribes of North America or the Aboriginals of Australia. USA, Australia, Canada, Britain, Europe, etc. are civilization products of ethnically European peoples who followed the god of the Christian religion. These nations are historically and culturally the product of our people and our religion. So no, the USA does not belong to the 500+ tribes who migrated from Siberia, it belongs chiefly to the Europeans, who settled, fought, and died to build it into the greatest civilization to ever exist on planet Earth.
Lol
Being obsessed with it is, yeah.
Yep, that's racism
Welcoming immigrants is pro-life
I await people saying that supporting whites in South Africa is a pro-life issue. That'll be great. "Being pro-life means granting white South Africans refugee status." I want to see people insist that's pro-life. It'll be a riot. Quite literally, if said in South Africa.
if whites in south Africa fear for their lives there than they should be able to leave and other countries should welcome them in... just like everyone else should be able to
I don’t think that’s entirely true. Most conservative Catholics would strongly favor increasing tax incentives to marry and have children, myself included. This is especially true when people see how inexpensive many of these policies can be. I do, however, think it’s worth noting that the American left is not interested in implementing pro-family policies to reduce abortion. Any policy overlap is purely coincidental. If you were to ask a Republican and a Democrat whether they supported pro-traditional family policies which incentivized marriage, having children, and staying home with them, you would receive two very different responses. You average Democrat would argue that such policies (if supported for the goals I stated above) are anti-gay, anti-single parent, that you’re some kind of anti-woman monster who wants them to be barefoot and pregnant in the kitchen, etc. Their tune changes the instant you say it’s about incentivizing marriage and children. The economic incentives to marry and have children take a backseat to the social agenda of the left. Like /u/yesofcoursenaturally said, for most of the “seamless garment” crowd it’s (in practice) just a cover to trick gullible pro-lifers into supporting left-wing policies
Ever notice how the Seamless Garment people love to bring up everything-but-abortion when there's an abortion discussion on, but it never goes in reverse? Whenever there's a pro-life march or an abortion topic in the news, you'll have the seamless garment crowd immediately trying to say "Yes, but I think (immigration, gun control, littering) is a pro-life issue too, let's talk about that as well! Why aren't these pro-life leaders talking about that?" But when there's a gun control march or an immigration issue up, the same people never suddenly say "Yes, but you know what else is important? Abortion! Let's talk about abortion too, guys!" Try to do it yourself and they look daggers at you. Funny seams in that garment. They only attach in one direction. It's like magic.
I do think we need to be concerned with all of those things, but I agree, if you're going to talk about everything, everything means talking about abortion as well. I also note that there are plenty of people talking about gun control or immigration or whatever.  That's fine.  So someone needs to talk about abortion as well.  I don't think there is a lack of people who are interested in talking about alleviating poverty.
I think for the most part it’s younger pro-lifers seeking to shut down the “you’re just pro-BIRTH” argument preemptively. It’s a tired argument but one that I feel has value. I did mission work in Romania, where, under communism, both abortion and contraception were illegal. The orphanages were horrendous things that led to a whole generation of abused and disabled children. So yes, if we are against abortion we do need to think ahead to the natural result of that and implement policies that are going to reflect a wider culture of respect for life and the dignity of the person, or else we’re not going to effect real change.
Yo Latin/traditional Liturgy loving Catholic here who is pro-family-centered-social-policy /Consistent Life Ethic AF. I might be conservative religiously but I’m quite centrist/moderate when it comes to politics.
I apologize for the late response, but I am absolutely stunned. As a former Traditionalist/SSPX, I am surprised people like you exist. Could espouse on what you mean by traditional? Because it seems to me that traditionalism is a huge causation factor in having very conservative social views. I have had traditionalists on the catholic subreddit tell me that "Consistent Life Ethic" was just a piece of propaganda lol.
So up until we moved to another area I was going to an FSSP parish. On the rare Sundays I have to work the nearest parish is Byzantine and I enjoy going there as well. (I do have some Byzantine heritage but I also like going to a parish and knowing what I’m gonna get liturgically- no ad libbing, no hand holding, no crappy My Little Pony music, etc.) We’ll be moving again soon and the parish we will be attending has Tridentine Mass every Sunday, as well as the NO but the NO is ad orientem and uses the alter rail. :) I do work a bit but opposite my husband’s schedule so that we don’t have to use daycare and I am at home with the kids probably 80% of the time. We also plan to homeschool. So that’s what I mean by traditional. I’m sure you’ve heard of Archbishop Fulton Sheen before, because he is very popular with traditional Catholics. However I bet you’ve never heard this quote from him before (emphasis mine) : He wasn’t some socialist yahoo. He was/is known and respected for his conservative views. And yet here he says it’s the State’s job to eliminate the economic burden that discourages having children, and that the social system needs to be supportive. That’s what Hungary seems to be doing here. So in my mind, the two in no way contradict each other. And I actually often try to use that quote from Archbishop Sheen to help open the door for other conservative/traditionalist Catholics. :)
Can someone explain like I'm five what the heck "seamless garment" means? I've been discussing abortion online for what seems like forever, but today is the first time I've ever heard the term.
It's a primarily Catholic term referring to the philosophy that the ethic of valuing human life should be applied to all areas of life, so that would include abortion, death penalty, euthanasia, war, health care, poverty, etc. (The actual name comes from the robe Jesus wore before he was crucified, it was said to be seamless). It's also sometimes called the consistent life ethic.
Pro-everything-that’s-related-to-one’s-life? Or does it simply mean to be anti-abortion? Or...?
More-or-less it means to be a supporter of the right to life of any innocent human being. Innocent being that they aren’t acting against someone now and have not shown a pattern of aggression against others such that they are a danger to everyone around them at all times. Right To Life being the right of every human to be secure in their physical person.  That others may not violently attack and harm you unless you have waived the “innocent” condition above. With broad strokes, that’s it.  There’s some qualifications here and there.  Some people would actually say this isn’t broad enough because it doesn’t exclude capital punishment or death in war.  I’ve never met a pro-life person who didn’t oppose euthanasia, though. Abortion, right now, kills more people than any other human activity.  It’s the single greatest threat to human life.  Once we tackle that, euthanasia will probably be next on the block, but I don’t know.  We’ll see how it goes.
I think it means that you are against legal abortion. As prochoice means that you are for legal abortion. Each can have some exceptions and still fall into it's category. For example, prolife almost always makes exception for the life of the mother and prochoice almost always makes exception for very late term abortions that are not health related.
I consider myself pro life, and my goal is to get people to recognize pre born children as just as human as already born children and treat their lives with the same weight as anyone else's. Ugly truth: it's not unacceptable to kill in any circumstance, but it's not acceptable to kill for any reason, if that makes sense. Foremost acceptable reason: self defense. Unacceptable reason: because they are an inconvenience to you. Nazis dehumanized and exterminated jews during the holocaust, but they were still humans and what they did was still wrong even though it was acceptable in their eyes. That and animal abuse are similar to it; comparing a human group of people to non human things, like seeds, boards and cancer, and easily being disposed of because culture and laws allow, and not being able to speak up for themselves. The holocaust and animal abuse are also two great examples of why people shouldn't always "mind their bussiness".
There are 2 things- pro-life and pro abundant life. Pro life is usually specific to anti abortion, whereas pro abundant life is anti Abortion Euthenasia Death penalty Suicide Etc. People are obviously usually somewhere in between.
No, being pro-life doesn't mean you get free stuff, it doesn't mean you don't have to work, it doesn't mean you're entitled to the labor of others. You have the right to life, the type of life you live is up to you. Pro-life is fairly simple: The protection of innocent unborn children, the belief in the fundamental human right to life. Being pro-life doesn't mean you have to support welfare (because whether or not welfare is the solution is up for debate) it doesn't mean you have to have specific views about the death penalty (because whether or not you have the right to life when you have killed or may kill countless others is again up for debate) or any other of the dozens of issues that have nothing to do with abortion. Much like the "pro-choice" crowd usually isn't pro-choice on guns, usually aren't pro-choice on insurance, usually aren't pro-choice on who you bake cakes for, etc. This is about abortion, discussions about how society runs, about how we treat others, etc. while tangentially related and likely affected by such views are not directly dependent on them.
As someone who supports abortion being legal, accessible, and without stigma, I pretty much view the phrase "pro-choice" as holding those views, and the phrase "pro-life" as being opposed to those views. I don't extrapolate either to anything more than that, period.  They're identifiers relating to one's position on abortion and while some people may see it as a descriptor of a more overall position encompassing various subjects, it's dangerous to extrapolate the phrase- that's when people start getting accused of being hypocrites or somesuch.
People.  Don't downvote people just because you disagree with their personal opinions. This is a legitimate comment adding to the discussion. I'm pretty sure you sealed your downvote fate by leading with "as some who supports abortion".
Thanks for that.  I didn't think my comment was anything offensive; I didn't argue that those who believe differently than me are wrong, and my suspicion is that people who oppose abortion hate being told that they MUST also hold other stances (anti-death penalty, pro-welfare, anti-gun, etc.) in order to be "legitimately pro-life", much as I dislike being told I'm not pro-choice if I don't support, say, school choice.

Hillarious. So few Pro Life Dems left that now they have to support Republicans.
When you shrink your Overton window to a pinhole...
Democrat support is irrelevent now. Their party is funded by the abortion industry and every candidate at a higher level than Dog Catcher is in Planned Parenthood's pocket (even the """pro life""" dems some on here like to talk about). The last pro life dems quite frankly just need to pack up and join the GOP.
Pro life in California LOL. Can’t even manage to get it done properly in a red state.
John Cox would be a HUGE improvement on the pro abortion Democrat establishment of California.
I seriously doubt he’d do anything, In California it’s considered a human right to kill unborn children because it’s convenient for you to do so.
He can veto pro abortion laws and make pro life executive orders.
Yeah, right. Abortion is a human right in this state.

You know, if you're going to be a villain, at least have some style.  That pink building color is hideous.  That's like Dolores Umbridge meets Auschwitz.
Hah!
This... doesn't seem like particularly pro-life or pro-choice news.  Sometimes pregnant people are more pregnant than they think and go into labor.  Glad she had a good ob/gyn immediately available.
She came in for an ultrasound not knowing how far along she was and gave birth. She didn’t come in for an abortion.

Disclosure, I did the analysis.
Interesting , why aren’t western nations looking into this as a form of sterilisation
Probably want to experiment with it first in developing nations.
We could experiment in California/s
Is this to be taken voluntarily or forced? Is this a sterilization though.  It seems that the sperm and egg still meet but by blocking the production of HcG the embryo is unable to implant in the uterine lining. Sounds more like a permanent abortifacient.
The sterilization aspect is bad enough, but they're basically looking to end another problem by attempting to kill it.  Why attempt to fix the problem of poverty when you can just keep people who are poor from reproducing? If something like this took off, I bet it would be "voluntary", but highly encouraged by all authorities and a number of NGOs, especially in those countries that want to remove their poverty problem by eliminating the poor. And calling this a "vaccine" is pretty transparent pro-abortion doublespeak based on the fact that it utilizes the immune system to attack the body's own natural functioning.
Hey!I'm really new to Reddit so I don't really know how stuff works.I was wondering what you guys would say to pro-choice advocates if you were to initiate in a debate?I'm only in middle school so try to keep the vocabulary simple. thanks :)Have a good day!
One of the most important things is to be as polite and pleasant as you can be. Odds are you won't change anyone's mind immediately, but you're much more likely to improve their impression of pro lifers. This can plant a seed in their minds to be more open and honest in dialogue in the future. So stay positive! Another thing, don't bring up religion. It just hurts your argument and makes the other person tune out and become skeptical of everything you've said. Would you like to have a mock debate to practice?
Thanks for the comment requesting politeness, I don’t think either side will acquiesce but politeness encourages genuine debate  rather than slogans
If you look on the sidebar here, there are a bunch of links under "Argumentation" that might be useful.
I'm a little confused. I can't find "argumentation."
On the right hand side of the screen when you're on the pro-life subreddit.
A line I like to start with is "What is it about you that would make it wrong for me to kill you?" Just about any answer they could give either applies to unborn babies, or applies to some other group of people we shouldn't kill.
What if they say you're a human being who has been born and is still alive?
Then you ask them why being born is so important.
My preference to continue living. It is not wrong to kill something that cannot form a conscious preference for life over death. This is why killing plants is not wrong.
What if you're in a coma?  Your brain isn't active, so you are unable to form a conscious preference for anything. Another situation, you're suicidal and about to jump off a bridge.  I see you and give you a push.  Is that murder?
Keep it simple. Just say that all human beings are equal and ought to have the same human rights. Including the right to life (the right to not be killed). And babies in utero are by biological definition human beings. A human fetus is a human being. Therefore, we can not just kill them on demand and without apology.
Don’t. They want to kill children. It’s illogical and they don’t deserve rational debate.
I disagree.  Everyone, no matter how radical or awful their viewpoint, deserves rational debate.  If their viewpoint is illogical, then it will be all the easier for you to expose it in a debate.
Everyone deserves a rational debate. Villifying people you disagree with is never a good idea.
I’m treating them as they deserve to be treated. They advocate and glorify an intrinsically evil act. There are some issues over which the other side does not deserve the same courtesy and decency one would give a person debating a less grave matter.
I understand your passion about this. But don't you think there's merit in attempting to change others' minds, especially when abortion is such a hot topic these days and potentially millions of unborn lives are at stake?
There is merit, but in my experience it doesn’t work. Also, to some extent we need to vilify the pro-choice/pro-abort side because it is the act of villains.
Not all of them glorify it. Lots of pro-choicers dislike abortion. I don't agree with their views, but I can still understand that they're not all evil cackling monsters trying to get rid of every baby on the planet. And just so you know, many of the pro-lifers on this subreddit used to be pro-choice. A lot of them changed their minds because other pro-lifers took their time to discuss it with them. If we don't talk about it, how will we ever change anything? At the end of the day, saving babies is far more important that giving people "what they deserve".
So tell me, what exactly has calling us anti-woman bigots who want to control people's bodies done for them?
It’s convinced many young people that they are right and that we aren’t worth debating. Go to any liberal college campus and tell me how many pro-choice individuals will even be willing to have a debate. Tell me what earnest debate has done for us?
Are you saying you've never seen a pro-choicer switch sides?
I’m saying the type of pro-choicer that called our side “pro-birth” and “misogynistic anti-aborts” rarely changes sides or desires genuine debate.
Right, so what is calling pro-choicers "anti-human", "pro-murder,", etc going to do for us?
Demonize them, as they deserve to be.
And what does the pro-life side gain? I mean I can see why you haven't seen a pro-choicer switch sides if you call them names during the debate. It doesn't exactly paint us as any different than what they've grown up believing.
I think that the so-called pro-choicers may not see it the same way. If u can get them to listen, tho, they might try to stop the culture of death.
I know I’ll get hated on for this, but most pro choices are stuck in their ways and can’t be convinced. We are so stubborn and polarized and triggered today that the thought of changing our views is abhorrent. It’s sad but most pro choices won’t change. So us on the pro life side just have to do what we can to stop it.
This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.

We know when a new human being begins to exists though. Biology is clear about this.
No shit. This is just an argument to help out this young whipper snapper
And I'm saying that I think it's a crappy argument because you are conceding the crux of the prolife point of view. Perhaps you have had success with this lie though.
What I'm trying to say is even if myself and a pro choicer disagree, one of us has to be wrong. If I'm a wrong you have to have a child. If he/she is wrong, a child was murdered. What's worse?
I'm also personally against slavery, but I don't have the right to impose my beliefs on others. I mean, if others think blacks aren't people, who am I to impose my beliefs on them? They need a house to protect themselves from the elements and protect their body. There's no way to have a house built aside from slave labor.Forcing people to free their slaves would be oppressive of the highest order because not only are you violating their property rights since the blacks are not people (you have no right to impose your belief that a black person is human remember!) but you're violating their bodily autonomy by insisting they can't whip their propert or protect their safety by using their property to provide resources for themselves. You must really hate slave owners, you bigot. How will they provide for themselves?Having slaves work for you is easier than working yourself THEREFORE slave owners must have the right to own slaves because there is NO OTHER way to get things done without forcing the poor slave owner into back breaking labor. You want to FORCE slave owners to build houses don't you? You want to make slave owners ashamed of themselves!Besides. The slave owners are doing the slaves a favor in a lot of ways. What about the mentally deficient or disabled slaves? They wouldn't make it in the real world anyway. These slave owners are providing a way out of suffering for these slaves by giving them a roof over their head, even if the slaves aren't consulted.Like I said, I'm personally uncomfortable with slavery, but isn't it the lesser of two evils? If we ban slavery, people will still do it in back alley-underground slave rings. At least if we legalize it it can be regulated. Plus what if a slave is freed and no one wants to help him get on his feet? Isn't it better to prevent him from existing on self reliance altogether so at least he won't experience the greater evil of a life of freedom that may have struggles in it? Better to keep them in chains and a life of security than to risk a life that may have trials and tribulations.Of course, I'm not pro slavery, I'm pro choice, but you can't deny that in some cases slavery is necessary. Would the pyramids have been built without slaves? I mean, it's simple utilitarianism, guys.What if I'm not ready to be an employer, but I really really want some money? You can't expect me to abstain from work and WAIT to make money. If I want money now I should be able to own as many slaves as I want, you can't expect a 17 year old to understand the importance of a wage and wait to own a business instead of employing slaves early on. Think of the kids. And what about the poor? There's no way to avoid owning tons of slaves if you're poor. You realize how many people will be paid tiny wages if you outlaw slavery, right? You must hate poor people, you bigot.Finally, what about if someone inherits a slave against their will? Obviously the slave should be killed. It's not the employers's fault, but it definitely is the slave's fault for existing at the wrong time. The employer should not have to provide for a slave they did not want, and the slave can not survive on its own without 9 months of intensive schooling paid for and provided by the employer. Why must the employer basically give his life for 9 months for someone they didn't want that isn't even human? It's just easier to kill him.In fact, in light of all this, if you even suggest that black people are actually human you must be a bigot, evidence be damned.
This is the best argument by comparison I’ve ever read. I feel like the left would scream equivocation fallacy at you, though it is completely valid
Thank you, I put some good thought into it! Of course not ever scenario matches up 100% but it never will in a comparison of different things. Of course you know this, but for others reading: I'm not saying abortion is the same as slavery, I'm saying the logic used to justify abortion can be used to justify abortion. I already got a comment from someone who did not understand this.
Arguably, the murder of the most innocent is more horrendous than owning other people, but picking which social atrocity is worse on this scale isn’t really meaningful since both are so awful
Very articulate and thoughtful. I agree
Haha, I was all set to come in guns blazing and set you straight. Well played.
Thank you! I just wish pro choicers/the "I'm personally against abortion, but..." people would hear this
Same.  I literally opened up my post history in the other tab so I could grab something to start with.
Also, you can’t be really anti-slavery if you don’t also agree with me on all of my political opinions about labor. And also, forget about the slavery.
This should become a copypasta.
Thanks! I'm so sick of the "abortion is bad but banning it is worse" mentality. All abortion is bad unless the fetus is 100% going to die and you can save the mother
I was fuming until i read the entire post. Well done for for this insightful post.
Thank you :)
This man deserves to be pinned
That would bee wonderful, I want more prochoicers to see this!
More prochoicers need to see this. Good work dude!
I appreciate it! I get frustrated not being courageous enough to always defend my pro life stance IRL (just got shouted down the other day...) But I at least can lay out thought out arguments online. Problem is where I live everyone equates abortion eith women's rights
Same here. South Florida isn't very welcoming to pro-life speech. My mom wore a shirt to breakfast the other day that said "Women's rights are human rights" and I asked her "Are human rights also human rights?" She rolled her eyes.
SPICY
Good comparisons
This is just about perfect
Gold.
What’s with the high presence of complainers today?
Yeah, there's really powerful writing eqyating the abortion/euthenasia issue with the Dred Scott case. It's really a civil rights issue.
Of course, in the US, slaves were always persons under the law.  Not so for the unborn.  That’s where your analogy breaks down.
Oh, slaves were systematically treated like non-persons but weren’t specifically called non-persons. Great point! Now the analogy like totally crumbles and stuff!
It crumbles and stuff because the moral outrage against slavery was grounded in the fact that slaves were persons, and as persons, they were owed citizenship rights.  The same cannot be said for the unborn. A second aspect where OP’s analogy falters is in its opening sentence - “I’m personally against slavery, but I don’t have the right to impose my belief on others.”  Unfortunately, OP’s argument does not drill down on the implications of those impositions.  OP ignores the stark differences between the impositions of the beliefs held by abolitionists and abortion opponents.  While abolitionists sought to deprive slave owners of their property rights (NOT their bodily autonomy rights, as OP later argues), abortion opponents seek to deprive women of their right to privacy as it applies to their bodies.  As a fundamental right, the right to privacy occupies a place in the highest echelon of rights.  The denial of a fundamental right must satisfy the most stringent tests before being constitutional.  In contrast, property rights are a much “lesser” right, and are relatively easy to take away.  For example, under the power of eminent domain, the government can take your property from you (with just compensation), even if you’ve done nothing wrong.  OP’s analogy falters because OP improperly put these two rights on the same playing field. Edits - “you” to “OP”
All you've done is show that you're ok with some humans being persons and some not, proving OPs point. Slaves were not legally persons until they eventually became partial persons. That's what happens when you pick and choose which human beings are persons.
It’s not a matter of me being “OK” with anything.  The unborn are not and never have been persons.  Slaves were, because they were born human beings.
False. There are countries that legally recognize the personhood of preborn children. As for morally, they always have been and always will be.
The context for my comment was the US.
You can be a person in one country but not another?
Inasmuch as “person” is a legally defined term, theoretically a person can be recognized in one country but not the other. edit
By your logic then, before laws and the legal term person no human being was an actual person. It's nonsensical. The term is meant to represent an ontological reality. The reality is not created by the term. How can you be so dense?
...an actual person “under the law.”  If you had read my comment carefully, you would have noticed that I used the phrase “under the law.”  Before laws, persons existed and were recognized as such so long as some language had a word for “person.”  My theory is that the word “person” (and its equivalents in other languages) was created to so that human civilization had a word that would refer to a post-born human being.
What do you have to back this up? When did civilizations find it necessary to create a word (an English word, at that?) to differentiate between the rights of born and unborn people. This is getting more and more arbitrary as we go.

Your theory is very unsubstantiated since historically women and children were not recognized as person nor as equal to men. Another big mistake. And although the purpose of the law is to protect basic rights, often it is used as a tool for the powerful to suppress the weak and vulnerable. As is the case with abortion.

Says you? Do you hear how it sounds to just spout arbitrary conditions with no basis in reality?
Says the US Supreme Court, says the lack of legal authority to the contrary.  In writing the Roe opinion, Justice Blackmun addressed the issue of whether a fetus is a person for purposes of the 14th amendment. Don't dismiss his reasoning before you understand it. Blackmun went directly to the Constitution and examined each instance where the term "person" was used (there's about 20 of them) and he concluded that in nearly all instances, the use of the word person was such that it only had an application "postnatally." He also noted that when asked for legal authority holding that a fetus is a person under the Fourteenth Amendment, the attorney for Wade (the appellee) couldn't cite a single judicial opinion. The significance of this can't be overstated; this means that since the enactment of the Fourteenth Amendment, there has never been any legal dispute in a published court opinion that questioned whether a fetus qualifies as a person. In other words, American civilization had long accepted the notion that "persons" do not include fetuses — without question. In contrast, the Constutition makes reference to slaves as “persons”.
Yes, because clearly the Supreme Court can spirate new realities by its pronouncements. If the Supreme Court decided that gravity goes up, then clearly we'd all fall into the sky.
But the Court didn’t do that.  It looked to past to determine the historical reality of personhood.  Didn’t you read what I wrote?
Yes, you do make some reference to past legalisms, such as the U.S. constitution, but all legalisms are subject to the same critique. I could not care less what the U.S. constitution (or any constitution) has to say about personhood, because it is not within their power to determine what it is to be a person, any more than it is within their power to determine the laws of physics.

Wait.  So they decided that an unborn human historically wasn't a person because no-one had ever specifically talked about their rights before? You've also made an incorrect equality; > there has never been any legal dispute does not equate to > accepted the notion Because as you said, they examined the Constitution and it did't cover unborn humans.
It was because there was no legal authority in support of prenatal personhood and the use of “person” in the Constitution was such that it applied postnatally. I inferred acceptance from the undisputed notion that persons exclude the unborn.
Lack of inclusion doesn't imply exclusion.  So in this context there is no notion that 'persons exclude the unborn'.  Because there is no such notion there has been no chance to dispute it.  I believe that's what's happening across society now.  It would be a fallacy to assume that because something has never been discussed that your own opinion is accepted.

3/5ths of a person at least.
Can you turn this into a sentence?
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three-Fifths_Compromise
That’s a hyperlink, not a sentence. What point are you trying to make about the 3/5 compromise?

I'm not interested in forcing anyone to give birth, in fact I'm quite against it. I'm just against allowing anyone to murder anyone else.
If you walk into a restaurant, order a steak, eat said steak, then I would suggest that you should be forced to pay for that steak. I don't think people should be forced to pay for steak randomly, but if they've put themselves in a position where not paying for steak would be irresponsible, I'm of the opinion that they should be encouraged to do the right thing and pay for that steak.

A baby in the womb isn't "using your organs." They're receiving the nutrients they need from their mom who brought them into this world. All we ask is that you continue feeding your child until someone else can feed them. It's the same we ask of mothers who have infants that they don't want. Fine. Just keep them alive until someone else can take over.
Less than 1% of abortion is because of rape.  How is your fetus using your organs against your will when you willfully engaged in the act of creating the fetus?
This argument is the very definition of contrived.
By your logic a born baby is subject to termination, being reliant on its mother’s breasts.
97% of the people "using other people's organs" were doing with the organ owner's knowledge and permission if not consent. A negligible amount of fetuses are aborted due to rape. If you don't want someone temporarily surviving in your body, don't have unprotected sex. The baby didn't ask to be concieved but you did ask for that sex.
what do you mean by “permission if not consent”?
The woman may not have directly consented to having a child, but she had consenual unprotected sex fully knowing that comes with the possibility of pregnancy. If I pour all of my dog food on the floor and leave the house, I'm not consenting to my dog eating it all, but I am giving him permission by allowing it to happen and not trying to stop it.
To whom does the woman give permission, or with whom does the woman consent?
She is in practice consenting to being pregnant by knowing what leads to being pregnant, taking part in it consensually, and accepting the consequences. It's not a very hard concept to grasp but you seem to be purposefully misunderstanding.
Well what I understand is that consent is a type of agreement, and in order to have an agreement, you need someone else with whom to agree.  I’m trying to understand who is entering into the agreement to consent with the woman. Once again, with whom is she consenting?
Okay, you're being purposefully dense.
No I’m not.  Consent compliance in or approval of what is done or proposed by another agreement as to action or opinion With whom does the woman consent?
By your logic literally no woman consents to be pregnant. No one is this stupid to play the semantics game this hard. Enjoy this last reply


Rights are individual.  You can have the right to masturbate, but you don't have the right to sex.  How are you going to exercise your right if you can't find a partner who's willing to have sex?
Take a good look everyone, this is the fruit of the Sexual Revolution. Sex as a right, even if other people must die to get it.
I believe crops are a right. You should be able to have food even if it means some people get enslaved. Obviously not, but see how it goes both ways, just like OP was saying?
Spot on analogy, A+.
Crops can be owned by other people. Your body is owned by you. Nobody can live it in it if you don’t want them to.
It seems so simple when you say it like that, but the reason we've never made laws against occupying someone else's body is that it's how literally every human ever has come into existence. How can you say that the stage of dependence on a mother negates someone's humanity when all humans have come into the world in exactly the same way?
If sex is a right then I should be able to rape my classmate. Sure, she has to deal with the psychological trauma of rape, but sex is my right and I should be able to have it with her even if her psyche is destroyed.

Literally no one is arguing consenual sex isn't a right. Fighting windmills is hard, I know.
Guess every donor has a right to kill the patient who received their organ. Logic is not your forte is it? And conjoined twins can kill each other at will. And any mother who is in the process of breastfeeding. And any parent who is holding their child (arms are an organ after all). The list goes on.

Please leave.
wut
Based on the neighborhoods Planned Parenthood forces their clinics into, I’m not sure if you are being serious. Even our Latino neighborhoods, when we show up less than whites. Way to press on with the Sanger legacy.

Love it! I’m liberal myself in all other categories, and I’m always happy to see other pro life liberals.
Not a fan of the Q-slur, but I love this regardless. Way too many people seem to be of the opinion that being gay and being pro-life are mutually exclusive and I've never understood why. Those two issues have almost nothing to do with each other at face value. If anything, I'd expect there to be more GBT pro-lifers and liberals in general, since allowing everyone equal opportunities and opposing discrimination is about basic human rights and not condoning murder is also about basic human rights. The two should go hand-in-hand, not contradict one another.
I think the reason they're seen as mutually exclusive is because social conservatives have lumped "pro–life" and "anti–LGBT" together. As a result, a lot of pro–life organizations are also very anti–LGBT. For example, LifeSiteNews, Campaign Life Coalition, Focus on the Family, even the Roman Catholic church.

its the exact same amount of depraved as aborting any other kind of baby, but yeah


I thought it was funny how Thanos still had "plans" after he killed half the people in the universe, like there was no possibility he might have been counted amonst the 50% the didn't survive. Either Dr. Strange or Tony Stark asks him what he will do after the culling and Thanos says something like "relax and receive the admiration of a thankful universe" instead of "I'll decide then, if I am one of the survivors." Strange how Authoritarians thinks they should be the sole deciders of life and death over others but not subject themselves to the same "justice" they dish out. To be fair though I'm not sure if he was just killing "already born" people or counting fetuses among the "living". It would be super akward if he disintegrated a pregnant woman and there was just her unborn fetus left writhing in her ashes on the ground.
Killing half the universe is likely to cause a lot of collateral damage, so I doubt he'd care much about all the fetuses that would go splat on the ground.
The sad thing is, watching that movie, I realized how many people would actually be very sympathetic to Thanos' motivations.
Thanos's reality is also a dystopian one. While dystopia is definitely what Iceland is heading towards, it's unnecessary toxic to call all pro-choicers heralders of the death-cult of the future. However true it may be.
Uh oh. I don't think this is the best thing to convince pro-choicers. (although it might still convince people on the fence.) That being said I was talking to someone and they literally used the same reason (overpopulation) as thanos for justifying killing. When talking to this person i tried to remain calm and said to them "we wouldn't use this as a justification to kill newborns so therefore why would we use it for the unborn. This logic would only work if there is some significant difference between them." I then continued on from there.
Honestly, even Utilitarians aren't sure of abortion. Peter Singer is in favor of it, but there's other Utilitarians who believe that Abortion is dubious at best.
Comparing pro-choicers to fictional villains isn't exactly a convincing argument.
This article isn’t written to convince pro-choice people. It’s written to help pro-life people think about utilitarianism and Captain America’s lame response to it.
So it's meant to affirm everything the reader already believes. Gotcha.
It’s meant to help pro-life people to think more clearly about utilitarianism vs deontological ethics, and how that relates to the abortion debate. Our team has heard the pro-choice argument explained in the article literally hundreds of times. It was written by someone with a philosophy degree. If you seriously believe you have nothing to learn from other pro-life thinkers, then you’re not our audience, and that’s fine, but strawmanning the nature of the piece as merely something meant to affirm pro-lifers is really lame.
I'm not even talking about "teams" or whatever here, I just think that, if you're going to express an opinion, it's really dumb to use the guise of a fictional comic book villain's views to propagate literally any viewpoint. If a pro-choicer did the same thing, I would call them out on it. I'm not interested in your political tribalism or playing it like it's a team game. For the record, I do believe there is something to be gained from hearing viewpoints I might not necessarily agree with - I just don't believe that this is a good one. Quit assuming my position when you haven't the faintest idea.

I actually clicked through and read the original material because I tend to sometimes be skeptical of how medical materials are portrayed by the media.  But, I have to admit, it was a chilling read. It's all wrapped up in a nice bow.  Perfectly valid discussions about overcoming shame and answering questions with facts. Lots of focus on, "abortion isn't rare, it is common, so you shouldn't feel marginalized."  It's advice I might give someone if they wanted to go get an STD test. I think the perversion of the medical field is probably what bothers me most about abortion providers.  It all sounds the same as if they were actually trying to cure you of something, instead of killing someone. "Explore what this conflict means for them and what is getting in the way of their feeling like a good person." In other words, you don't need to actually be a good person, you just have to be able to feel like one.


The Babylon Bee is the best.
But he assaulted real people. Fetuses aren't real people. Duh. /s
If only biology agreed with you.
lol biology tells us fetuses are complete human organisms. Biology doesn't agree with anyone. It just is. Fetuses are humans, all humans are persons. kthx
You just said the opposite though
You didn't catch the sarcasm.
Is a human that was born without a brain a person? Is human DNA all that's required for personhood?
Yes. As long they are an individual human organism, they should be considered a person.
How do you define "human organism"? Is it DNA?
An organism that belongs to the species Homo Sapien. Aka human beings.
And how can you tell an organism belongs to the species homo sapien?
Is that a real question? When two human parents produce an offspring, that offspring will be human.
If look far enough back one of your ancestors will not be a homo sapien.

If Planned Parenthood is so bad, why don't the republicans just defund it? They won the election afterall. What's stopping them?
Because republican doesn't automatically equal pro-life. They don't care about it any further than its useful to get elected.
This this this this this this this. I’m as prolife as they come, but I’m so fed up with the Republican Party doing nothing about it that I’m starting to affiliate myself with Democrats for Life, etc. (Not that the party really could do much; it would take another Supreme Court decision, I think, and as we saw in Roe v. Wade, justices don’t vote along party lines.)
I'd say don't be part of any party. Also here is the thing I worry about. I think if the GOP does get rid of it, they won't do anything to stop illegal abortions or fund crisis pregnancy centers or any of the like. It will be like prohibition where the federal government didn't put the money up to enforce it and states didn't either, or just thought it was a crap law (which prohibition was btw.) I hope this doesn't happen,but I wouldn't be surprised if it happens where we just have secret clinics on every street or parents sending their promiscuous daughters away on "vacation" for a bit. If we are going to do things truly in the pro life way, we have to change the culture. Otherwise its just a law, and people will only follow it if they find it to be a good law. Otherwise it will just be ignored.
My thoughts exactly. We have to change the culture. To be logically consistent, we also have to care about the child after he or she is born, as he or she gets older, and (gasp) when he or she is thinking about sex and wants to prevent pregnancy. And we have to put our money where our mouth is. Maybe so many people wouldn’t choose to end their pregnancies if they had more support for pregnancy, childbirth, and child rearing.
Literally only a strong pro birth control culture does enough to stop abortion. That's it. Accessible, cheap, insurance-covered birth control. It's made the abortion rate plunge these last few years, as well as the teen pregnancy rate. If the pro life side REALLY wanted to "save babies" they would use the most efficient methods to do that, which is promote birth control, not fight against laws that 65% of Americans agree with (abortion w/third trimester restrictions). But the pro lifers really don't like hearing that
This will come as a shock to many, BUT Republican politicians are far closer to their Democrat counterparts than they are to their own voters. People haven't seem to caught onto that yet...
Your username. I like it.
Why thank you
agreed. I'm sure plenty are only pro life to get the voters out. And because pro life people feel ignored, they'll lap it up. Not saying that people shouldn't vote for the pro life candidate, but realize that there may be a lot of hypocrites out there.
So true. The republican party is a joke and would rather tell you how to live your life rather than prevent the murder of innocent children.
Oh we know.  Sometimes it is the difference between voting for the person who pretends to be pro-life and the person who is completely not at all pro-life.  We hope that they will occasionally throw in some pro-life measures just to keep up the facade. Our choices are limited in this environment, although most people say that about their issues, and they're probably right as well.
Also because even the Republican party hates Trump. Although he is doing a great job.
Because then they can't use it as an issue in elections anymore.
Bingo.
Its a carrot on a stick. Please tell me if I'm getting this wrong but didn't Trump and congress fund them because he didn't want to get blamed for a government shutdown? Maybe i'm getting my info wrong. I just remember it sounded like that
They want to use it as a talking point election after election to yell about it yet do nothing about it.
Every time we’ve tried PP whines and cries and bitches and moans about how “horrible and unfair and sexist” it is and sues to delay or cancel said actions
The poor republicans getting bullied by a non-profit.
It happens. Look at the Democrats and the NRA. the main difference is that PP donates way more and tries to appeal to a lot of people's sense of gender equality
Don't mind wehavecrashed. They're clearly a leftist troll who has decided to start posting in /r/prolife to troll and disrupt the sub. Just report them and ignore them and hopefully the mods of this sub will ban them sooner than later
I’m not claiming bullying, though it is a common tactic. They fight every single possible regulation as if it’s the worst in the world and “so unfair”, yet every other health care provider and organization has no problem following these same rules (and often way more rules), and don’t run to their lawyers every single time. I don’t think it’s unreasonable to make sure that federal money isn’t misused and that they comply with existing, clearly established federal law. Their financials indicate they clearly have more than enough to comply. They just don’t want to, and I can’t recall any other instance where someone sued about reasonable rules because “I don’t wanna”
Maybe it has something to do with all the unconstitutional laws state republicans enact that get overturned.
I can understand that, such as total bans and “heartbeat” bans, which I believe they might be doing for a few reasons: Symbolic reasons: Some states have passed laws that don’t really do anything such as amending their constitutions and public policy agendas to say that the state itself doesn’t guarantee or promote a right to abortion or taxpayer funded abortion beyond what federal law already requires. The laws that haven’t made it such as outlined above may also be partly a way for the legislature to symbolize that they feel strongly about this issue and showing pro life voters their commitment (it obviously is risky to spend time and effort on bills unlikely to pass or stay in effect, especially if you represent a battleground or politically divisive area, especially an issue as politically divisive as abortion). Judicial: I think another, and perhaps the biggest reason that pro life politicians may be working so hard on these bills that keep getting struck down or blocked is because they are hoping to get it to SCOTUS and revisit the issue of Roe V Wade. Currently SCOTUS holds that individual states may not completely ban or place “undue burden” on a woman getting an abortion even if she’s a minor (though states can require parental consent or notification, they also must have a judicial bypass option available so a judge or group of judges can decide, though there isn’t always a formal hearing; every state has its own individual rules on how that works). In the event that the ruling of Roe V Wade were completely eliminated or nullified somehow, that would not mean that abortion would be 100% banned at the federal level. What that would actually do is go back to pre Roe standards that said the matter of abortion would be completely under the control of individual states. Some states have “trigger” laws that would immediately ban all or most abortions in that state in the event of this type of SCOTUS ruling, some have trigger laws immediately guaranteeing a right to abortion in that stare, and some have no relevant law on the books, and would have to decide later on. In the pro life community and among the general public as a whole, there’s a lot of debate about the effectiveness or practicality of such actions. This debate is often argued by the other side too as bad because I believe some of them are concerned it could be effective in the future. Now I’m only speaking my opinion on this in terms of whether it’s effective and the good and bad it can do for the pro life movement, though I will admit that as someone who considers herself strongly pro life, I may come off as somewhat biased (though I am trying not to be in my explanation of my opinion and insights on this particular matter). While I believe that abortion is morally wrong in most, if not all, circumstances (if you’d like to discuss this further with me, such as my thoughts on “hard cases”, the moral implications of abortion etc, feel free but I’d ask you focus on the original point of this first which is the passing of laws that are being blocked/struck down), I am not sure that these types of laws are effective right now for a few reasons: Because they keep getting blocked/struck down, it gives the other side ammunition against us. It gives them more examples to point out “Look at them wasting time and money on these laws not even holding up in court”, so they can paint pro life legislators as stupid, or that they have unpopular views. Also while we are getting more pro life judges on the bench the SCOTUS is split basically down the middle, and there are still many other federal court vacancies. Moreover many federal judges on the bench in key appeals court circuits are not too supportive of the pro life cause. So I don’t see a favorable revisiting of the issue just yet. It would probably take at least one (if not two or more) of the more left leaning justices on SCOTUS retiring or passing on and solidly pro life justices taking their place (and maybe a bunch more pro life judges in the lower appeals courts filling vacancies, particularly for cases SCOTUS will not hear). I’d say that provided republicans keep a majority (or it gets bigger ideally) or the democrats don’t get too big of a lead, and if trump gets re-elected (or another republican wins in 2020) this could change by 2024, especially since several left leaning justices are quite old (Ginsburg is 84 and has had cancer multiple times; Kennedy is a known moderate and is nearly 80; Breyer is 79; though some of the right leaning justices are also in that age range). But lots of hypotheticals are required so that’s why I personally am not confident that a favorable ruling will happen until then
It's  cozy around here.




What's wrong with being anti abortion? Abortion is bad, so I am opposed to it.
Nothing is wrong with being anti-abortion, however the purpose of the song and story was to celebrate life of the preborn. Instead news out let’s want to create a negative connotation.
Media is intentionally trying to frame pro-lifers in a negative way.

“Imagine my shock!” - Paul J. Watson Honestly if they even cared about children in general they should prove to us that their coffee is fair trade and support medical pregnancy centers such as Stanton Healthcare.
Yep.
How is it racism if the black people choose to get an abortion?
I think it's because there's a large element of lack of choice, due to the lack of support and cycle of poverty many black people are in. But even if you don't buy that, supporting abortion inherently supports a disproportionate number of black Americans dying regardless of whether it's a free choice or not.
So if every race was equally likely to get an abortion it wouldn't be racist. If we know that black people are more likely to kill each other with guns, would it be racist to support the second amendment?
Yeah, I think that's basically the idea.
Does Starbucks still have the policy of not kicking people out? Might be a good place to do some pro-life activism. We can pressure them to stop funding Planned Profithood while at the same time handing out pro-life educational materials (sonograms, plastic fetal models).
In my class, we are doing a debate on abortion. My teacher chooses the debaters. I have no choice but to argue for the pro abortion side. Obviously, I’m a bit disappointed knowing that I may have to use pro choice arguments that I don’t agree with. The other side may have gotten lucky, but I still don’t want to look like a fool during the debate. What do you think is the best pro abortion argument you’ve heard?
I did debate on college. On a topic like this I'd go to the extreme: Argue that someone does not achieve personhood until their first rational thought, and contend that abortion ought to be legal up to two years post-birth. Your teacher wants to test your ability to present argument, so go for the most difficult argument to present. Edit: Be sure to throw in some humor. A well-placed joke goes a long way in a debate.
Wow, that's pretty extreme. I don't know if I would have the audacity to tackle defending such a position. I would mostly receive questions from the opposing side like: "So you think it's okay to kill a toddler?" Which I wouldn't know how to defend. I don't think my classmates are mature enough to handle a topic like this.
Its actually one of the only logical defenses for abortion, hence why the semi-famous bioethicist Peter Singer has advocated for a similar position.  Of course its completely abhorrent to anyone with a grain of morality, which is why its a great example to use.  You can win the debate, without winning anyone to the pro-abortion side. https://www.washingtonpost.com/archive/opinions/1999/09/11/a-professor-who-argues-for-infanticide/cce7dc81-3775-4ef6-bfea-74cd795fc43f/?utm_term=.df60daa94a33
You might get some inspiration after reading this book.
A Modest Proposal A Modest Proposal For preventing the Children of Poor People From being a Burthen to Their Parents or Country, and For making them Beneficial to the Publick, commonly referred to as A Modest Proposal, is a Juvenalian satirical essay written and published anonymously by Jonathan Swift in 1729. The essay suggests that the impoverished Irish might ease their economic troubles by selling their children as food for rich gentlemen and ladies. This satirical hyperbole mocked heartless attitudes towards the poor, as well as British policy toward the Irish in general. The primary target of Swift's satire was the rationalism of modern economics, and the growth of rationalistic modes of thinking in modern life at the expense of more traditional human values. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
why stop at two years post birth?  OP should really test his/her ability to present an argument and argue for the legality of abortion 50 years post birth.
When in doubt, ANTI SCIENCE.
Those making these arguments are careful to distinguish between being living and human but still lacking personhood. Science declares when something is human and when something is living. It does not declare personhood. That's the realm of political philosophy. A brief survey of the topic can be found on Wikipedia.
Take this as an opportunity to learn all you can about "pro-choice" so you can later use the information to defend your faith and perspective. The "best" arguments depend on what exactly the topic is. Should abortion be legal? Is abortion moral? What's the question that needs addressing?
Interesting. If my opponents don't get too deep into it and present basic moral arguments I may have a chance, though I don't think they will. I believe the question is just about if abortion should or should not be legal.
As another user pointed out, your teacher is probably just testing your ability to present an argument, so choose an extremist position. If I were you, I’d covertly frame my argument in a way that exposes the moral absurdity of pro-choice arguments but still make it seem like I’m sincerely trying to argue for abortion. For example, I would would approach this like philosopher Peter Singer (who is pro-choice and pro-infanticide) to argue that there’s no morally relevant difference between newborn babies and unborn babies, maybe excerpt some passages from him as well. Then from there argue that rational thought or self-awareness should confer personhood so therefore abortion should be permissible (but openly and directly hint towards infanticide being permissible as well under this view). But then afterwards I’d make it clear to the class that I’m not pro-choice.
I can see your point, but I don't think I'm surrounded by people bright enough to get the irony. It would just lead to an onslaught of angry and personal insults directed at me. I fear even my teacher would stop me at that point. He's never hesitant to point something out and argue with the students.
Yeah, exactly. Say “if we place personhood at any other point, it’s completely arbitrary.” And then argue why every other starting point makes no sense. The other side might “win,” but you’ll have presented a good argument and also shown the absurdity of the pro-choicers.
My initial response is to say that you're morally obliged to refuse to argue for such a morally-reprehensible position, even in an academic debate. But if I were actually in that position, I'd be asking my parish priest for advice.
You can't do that in a school setting. It's an important part of debating to be able to defend something you don't believe in.
Yeah, I'm guessing that's what my teacher would say. I would be totally ready to defend the prolife side, but looking for evidence to defend something I don't believe in just feels like I'm trying to go back on my moral beliefs.
You strengthen your own beliefs by critically analyzing the other side of the argument. Not by ignoring it.
Yes. Even the Vatican used a Devil's Advocate! Just treat this as an opportunity to learn the opposing side as well as you can and allow that to shape and strengthen your views. If you never dare to question aspects of the faith, you'll rarely ever grow in them.
That abortions will still happen if outlawed. (I am pro choice if the baby could never survive outside the womb, but that accounts for such a small number of abortions...)
Ah, yes, I've read an article on that. (Yeah, that's also part of my dilemma, there are few situations in which I would perhaps be pro choice).
It might be worth posting this on the prochoice sub

A little tangential but worthy of discussion.
Can you explain the connection to me? I'm afraid I'm being a bit dense at the current moment because I don't get it.
The bill is written so that women who want to be disconnected from life support won't be while pregnant and their unborn children can presumably be brought to term.
Ah I gotcha.




So having human DNA doesn't make you human untill you are out of the womb? Seems like they need to take an intro biology course.
Where in the article does it say that the unborn are not human?
Hey, Spiwolf7, just a quick heads-up:untill is actually spelled until. You can remember it by one l at the end.Have a nice day! The parent commenter can reply with 'delete' to delete this comment.
What if I remember it wrong.

Gee, I wonder if the unborn will be safe too /s
Gotta make sure these people don’t feel guilty when they take their own child’s life. God forbid they have second thoughts about allowing a helpless life to continue to exist.





Before I begin my argument, I must preface this by giving the generally accepted definition of the idea of bodily autonomy:Generally speaking, bodily autonomy is defined as the right to self governance over one's own body without external influence or coercion.It can also be defined as saying:Bodily autonomy is defined as: “a person having control over whom or what uses their body, for what, and for how long.”So, the general idea is that the person is the sovereign over their body. And that is where I find fault with that argument. For instance, cells within your body can abnormally grow without your consent or even your knowledge and give you cancer. There are autonomous forces within your body that are out of your control; and that you are clearly not the sovereign of.The only control that we as humans have over our bodies is the amount of control that our bodies allow us to have; it is a limited form of autonomy, sure, but by no means does it qualify as sovereignty; you do not have the supreme authority; how could you have power over something if the amount of power that you have is dictated by that very something that you presumably have control over? It doesn't make much sense to me.There's plenty of conditions, illnesses, diseases, disabilities etc that we have, and that we have no control over; and in some cases, to such an extent that our ailments become the sovereign over us and control our lives and autonomy.I think this is a pretty good example of the psychological illusion of control and our ability to overestimate how much control we really have over things; even in cases such as obtaining an abortion, there are a wealth of potential pre-existing factors (such as depression, partner leaving you, financial instability etc) that are out of your control but have driven you to obtain an abortion. It seems to be quite ironic that the more control over something we think we have, the less control over that very something we actually have.I think ultimately our bodies are the sovereign over us; and that they are too autonomous and independent for humans to confidently claim sovereignty over. The way I like to see it is that we are merely a guest in their house, and they have the power to lock us out of any room that it wishes to.But I'd be interested to hear if there is any errors in my argument, inconsistencies, fallacies etc or whether there is any expansion that could be made to that argument that could better support it? Would be interesting to hear your guys' thoughts.
This is an interesting perspective but I'm not sure how it applies to the abortion argument. We have little control over the illnesses we get, but it's not immoral to do what is necessary to cure ourselves of these illnesses if possible. For example, it is not immoral to have a cancerous tumour removed. If you are arguing that bodily autonomy itself is a flawed construct that has many concerning implications. For example, could the government require that any person who is physically sound donate one of their kidneys, or parts of their liver? These are not parallels to abortion, but without bodily autonomy, why are they not permissible? Would it be absolutely immoral for you to unhook yourself from the violinist (Thomson's violinist; a defense of abortion and commonly cited essay in the bodily autonomy argument for abortion)?  Do you disagree with the courts ruling in McFall v. Shimp? Should consent be required in the treatments of patients in medical settings, or in medical or other research? Edit: You might be interested in r/Abortiondebate for discussions like this
I wasn't arguing that it was immoral to remove a cancerous tumour; what was I saying was that cancerous tumour can form and develop within our body without our knowledge or consent. Cancerous tumours have the capacity to kill you, and removing them would fall within your rights to self-defence. Also, I think the key concept here is the idea that the amount of control you have your body is determined by your own body itself. That doesn't necessarily give a mandate for the government or private individuals to violate your body; the organ donation argument is kinda flawed because all it really proves is the government shouldn't forcibly impregnate someone. The violinist argument is also flawed; because unhooking yourself would cause that person to die of natural causes and would be an act of passive resistance (still morally shitty thing to do), but which is again different from actively killing the child in the womb, which is an act of force. But I do agree with the McFall vs Shimp ruling, no-one should be forced to donate their body parts against their will, but personally, I don't see how that is necessarily applicable to the argument that I originally made. The original argument I made in general was focusing on our relationship with our body, I think this is somewhat separate between the relationship between ourselves and the government or ourselves and private individuals (i.e doctors etc).
How does this compare to taking progesterone-blockers (which can deny the fetus a habitable environment) or choosing not to eat foods that provide it enough nutrients to continue living? (I'm asking because while surgical abortion does seem more akin to murder to me, progesterone blockers etc. seem more akin to removing from life support)
I think it depends on the intent; if your intent for refusing to provide nutrients for the fetus to continue living or to take progesterone-blockers is to ultimately kill the fetus, then that would probably be classified as murder. Progesterone blockers are actually used in medical abortions; and I'm not particularly sure what legal status exists for intentionally starving someone to death; or what the punishment for that is; that probably depends on what jurisdiction you're in; I would imagine that intentionally starving a living human to death would count as a form of murder; but I suppose that depends on what laws are in place.
I wasn't trying to use these arguments in relation to abortion, I was just trying to get a clearer understanding of how your rejection of bodily autonomy fits in with how it is enshrined in society. I suppose what I'm trying to understand is how this relates to the abortion debate. In most bodily autonomy based arguments for abortion, the body is placed in relation to another individual (the foetus). If you deny bodily autonomy outright, this is an easy solution to those arguments but has implications in other scenarios.
I guess it relates to the abortion debate in the sense that it is more of a criticism of the underlying principle of bodily autonomy; in that, we are portrayed as having sovereignty over our body. When, in fact, there are autonomous forces there that we have ultimately no control over. I think if bodily autonomy was defined to mean, for example, the right to make ethical decisions regarding your body (which some people do define it to be), then I would have no real issue with it. But it instead seems to assert one's sovereignty over their body, which I think in a natural sense, is a flawed principle. I wouldn't state that it is an outright denial of the idea of bodily autonomy; just that particular definition of bodily autonomy. We have the right to make choices regarding ourselves and our bodies within the limitations that we have, and each individual has their own limitations. What the sovereignty argument seems to state is that we define our own limitations, which I don't find to have a practical basis at all, in fact almost contradictory. So, I guess as a concession, I would be particularly focusing on the idea of bodily sovereignty, which links into the abortion debate because I have heard insinuations or even direct statements from the pro-choice movement quite often which seems to state control over one's body, as if we are the sovereign.
I'd have to agree with the assessment of that argument as being something like sovereignty, which lends itself to a comparison of how we'd treat countries that acted in a similar manner to those using bodily autonomy as a reason to permit abortion. If we use the fanciful example of someone who was kidnapped, put aboard a plane which was overflying North Korea and then dropped into NK with a parachute, you have a similar situation. NK is a sovereign country with a right to do what it wishes within its own borders.  If you drop someone into NK, even someone kidnapped and forced to enter NK, the NK government can simply execute that kidnapping victim for being in their borders, and the theory goes that there is nothing anyone else can do about it. Nevertheless, this doesn't stop anyone from being angry at our theoretical North Koreans for doing such a thing.  We'd levy sanctions on them... well, even more sanctions anyway... and generally consider their government to be evil.  We'd also work to make that sort of treatment illegal in international law and do our best to force NK to comply with that standard. The reason we wouldn't just shrug and say it "isn't our problem" is because we do believe that innocent people shouldn't just be executed or killed to buttress some country or person's idea of personal sovereignty. We should and do take personal sovereignty and bodily autonomy seriously.  I consider it a key right that humans should have. However, it is subordinate to the right to life of a person who may unwittingly and innocently transgress on that autonomy, such as a child who had no possible choice in which uterus they ended up within.  As long as the impact on the country or the person is not fatal we should always be looking for a way to ensure that both sides can be given equally balanced rights.
I don't think sovereignty ever assumed direct control over every aspect of something. More like, of the decisions that get made about my body, I am the only one who gets to make them. Like I own my house, I am the soveriegn of my house, the fact that a tree can fall on it doesn't really change that.
Well, firstly, the government already can tell you what you and can't do with your body. This is why in a lot of countries there are mandatory vaccination laws. There is already a precedent that means that the good of public health overrides your bodily autonomy. I don't see how this is any different here; your individual rights cease where they begin to infringe on the rights of other individuals (i.e the foetus). You can own your house, sure, it is your property, but that does not necessarily mean that if someone sets one foot on your property, you have the automatic right to shoot and kill them unless there was a clear and present danger to your life. Sovereignty ultimately means "supreme power or authority." The sovereignty of a nation lies within its ability to control its own borders without difficulty; I do not believe that we have the same sovereignty over our bodies, because we cannot sufficiently claim to have the final say over our bodies; when it is often documented that our bodies can have the final say over us. The very fact that our body has the mere potential to exercise that power over us would suggest that bodily sovereignty as a concept falls flat, at least in my opinion.
It's taking a term that originally applied to nations and states  and applying it to someones body. I don't think points Ing out the slight inconsistencies really does much. When people talk about bodily autonomy they mean that they control and not another person. Some other country can't tell the US what policies to have, some other person can't tell me how to arrange my furniture, and some other person cannot tell me how to deal with things inside my own body. It is an understood argument, the fact that the word could mean something different doesn't really matter because it has a meaning in this context and it is fairly well understood.
I definitely doubt that it is the slightest inconsistencies; sovereignty is also a more nuanced way of saying control or authority, a better synonym. My whole argument was based on the question of how could you have control over something if that very something you supposedly have control over was the arbiter of how much control you could have over it? It doesn't seem to make much sense; I don't think that can just be dismissed as a slight inconsistency. Well, actually, the US is obliged to a certain extent by international law; it's signed up to multiple different accords, treaties and conventions which effectively prohibit it from using laws that the international community have deemed unfair, unjust etc. Also, my original post was not making any justification for another person to tell you what you can and can't do with your own body; what my argument was stating is that the amount of control that we believe we have over our bodies is over-estimated, and that our bodies to a large extent have control over us. It is fairly understood; it is understood to mean that a person supposedly has control/sovereignty over their body, and what uses their body, and my point was that from a natural sense, we don't have that power or control.
I don't think it was ever meant to refer to a natural sense. I think it was always meant in a legalistic way. I don't the argument is that we naturally have control over our body it should be reflected legally, I think it's just that we should have control over our body in a legal sense.
Of course, from a legal sense, the government should have in place the bare minimum restrictions on what you can and cannot do with your body, with the only notable restriction being, of course, infringing on the rights of others. But the natural sense seems to dictate that we don't have control over our bodies; I don't think the government should restrict you from attempting to claim sovereignty over your body so long as you're not hurting anyone in the process; but ultimately, you don't have control over your body from a natural point of view. The bodily autonomy/sovereignty argument extends far from a legal sense, it does enter a moral argument, particularly regarding the organ donation and violinist arguments, and probably even to a natural dimension to some extent as well. The reasoning that the pro-choice movement has for having bodily autonomy and sovereignty enshrined in a legal sense is rooted in a pretty moral argument.

Governments govern.  Bodily autonomy refers to the extent governments should or should not do so.
It refers to external influence; government is one facet of that, but that can also apply to private individuals as well. And bodily autonomy as a legal term is based and rooted on a moral/philosophical justification; for instance, looking at one of the definitions I provided, it stated that bodily autonomy means the right to decide whom or what uses their body; when in practical terms, you don't have control over what uses your body, or what exists within your body, particularly if you take into account the context that we probably aren't even aware of the majority of autonomous forces that exist within our bodies.
You refer to “conditions, illnesses, disabilities, diseases, etc.” as forces that “control our ... autonomy.”  But you also just said that bodily autonomy pertains to “external influence.”  Conditions, illnesses, disabilities, disease, however, are very much internal, and thus irrelevant to bodily autonomy (at the very least).
Yes, they're internal, but the idea of bodily autonomy/sovereignty seems to be multi-faceted; on one hand, yes, they refer to being free from external influence, but on the other hand it seems to insinuate that we can govern our own body as if we are the sovereign, which we're not. The idea of bodily autonomy quite dogmatically states that we should have control over our own bodies; when quite clearly, we do not because we don't have control over the internal influences within our bodies. It seems to be much more than just being hostile to government restrictions, it seems to be stating something which is much greater than that; the idea that we have somehow control over what happens to our bodies, when we do not.
Cite a source for this
The sources I stated in my original post. "Generally speaking, bodily autonomy is defined as the right to self governance over one's own body..." "Bodily autonomy is defined as: “a person having control over whom or what uses their body, for what, and for how long.” Also: "The principle of bodily integrity sums up the right of each human being, including children, to autonomy and self-determination over their own body." Or: "This example relates to the concept of body autonomy, the idea that everyone has the final say or jurisdiction over their bodies." (Source: https://medium.com/@sjeancappy/why-body-autonomy-is-the-future-of-feminism-2a7da8bc3370)
Only the first and fourth of these are mentioned in your source. In discussing bodily autonomy, the article discusses the examples of touching, restrictions on abortion, sex, female genital mutilation, and sex trafficking.  All of these involve the acts of another person or entity external to the woman. That bodily autonomy might imply “the idea that we have somehow control over what happens to our bodies,” is too general an inference for this article, inasmuch as you construe “control” to also mean the effects of “conditions, illnesses, disabilities, diseases, etc.”  The article does not discuss any of those things.
Yeah, I'm aware the article does state all of those particular issues; but the term bodily autonomy definitely does imply that we have control over our bodies, I don't see that to be too general of an inference. Self-determination, jurisdiction, and autonomy are all synonyms in one form or another of the word "control" or of "sovereignty". And also, the idea of bodily autonomy may be grounded in a desire to be opposed to restrictions imposed by the government or from other external forces; but the reason for such opposition stems from this concept that we are the sovereign over our own bodies. This completely ignores the fact that there are internal forces within our bodies we don't have control over, which explains why the article didn't discuss any of the internal restrictions that we have. And these "internal forces" are only really internal in location, they're very much external forces in the sense that they do not fall within our sphere of autonomy. These forces are independent and sovereign in their own right.
Well your own source doesn’t support a meaning of “control” that supports your argument.  If you prefer a more expansive meaning of “control” that encompasses “conditions, illnesses, disabilities, diseases, etc.” you are entitled to your opinion, but this leaves your argument without external support.  Your argument just becomes your opinion. My argument is that whether the forces are internal or external is determinative of whether they implicate bodily autonomy.  Now you’re just going to redefine “internal forces” as “external forces” so that you can reach the conclusion you want?  Absolutely not - not only is your argument circular, but you can’t make an argument by redefining terms on a whim.
I struggle to understand where you're coming from here. Control is defined as being is the power to influence; conditions, illnesses, disabilities, diseases all have the power to influence; therefore control; they have the power to control and restrict your sovereignty. I don't see how that reduces my argument to just an opinion. That's not me redefining the terms to achieve the conclusion that I want to achieve; you seemed to be designating the forces as being internal due to their location, which is perfectly fair. But internal forces can also mean forces within your control and within your sphere of influence. Neither mine nor your definitions are wrong; we just seem to have a different interpretation of what we're each trying to get across. If a force is external, of course that can mean belonging to the outer surface, but it also means a force that is not within our control. I would argue that for example contracting a terminal illness or a disease which may be degenerative is the byproduct of an external force which is out of your control. My argument is this; the idea is that we are supposed to be the sovereign over our own body, yet the only control we can exert over our body is the control that our body allows us to exert. If that is the case, then how can we confidently claim sovereignty over our body? How can we be sovereign yet dependent at the same time?


I'm glad somebody finally called them out on it! I think that if Sanger's original intentions were more well known, there would be a lot fewer people to stand behind the "Planned Parenthood empowers women" narrative.
Wow, I didn’t know they made matching donations to PP. I’m going to have to rethink whether I want to give them my business.
Here's a list of companies that give money to planned parenthood if you're interested
Fucking Ben and Jerry's. I love that shit, but I hate abortion even more.
I’m scared to look...but I know it’s important. Edit: it’s hard to avoid companies like Unilever and Monsanto, even if you actively want to. But the companies I can stop doing business with, I will.
THAT’s why we should stop supporting planned parenthood?? I’m pretty sure abortion has killed more people than racism
I think her point is that PP targets black communities and pushes abortion on them, which is why they’re racist. I get what you’re saying. When people say “Defund PP because they have poor business ethics!” I would say, “Well that’s not great, but the killing humans thing is much more important.” But it’s worth pointing out that between slavery, genocide, and racial violence, racism has killed a SH*T TON of people, almost certainly more than abortion. Like, hundreds of millions of people. Honestly I wouldn’t be that surprised if you could attribute a billion deaths (at least partially) to racism.
Yeah, Alveda King has a documentary where she gives almost that exact quote: "At least the victims of slavery have descendants who lived to tell about it."
Yeah, it's about PP targeting black communities. It's relevant today because of the recent news about Starbucks and racial issues.



The problem is that its pretty easy to dismiss the issue because the people on the other side are the right wing, who are pretty consistently wrong about everything. Churches across the west have tied abortion and homosexuality together like they were a single issue, so what do you think happens when people discover that that sexual ethic. Many people and groups against it don't even try to disguise that its a religious thing, and tied to their nonsense sexual ethics. So what happens when they make it an easy target to dismiss?
I agree that using purely religious arguments is not going to be persuasive to those who are not religious. However, there's really nothing inherently religious about the pro-life position.  Certainly, the position is reinforced for you if you do hold certain religious beliefs, but you don't have to really believe anything particularly supernatural to understand that you're killing a human being on demand. The concept is a little more abstract because frankly, you see the mother, you don't see the child.  But I liken that to not seeing genocides and killings in other countries that you will never go to.  Yes, it may never affect you in any appreciable way, but there is still a moral and ethical reason to oppose them.
But that's my point. Its not really an inherently religious thing, but most groups related to the idea made it into one on purpose. But that was self defeating, since to someone already on the other side, hearing that their entire dynamic is steeped in religion is only going to reassure those people that there isn't really a reason to listen outside of religion. When you hear people say that they know that impoverished people having access to non abortificient birth control like condoms prevents it, but that they can't support that anyways, because they consider it borderline as bad to do so for esoteric arguments that have to do with forms of ethics that haven't been considered live ethics theories in hundreds of years by ethicists they are basically just abstracting their entire paradigm away from something normal people are realistically going to listen to. To the people listening what they are hearing is that it was never about prioritizing life, but about some esoteric sexual ethic that can't be described in terms of real things, only outdated ancient greek metaphysics. It makes them heavily doubt the legitimacy of the position in general because it is being tied to a sinking ship by the proponents. The truth is that religious arguments and hardline conservative sexual ethics (distinct from moderate conservative sexual ethics) are not really going to be a thing outside of poor countries in any big way moving into the future. Being against abortion on the other hand can be. Polls show that people's opinions on it haven't really changed much in the last few decades, and if anything are slightly more against it now than they were a few decades ago. But that trend is not going to survive unless it obtains an identity completely distinct from dying ideologies.
I mean, if we look at the history of the pro-life movement, there is a considerable amount of effort and time that was put into it by the Catholic Church, which is entirely consistent with their position on life.  I'm not sure that saying that the Church made it a religious thing on purpose is really accurate, since it has the implication that they adopted someone else's position for some other reason. Now, as for the other groups, I think I can see some Evangelical groups who may have adopted the same mantle because of its political value in positioning them in opposition to leftist and "progressive" ethics.  But, even if it is extremely convenient for that purpose, it isn't alien to Christian ethics to see to protect the poor and powerless. The only solution to the problem you are perceiving is to continue to make well reasoned ethical arguments that do not resort to religious terminology or constructs to make the case.  If those people are never able to apply critical thought to separate the good from the bad from the actions of people with particular ideologies, then I'm not sure they are replacing previous ideologies with ideologies that will actually improve ethical outcomes.
Here is a non-religious argument. This explains why "personhood" is wrong in defining the right of abortion and why, if we intend to use personhood, it should be set at fertilization and not viability: Abortion rights come from due process. Due process is interpreted from the 14th Amendment. Due Process protects a right that all people share. Here, the right is bodily autonomy (another example of bodily autonomy is a right to have adult homosexual intercourse). Other due process protections are marrying someone (right to liberty) or right to educate your child in a certain way (right to raise your children). With bodily autonomy due process, there is strict scrutiny protection. This means that no law can take away the bodily autonomy unless it is necessary to a compelling governmental interest. The Court determines if the law is necessary (there are no other alternatives) and if it establishes a compelling interest (hard to establish a compelling interest, but protecting lives would be an example). With abortion, however, the Court did not go with the usual strict scrutiny under bodily autonomy, but chose a trimester approach in Roe. This meant that in the first trimester, the Court left the decision to abort completely to the woman and her physician. From approximately the end of the first trimester until fetal viability, the state's interest in protecting the health of the mother would become "compelling" and the state could regulate the abortion procedure if the regulation "reasonably relate[d] to the "preservation and protection of maternal health." At the point of viability, which the Court believed to be in the third trimester, the state's interest in "potential life" would become compelling, and the state could forbid abortion to protect "potential life" so long as it made an exception to preserve the life or health of the mother. Then the standard was changed in Planned Parenthood v. Casey into what we have now - an undue burden standard. This means that before the point of viability in a fetus, the State can't set up a law restricting abortion that would cause an undue burden to receive an abortion. They found that the State has a compelling interest in seeing to it that the abortion is performed under circumstances that insure maximum safety for the patient. However, the means have to be necessary and thus, the State can't place a substantial obstacle in the path of a woman’s choice to abort (the undue burden). What establishes an undue burden has been fought ever since this case, but my argument is not going to delve into that topic. After viability, laws can restrict abortions entirely (except in the health of a mother), because that is the point that the State has a compelling interest to protect the unborn child. The child now has a new term of "personhood" here which grants them a right to bodily autonomy from being killed. However, the court determined this arbitrary point of viability to be when the child deserves protection and is granted personhood. My argument is thus - using viability to determine personhood is bad. We need to use the precautionary principal and say that the child has rights of bodily autonomy from conception/fertilization. Now, I will start with the point that women (and men) have a fundamental right to bodily autonomy. This is beyond doubt. But the Court in Roe has said, "[i]f this suggestion of personhood is established, the appellant's case, of course, collapses, for the fetus' right to life would then be guaranteed specifically by the Amendment.” This means, if personhood is established to be at life and fertilization, then the fundamental right to life wins over woman's fundamental right to choice (their bodily autonomy to abort). So when is life? Life begins at fertilization when the zygote is created and that is not in dispute. So then, what is personhood? Since there is scientific uncertainty today over when there is personhood, the Court should handle the abortion issue differently. Back then, they came up with a magic point in time, being when the baby could survive outside the uterus on its own. There are several other arguments saying that personhood should be at a different magic point in time - heartbeat, pain, brain activity, etc. However, all of those are wrong. What should be done is when there is scientific uncertainty, like there is when determining life in terms of personhood, the Court needs to err on the side of caution. When we do not know whether the child has reached a stage where it has personhood and thus, the right to life, we need to assume that it does have personhood as this will do least damage to the child. To explain this a little more clearly, in Stenberg v. Carhart, Justice Kennedy (who was in the majority in Casey) stated that “courts must exercise caution . . . when medical uncertainty is present.” This is what is widely known as the “precautionary principal.” This states that if an action or policy has a suspected risk of causing harm to the public, environment, or in our case, life itself, then in the absence of scientific consensus, the burden of proof that it is not harmful falls on those taking an action that may or may not be a risk. Determining personhood should fall here. There is no scientific consensus of when a child has personhood (again, it could be at heartbeat, viability, pain, trimesters, etc.) and the risk is that you will terminate someone who actually does have personhood and life. So, the person arguing for a specific point (like heartbeat or viability) for personhood would need to pass the burden of proof that this would not harm someone who could have personhood. However, since personhood could be at any point going back to fertilization, the person arguing for the specific point after fertilization will never meet the burden to show it will not harm any person as there is the possibility that it will harm the person at an earlier point. Thus, the only point that meets the burden is at fertilization, when life begins. Here, it is scientifically proven that at this point, no life would be harmed as it is the very first point personhood can exist. This not only protects the life of a child by protecting it at the starting point of life, but it also promotes the best interest of the child. Therefore, it is clear and obvious that since life first starts at fertilization, this is where personhood should be set at since this is the only point that can be scientifically determined to pass the precautionary principal. So, the unborn child has its own bodily autonomy rights starting at life (fertilization). Thus, since women and and children both have bodily autonomy rights, what wins out? The choice to abort or life? In these situations, the court has a balance of the interest test. The Court asks which interest is more important? My argument is life outweighs 9 months. But don't just take my point of view, lets see how the supreme court weighs in on this in Roe. In Roe, as stated above, they explain that if personhood was found at life, then it outweighs choice. In my argument, personhood is at fertilization (aka life). Thus, the court agrees with me if they use the precautionary principal and life would win over the choice to have an abortion. Now, a counter-argument would be that we need to follow our precedent on abortion (this is called stare decisis in law) and not change our ruling. I agree that we do need to follow precedent for the majority of law. However, sometimes the courts go against their precedent. For example, with abortion, the precedent was changed from a trimester approach to an undue burden standard. The precedent changed there. Another bigger example of a precedent change based on changing morals and understanding is the separate but equal decision. Precedent changes and it should here based on the precautionary principal. Finally, to have science showing that life begins at fertilization, but to have the court say that they do not have personhood is misguided and unacceptable. This is akin to the argument used to allow slavery. Then, we argued that since slaves did not actually have personhood, we could chain them up. Obviously, this is very wrong and thankfully, we gave everyone personhood (except babies). Even more, even if a baby can survive outside the womb by itself, it still needs the help of others to survive. How is the magic act of being able to survive outside a womb enough to grant the magic term of personhood? When there is life, there needs to be personhood. This farce of separating the two to justify abortion needs to end.
I don't know what this has to do with my post. My point was not that there are no secular arguments, its that the public advocates don't come off like they are using them, but like their priority is the religious dynamic, or that the secular arguments are only there to uphold said religious dynamic. No one is going to trust ostensibly secular arguments from a group they know only uses secular arguments to convince outsiders, but internally does things based on religious ones. Someone who claims to take abortion seriously, but turns around and acts like they absolutely can't support efforts to get poor people easier access to condoms is in a position where a lot of people will tune out before even hearing their secular arguments. Hell, there are people who even if they agree often act like they don't out of fear of being associated with this type of person.

I didn't say that no one used nonreligious arguments... That wasn't my point at all. My point is that in the public sphere the paradigm of the debate basically amounts to it being seen as religion vs nonreligion. Too many of the groups against it, protests, whatever else basically exist as almost exclusively religious groups. If you try to find non religiously affiliated groups against it most of what you find looks like glorified blogs. The protests look like borderline church services, and half the pictures are jesus holding a baby while crying. And it gets in the news all the time that some group thinks being against birth control, including non abortificient birth control is an important crusade. Or insisting that sex education is evil apparently, and is totally all about encouraging sex even though its actually pretty cold and mechanical most of the time. As long as the major groups and dynamics look like that it will be functionally unsalvagable. How many of those people even know don marquis by name? They are more likely to cite some religious book about the issue.
The point is that you can't really separate that argument from being something that religious people simply use to justify their position. With most issues like this, people feel a certain way, and then look for arguments to justify it. So even an reasonable secular argument, often comes off as just trying to justify a feeling that people have for religious reasons. Because you didn't sit down and say, what should my stance be on abortion, you sat down and said how can I justify abortion being wrong.

It is a legitimate argument, but when the people making it are in fact religious, it's always gonna look like a secular justification for something religious, which is basically correct, even if it's a legitimate argument. It's like when some lobbying group promotes the benefit of their product, they might not be wrong, they might have very legitimate arguments, but it's disingenuous to pretend that they don't have an agenda. It's the same thing here. It's always gonna look fishy to say that yes you are religious, and yes to think that abortion is morally wrong, in line with your religion, but here is a secular argument that is in no way motivated by those other facts. That just isn't how people work.

Right, but in that case, I would say yes, it is because I want to help the poor. Whereas you are saying that you aren't doing it for some religiously motivated reason. If someone doesn't agree with the religious agenda in the first place, they aren't gonna listen to arguments that were made just to support it. If my friends and I are trying to decide which bar to go to, and one of them keeps making arguments for a certain bar, but I know its just because he likes one of the bartenders there, I'm gonna take everything he says with a grain of salt I am explicitly not attacking your arguments on its merits, or attacking your argument at all. I am just saying that people do take the source into account when evaluating arguments, there isn't anything unfair about that. That is how people work,  Also you can't say its the best solution, its your solution based on your values, other people clearly disagree.

Indeed.  Actually, they're exclusive, having consigned a whole class of humans to sub-human status. I have more sympathy for people who believe animals have rights than these folks.  As ridiculous as it would be to make a monkey a legal person, one could at least argue that those folks are being truly inclusive and erring on the side of providing more rights than fewer. Of course, most of those folks are probably pro-choicers, given the general bent of animal rights towards the "progressive" camp.  Go figure.
Some might say it's ridiculous to care more about clumps of cells than actual living beings.
One could, but that would be poor biology if you're suggesting that the "clumps of cells" are not both alive and human beings.
Absolutely. That's why I just redefine all the inconvenient and unneeded animals in my life as "clumps of cells". Makes it much easier for me to justify killing them.
Not really sure why you're in a position where you regularly kill animals or how you can reconcile that with claiming to be "pro-life" but it's your life.
"Pro-life" has nothing to do with other animals besides humans. You're unfairly expanding it to something to suit your purpose. For the record, I don't personally regularly kill animals. And I see no problem with protecting human life while realizing that other animals that aren't human don't need the same protection.
There are over 7 billion humans in the world, more than ever before, and we keep expanding. Like parasites. Every year thousands of non-human animal species go extinct because of human actions. If anything, humans don't need the protection that non-human animals need.
I fail to see how having more people on the planet means that they are worth less than fewer people, even if we accept that overpopulation isn't a myth. I'm also wondering exactly which humans you consider like parasites. Yourself? Your family? People in India, China, Indonesia? Please point out the person that is "too much" and that doesn't deserve to live, because they're a parasite. Don't forget, you can always do your part! "Save the Planet, Kill Yourself!"
No plans on killing myself or anyone. But if we can use abortion to lessen the number of humans born in the future, it'll be worth it.
Wow, how selfish of you! To think of only yourself when the whole world is literally dying, as we speak?! For shame...

Usually it doesn't take long before you people reveal how truly frightening and incoherent your worldview is when it comes to human life.

Why not? According to you humans are like parasites. If you think abortions should be allowed because humans are dangerous to the planet and there are too many of us, why should killing be only limited to unborn humans? (By they way, I'm not actually trying to convince you to kill yourself or anyone else)
I think the fight is unfortunately over
The battle is over, that's true for now.  But they didn't give up after they failed in 1983, and failing now in 2018 doesn't mean we give up either.  Unfortunately, it has opened the floodgates for possibly as long as that for children to be killed, but the fight isn't over.  It will never be over while they're killing children.
I say fight on, but quit playing nice. Pro choice scum won’t ever change. Baby killers gonna keep killing. I say do ANYTHING to stop it at this point. Sometimes when a bully punches you have to punch back to get him to stop.




Very interesting news -- although I would prefer more honest outright bans on abortions, it seems like these work-around defacto bans on clinics might start sticking if the Supreme Court refuses to hear them.
Why? There's no point in passing laws that will be struck down in a matter of days (even hours).
I meant like an overturning of Roe V Wade, which would allow the states to make their own laws without fear of being struck down
Congress can't do that. Until the SCOTUS is pro life enough to overturn, we're stuck on incremental measures (which still work well).
This kind of dishonest legislation never works for long, and ultimately ends up rallying people against lawmakers trying whatever roundabout methods they can to interfere with a legal medical procedure.
And outright banning it wouldn't? These "dishonest" measures are the best we have until RBG dies.
Outright banning it isn't the alternative. The alternative is respecting the law of the land and the will of the people.
Except "the people" want significantly more restrictive laws than are allowed under Roe.
Where are you getting that idea? This law pertains to medical abortions, ie first trimester abortions that have always been strongly supported by the general public.
So should we only respect the will of the people in this specific instance, or in general? And whether the public supports medical abortions is irrelevant; the applicable question would be how the public feels about admitting privilege restrictions.
I'm talking about this law specifically. Whether the public supports medical abortions is absolutely relevant - the law's intention is to limit access to them, why would it not be relevant? It's the mechanism, these admitting privilege requirements, that are less relevant because they have no purpose other than strangling abortion access. Who cares exactly how they do it when the problem is that they're doing it in the first place.
Most people support eating food, but that doesn't mean they oppose any restrictions on how food is provided.
That's a really bad metaphor - they'd sure oppose those restrictions if it meant they couldn't eat anything altogether. And especially if the restrictions didn't actually have any basis in food safety and were really just there to throttle access to food because of someone's personal beliefs.

Perhaps, but in the meantime unborn children will be saved.
Its worth mentioning that this just kicks the case back to the district court, although it may allow for the law to be implemented temporarily.

Negative consequences such as... HMMMMMMMMMMMMMM. MY KID DEAD.


If you've spent any time arguing with pro-choice activists, you've probably come across these two common thought experiments, which have remained relatively fixed in the 'reproductive rights' repertoire whenever discussion gets a chance to evolve past the bundle of cells/don't tell me what to do stage.I've had these arguments brought up as an attempt at a coup de grâce, and I've decided to write a short few posts on how ill-formed they are logically, despite their longstanding popularity.The first comes from a paper written in the 1970s titled A Defense of Abortion, in which the author asks us to imagine that we have been kidnapped and wired up as a makeshift dialysis machine for a fatally-ill person (a violinist specifically). If we agree to remain attached to the life-saving equipment for 9 months, the violinist will fully recover. However, we are also entitled to remove ourselves from the machinery and leave, resulting in his/her death. The author contends that it would be morally acceptible to unplug from the machine, for you had no part in creating his situation, and are not obligated to be a slave for his recovery.What are the problems with this argument?In the thought experiment, the protagonist is forcefully abducted and attached to the machine, intertwining her choices with the life of the violinist. This is not analogous to the case of making a choice to engage in consentual sexual activity. If this story were to be more accurate, the protagonist would have volunteered for a chance to be hooked up to the violinist à la a lottery system where she was awarded cash or some other desire in exchange for potentially having to aide in the violinists' recovery. After being selected though, she realizes that she could leave and let the violinist die.How does this change the scenario? The protagonist had a choice in whether or not to be a participant, and because they volunteered, they are now responsible for a death should they choose to break their agreement.2) The violinist in the story has a fatal condition which is presumably unrelated to any other character in the story. This means that if the protagonist chooses to unplug themselves from the machine, the violinist will die of natural causes. Compare this to abortion, where the fetus is living and healthy. In order to complete the abortion, it must actively be killed, as opposed to being allowed to die of natural causes.3) Even granting the thought experiment it's intended analogy, it is a very weak moral case. The protagonist is asked to sacrifice 9 months of their life in order to save another person. I may agree that they are not compelled to remain hooked up to the machine, but it is straightforwardly the more moral choice.This leads into trickier ethical waters, and most people acknowledge the circumstances surrounding rape can change the moral calculus, but I still think there is something to be said that one of the most famous pro-choice arguments, ignoring the flaws pointed out above, yields such a weak approbation that most will recognize as the least moral choice of the given options.Part II to come.
I haven't read the whole thing, but I'm probably aware of most of them, but you miss the point:  They don't care.  A lot of will do anything they can get away with and don't care if they are hurting or killing another human being.  The only opinions that matter are the ones sitting on the supreme court.  When they recognize the unborn as persons deserving of rights, thing will change.  Arguing with lay people is pointless.
This a the sad truth. They want abortion to be okay.
That seems like a cynical outlook. I think a lot of people walk around without ever having questioned the pro-choice narrative. Even a SCOTUS decision won't matter in the longterm if the public at large cannot understand the prolife argument.
I agree that many people have not seriously looked at the question of abortion and its impact.  I'd say the pro-choice angle has pull among the population for the very simple reason that they can envision a woman being upset, but they feel an unborn child is too abstract a notion for them.  It's easier for them to dismiss it with all sorts of false statements such as "it's not alive," "it's not human," and etc. I remember the violinist argument vividly myself because it is the first argument used on me by a pro-choice junior high school girl when she found out I was questioning the pro-choice position. Although I wish I could say I eloquently parried it, I could tell it was full of holes even as I listened to it.  Later on, I heard it was a famous argument, and I honestly wondered why anyone would be taken in by it.  The answer, of course, is because were its holes are, are similarly where the holes in their reasoning in regard to abortion exist.  They see it as a violation of a woman's rights, and the child representing nothing more than an imposition put upon a woman with absolutely no input or consent from the woman, as if she was stolen away in the night and hooked up to some old white man.
I came here from the frontpage and I'm just curious if there is any argument pro-lifers have other than "abortion is murder". Because (I'm being unbiased here) if you don't view a foetus as a human being, it can't be murder in your eyes, right? So that argument feels invalid as it won't achieve anything. Is there another argument anyone can explain to me?
That's the main one.  They have a human Mother and human Father (obviously) and vast majority have viable human DNA unique from either the father or mother (so not a "part" of the mother).  What else would they be but human?  A dog? You just figure it's ok to kill them because they can't fight back.   You'd do the same thing to born humans if the legal system let you.
There's no arguing that a baby is a human being. The argument is that a foetus is obviously human life, but there is a divide between people who see that life as a person and people who do not. I would not see it acceptable to kill something I believe to be a person, for example a newborn baby (equally a foetus past a certain stage). I didn't come to a pro-life sub to debate - that would be silly. I requested information to better understand your point of view. I'd appreciate not being accused of having moral beliefs I don't have (by a stranger). In return I'll do you the same courtesy.
I guess you need to decide why killing anyone else is wrong in general.  Even if you think they have a crappy life, and you could do it painlessly, and without them knowing about it, and no one would care if they were gone (I'm assuming you do believe such a killing would be wrong, of course.  If you don't have a problem with it, I can see why you'd have no problem with abortion).
I think this analogy(organ donation) is flawed because it involves some important moral differences. For starters, organ donation discusses the permanent use of an organ, and includes the use of organs that the donor need to keep in order to live. So to forcibly take some of those organs would result in murder. Secondly, the comparison should be someone needs an organ because of something you did, with full knowledge of the possible outcomes of your actions. What matters is foreknowledge. I don't care if you didn't intend to get pregnant when having sex - I care if you knew you would get pregnant and :have: to get an abortion and chose to engage in sexual activity anyway.
One thing that drives me up a god damn wall was this argument I had some time ago. The girl in question said that so many orphans have problems in their lives so they’re better off being aborted rather than having a chance for adoption. So we should just kill babies instead of giving them a chance at life? Is suffering not inevitable in life? Might as well kill yourself, right? To avoid suffering?
I would argue the violinist analogy is perhaps a good argument for "evictionism", allowing the removal of unborn children in the case of pregnancies by rape, with a couple caveats. The first, is that the "eviction" is performed with the intent of removing the child from the mother's body as the first priority, but preserving the life of the child if at all possible as the second priority.  An unwitting victim may have the right to detach themselves from the violinist, but they don't have the right to hack him to pieces with an axe in the process; and if there is a chance the violinist can survive, a doctor is obligated to help him. The second is that the doctor performing the eviction would be required to consider the interests of the child during the process, even in cases where they have no chance of survival.  This would include things like using anesthesia on the unborn child, to minimize their suffering.
If somebody agrees to be part of an organ donation exchange, then once (for example) their wife receives an organ they back out... should they be forced to donate their organ after all? (Incidentally, legally and ethically the answer to this is a resounding "no.") (This comment contains no pro-choice or pro-life content.)
That's an interesting disclaimer. I suppose what I would ask is whether those situations are really analogous. This scenario seems like it would be more akin to agreeing to donate an organ (or the chance to donate an organ), and then changing your mind after the recipient is already sliced open and will die without it. That's a closer analogy to the violinist metaphor, anyway.
There is no situation in the US where you are legally obligated to undergo a surgery.
That's not even true, but it's irrelevant anyway. If you did volunteer an organ and then backed out at the last second, resulting in the death of the recipient because they already went under the knife, I would have no problem calling that murder.
Nor would I.
why wouldn’t you call it manslaughter?
Why would I? It's not accidental.
The difference between murder and manslaughter is not accident-ness; criminal neglect can be deliberate. I'm curious to know what you had in mind.
But you can't take back an organ once you've already donated it right? It's not like it's legal to rip the organ out of the organ receiver's body once it's already been transplanted. Similarly, it can be argued that a pregnant woman shouldn't be allowed to "take back her uterus" once the baby has been conceived and is already using it. Just like how you can't take your organ back once it's donated.
It's true, once it's out of your body you don't have jurisdiction over it. The uterus is still in her body.  It has not been donated. I think a comparison to your "take back" example would be... imagine that we had never developed dialysis.  One of a pair of twins develops kidney failure.  We hook up a pair of A-V connections between them so that both of their blood circulates through the healthy kidneys.  This way, we are keeping the kidney-failure twin alive.  The healthy twin agrees to this. Two days later, the healthy twin wishes to disconnect the tubes, get up, and leave.  Should the law stop this?
Why shouldn't there be a law against that? We can boil this down to an even simpler analogy. You're walking down the street and see somebody with their legs crushed by a fallen tree. You agree to help them. You lift the tree up so they can get out, but halfway through you decide you're not obligated to help them and drop the tree on their head, killing them. Is that not murder? They could have been rescued by some other means. That's what the violinist story and your twins on dialysis story are claiming - it doesn't hold water in any circumstance except rape, in which the donor/samaritan doesn't have a choice to pick up the tree/donate an organ/be hooked up to the violinist.
In the tree case though you are leaving the person worse off, so that's easily wrong. You don't have an obligation to help them, but that doesn't mean you can hurt them. With a fetus its more complicated because it depends on how you define the initial state. From a certain perspective, it doesn't have any intrinsic value, so you go from nothing to nothing, so you didn't lose anything. There wasn't a child before and there wasn't a child after, there is no loss there. All those other analogies explicitly involve a change of state..
Right, it's leaving them worse off, but so is changing your mind halfway through an organ donation, which someone brought up as a counterexample. That's what I was trying to get across, the tree is not meant to be a metaphor for abortion.
Even with the organ donation thing, I'd say it's fine unless there was some malicious intent. It would be more negligence of the hospital to allow that situation to happen in the first place. I would imagine they don't take any risks until they have the organ in hand.
It's a thought experiment, not reality. With that in mind, how is it different than the tree? The recipient could have waited for another donor and lived, but because you offered and changed your mind, they will die.
Since the baby is using the uterus, in a way it has been donated (assuming the mother had not been raped). "taking back her uterus" would bear the same consequences as someone taking back their kidney. The baby/organ receiver would die. So although donating an organ isn't a perfect analogy for pregnancy, I think it's still good enough to hold up. The difference between this and pregnancy is that the mother has intentionally placed her child in a position where it is dependent on her, whereas the healthy twin is in no way responsible for sick twin's disease. If in your example the healthy twin had intentionally destroyed the other twin's kidneys causing the dependency, then yes, I would support the law in stopping the healthy twin from disconnecting the tubes. If you don't agree with this line of thinking, then we've probably reached an impasse in the discussion.
Well, I disagree with it in two ways -- both that it's an appropriate analogy (I'm a non-fetal-personhood kinda person) and on whether or not it should be legal. But one thing I want to be clear on is that, beyond my own feelings on ethics, the biomedical ethical standard is not to enforce medical procedures (or continuation of medical procedures) through legal force at any time for a patient with capacity.

lol the funny thing was as they were getting a more and more accurate vote while counting the votes sometimes the yes side would be at 66.6%
This article isn't very well written. To clarify, what we voted on was the removal of the eighth amendment, and to then replace it with text that reads: "Provision may be made by law for the regulation of termination of pregnancy".
Don't expect anything good from the Federalist to be honest.

Honestly, I think at this point in time, an abortion law that contains exceptions for mental health, rape, fetal anomaly, mother's physical health, etc. is basically unworkable in most developed countries because it essentially becomes abortion on demand. That kind of law was workable in the 1950s, because there was enough cultural disapproval of abortion both among the public and the medical establishment to keep a line drawn. Nowadays, I don't think there's enough of that to maintain that line. However, the alternative (allowing abortion only to save the mother's life) is just too unpopular with the public to be maintained (as the vote in Ireland shows). The only developed country that's been able to maintain an abortion law with exceptions is Poland (NI's abortion law is less strict than Ireland's was but it doesn't have a rape or fetal anomaly exception), but Poland is in a unique position in that it is heavily Catholic when compared to the rest of Europe so that cultural disapproval is still there. Also, abortion on demand has a history of being associated with German occupation and communism (which the Catholic church there was a strong opponent of) which probably helps. I'd say probably the best route right now in the US is to keep passing incremental pro-life laws, not only because Casey blocks anything else but also because it might be the most realistic way to restrict abortion at this point in time.
I feel like the problem with Ireland is they did not have appropriate standards of care for the situation.  The problem was not a failure of the pro-life position, it was a failure to understand what is really life threatening and to respond. Those who support the right to life also have a duty to attempt to ensure that professionals do their best to save lives.  It is possible, in the case of Ireland, and I think El Salvador, where the rules were not to my liking because they go/went too far in the other direction. We need to consider two patients in any situation like this.  While abortion on demand is critically denying that one of the patients is even a patient, we can make the same mistake by making the child more important than the other patient: the mother. If the pro-choice position had been less prevalent in the media and increasingly in society, this would have been obvious and could have been handled appropriately.  Unfortunately, it was spun as a reason to allow killing on demand, as opposed to simply removing the imbalance of care, and swung to the other side way too far.
I agree that was a concern, but a large majority of Irish (as well as Americans) support exceptions for rape and fetal deformity. Almost 60% of pro-life Americans support the rape exception according to Gallup. I fear that if pro-lifers were to try to pass a law banning abortion without those exceptions those pro-lifers that favor exceptions will be drawn to the pro-choice side. Then it will become even more difficult to pass anti-abortion laws. Although it would certainly save some lives, a constitutional amendment that doesn't allow abortion in any circumstance but to save the mother isn't much of a victory if it goes the way of Prohibition and ends up repealed in a few years. Then we could wind up in an even worse situation than we are now because the pro-choice movement will have gained more votes to their side that pro-lifers may struggle to gain back. I know this sounds cynical but it's just how I'm feeling right now. I think if the goal is to save lives, then we need to pass laws that are actually sustainable and try to change the culture, which is a lot harder than just changing the law, but has to be done.
I agree with the need to change the culture, and to do what is possible.  I wouldn't be upset with a ban with a rape exception, as we'd likely be saving 95% of lives, but it would mean there is still work to be done for those 5%. While the rape exception is the most understandable exception (aside from the threat of maternal death), it is frankly difficult to support if you believe that the child is worthy of life.  That would mean that the child will be killed for someone else's crime while posing no threat to the mother in any other way.  Two victims instead of only one.  That is unjust.
I understand not liking the rape exception, but if given the choice between banning abortion with exceptions and having abortion on demand, I'll pick the former. And at least in the near future, I think those are really the only two choices that we have.
I certainly won't refuse to vote for such a ban with a rape exception, for obvious reasons.  However, the work will not be over if and when that happens.  If it takes longer to bring everyone around to understanding that the exception is wrong, I'll take some comfort in saving who we can in the meantime. Although, I will point out, while that exception will reduce abortions from hundreds of thousands to perhaps tens of thousands per year, it will still be at a level of things such as yearly levels of gun violence and car accidents, which are relatively big problems in the US.
That's gonna put the pro-life camp in an awkward position when people just start lying about getting raped though.
A false reporting of a rape will have one of two effects: either pretending that there was some anonymous person who raped them, or accusing someone specific of rape.  Either way, investigations can be done in the normal manner as to determine the veracity of that statement and appropriate penalties exacted. Of course, you do bring up a good point and it is a secondary reason I don't care for the rape exception; the primary being the fact that you shouldn't be killing someone for a crime they didn't commit.  Rape is a tricky matter to prove.  There will be issues where people will lie.  I would be working immediately to end the rape exception if it was enacted, even while being somewhat relieved at the saving of the great majority of lives that would have otherwise been ended in that manner. Of course if it is completely outlawed save for medical necessity some people, including doctors, will lie about whether it is "life or death" too.  Some will not be caught in that lie, but some will be.  Those caught will go to jail or meet other appropriate sanction.  Those not caught will quite possibly get away with it. As with lying about rape, there is a point where we have done what is reasonable to prevent killing, but like the statute for murder, illegality certainly won't stop all cases any more than it did before it was legalized.
But when someone says they were raped by some random guy 3 months ago and they don't remember want he looked like, what happens then? Does PP just say we're sorry to hear that and then do the abortion or do the police have to get involved? Also once there was a rape exception there is no way you could be against that without looking like you were against rape victims.
The police would have to be involved for sure. I don't see how you simply say, oh hey, I was raped.  That's not going to work. Again, you're talking to the wrong guy about the rape exception, I'm not in favor of it at all.  It would be like someone closing down 9/10 extermination camps.  That's going to slow the killings down and its hard to be against that, but we're still operating an extermination camp.  All extermination camps need to go, to extend the metaphor.
Yes the rape exception is unworkable.
When Ireland passed the 13th amendment , which allowed women to travel for abortion it undermined the 8th .  Before Saturday, Ireland had abortion it was just in the UK. The availability of abortion pills online was another factor in why people voted yes . The 8th didn’t stop abortion, just made it harder to obtain especially for poorer women.
If abortions were dangerous before they were illegal, I don’t see how they are safe even if they’re legalized.
National health service.
They're safer than colonoscopies.
I really doubt that since the point of a colonoscopy is to find cancer in your bowels.
And yet it is true.
Where’s your proof?
You realize that you made the initial allegation here, that abortion was unsafe?  I don't actually have the burden of proof here. I'm happy to dig some up, but I want to check first: what complication rate do you think abortions have in the US?  Major complications?  Minor complications?  Death?
Depression, PTSD, cervical and breast cancer, infertility and possible death. http://hushfilm.com Here’s my proof since you seem to be lacking some in your argument.
Your source is a movie? I'm pro life but that's a rubbish source.
You didn’t watch it did you? This was made by someone pro choice who makes an investigation on why women who get abortions have the most breast cancer.
No i'm not watching a long documentary when you could easily find a 5 minute (at most) long article.

Your propaganda is interesting; I'll share some studies in a minute.  I asked what rate you thought there was.  Death, for example -- what do you think the mortality rate is per 100,000 abortions?
I would say about 50% from the procedure and the other half from the effects that gives you cancer. Also how is what I am saying is propaganda if I come from a family that is in the medical field?

Aren't they basically advocating unmonitored back-alley abortions?
Pretty much. It'd be funny if it weren't so tragic.
Arrest them
Vile
I hope Northern Ireland denies them entry to the country.
Oh no! I've heard of this so called abortion bus before. They been doing this for at least a few years. I don't know how the hell they haven't been stopped yet.
Just like drinking, smoking and doing drugs you put yourself in risk every time you do it. That’s your choice to make but you must accept the consequences of your actions. It’s sick how people put the abandon their responsibilities for pleasure
Men are equally as capable of creating life as women.
This is true, and a very important point.  If a man has a role in creating a child, he is held responsible for supporting it even if he wants nothing to do with it.  Which is a perfectly reasonable position to take.
Create it? Yes. But keeping him alive for his first nine months of life is something only their mother is able to do.
We aren't arguing that.
Still, that privilege women have over men comes with a responsability: To make good use of that gift. Specially, to not kill the life they just conceived.
Am a woman, would hardly consider that a privilege.
We are the only human beings capable of keeping a child alive for his first nine months of life. I'd say that's a pretty big privilege. Men will never be able to do that. They need a woman to carry the child for them.
I still hold my opinion, but it's also nice to hear your point of view (I'd never have thought about it your way). Thanks for replying to me so politely. Hope you have a great day
There's no reason to be rude to people who aren't doing anything wrong. I try to stay polite.
Ok then?
Yeah this is true.
It goes for both men and women. But women especially, since they are the ones legally permitted to murder the children they create.
CAreful with this argument, prochoicers like to cite that 0.01 of abortions requested for rape reasons as if that was the only reason a woman would request an abortion.
I think the core key to this argument is that one side believes that the "life" is a human being worthy of all human rights and the other side does not. I think we should spend more of our time producing media and vigorously debating for the bio-ethics of the pro-life position. Because it doesn't simply hinge on a religious conviction, but a debasement of life, which the majority of people can agree on if they really gave more than two seconds of thought.
Are you the fun police or something?
Sperm and egg together can start the process of creating a new life. An individual woman facing pregnancy has the responsibility of deciding wether or not to go through with it, not people who will never have to deal with the decision she makes.
Right and wrong is irrelevant to her decision directly effecting me. If someone across the world murders some random person I’ll never meet it doesn’t matter. They shouldn’t be allowed to. Because it’s wrong
So, if a person DID have to deal with the decision she makes, that person could have a say?
People can't help themselves from having an opinion, obviously. The father and other people in the woman's life can have their say but not control over what the woman ultimately does.
What about the person her decision will kill?
It has no meaning of life or death. We remember nothing while in the womb. The woman's right to decide not to continue a pregnancy should not be disregarded
Do you believe in an afterlife?  If no,  you wouldn't remember being killed either, so....?
I appreciated all the posts you made here. Some people still have to hear it.
I don't remember anything from preschool. Does a preschooler's life have no meaning?
So other women can help her decide to let her daughter live? You know, since we will also deal with that "decision". Honestly, there's no decision to make on this regard. Everyone has a right to life, period. It doesn't matter what size or age they are.
Other women whose opinions matter to her can influence her decision to go through a pregnancy. And no, other people outside of the woman's life do not have to deal with her decision. You will not be directly effected if she gives birth or goes through abortion. You do not know every single woman on earth who has and will face this decision. And if you really are an advocate for the right to life the pro life movement would try and make it a requirement for everyone to give blood, bone marrow, and organs as well. The right to continue tlufe would be your motto, not just forcing women to give birth.
Look, that's plain wrong. If I know for sure a child was killed, that will affect me. You know, all those children in war zones dying or starving because they are going through a famine that pro-choicers love to use as a reason to support abortion? It's going to affect everyone who knows how horrible death is. Hungry children, children dying in war zones, aborted children. They are all dead children we should be mourning, not using as a excuse to instigate more adults to kill children. If you have a drop of respect for human dignity, you'll leave these children finally rest and hope we can save the ones who are still alive from sufering the same fate. This includes unborn children.
You were not at all directly impacted by ariel castro keeping those 3 women as slaves. I hope you don't have any opinion on that
Good lord. So here we have someone suggesting that not contributing a tiny bit extra to the stock of blood is permanently as causal a link with deliberately taking life as someone getting an abortion. Really made me think.
Well, its clearly less of a health risk and time then nine months of someones life. Or you know, a woman's actual life. It needed to be said.
Nice sidestep. It is not the degree of risk or inconvenience to the donor/pregnant woman that makes the comparison incoherent; it is the lack of a direct link with me not adding a bit more to the blood stock and me intentionally eradicating a life that makes it incoherent.
All it means is that I suck at a coherent debate. My point is this: abortion is not recognized as  murder globally. If you expect every woman to be forced to go through with a pregnancy that they do not want and are unwilling yourself to just donate blood to help save a life... Then you have no right to expect someone to do the same through forced childbirth.
I think your comparison is off. For starters, these people need to be in a situation where they need a blood donation because of something I did, something I knew would result in their condition. Second, even if I was responsible for their condition, at no point in time would I be morally justified in shooting them because I didn't want to donate.
Wrong. She has no right to kill her child.
Women do have the right to end a pregnancy, just look at the US, Canada & now Ireland But your right, it is murder when the baby has been delivered.
No, it’s murder as soon as the baby  is alive. If we’re going on legality equals morality, Nazis had a right to exterminate the Jews. (Edit for typo)
Why does a counter for abortion lead to the Nazis eradication of Jews? Its no where near the same thing in my mind. Please explain how the 2 things are comparable
Both fetuses and jews are people that certain societies didn't consider people, or people worthy of the right to live, during various times in history
All right I can understand that explanation but I can't ignore that in the case of abortion there is a fully grown adult that does not want to be forced to carry a pregnancy. I can't see past that. I get what your trying to say but for me the life and health of the woman should always come first. Pregnancy can alter the body in ways that go far beyond a little inconvenience. For some its a death sentence. I can never ignore that.
If the woman's life is in danger the principal of double affect is applicable, but even though the death of the baby is foreseeable, it is not the direct intent of the salpingectomy or cesarean section delivery. Both of them will die so taking no action actually kills both of them. This is not relevant to your position about the adult mattering more.
For all unborn children, not just some, abortion is always a death sentence. I can never ignore that.
You argue for abortion on the grounds that abortion is legal in some countries. The Nazi eradication of Jews was legal too.
I'm guessing you're Catholic?
I don't know what that has to do with being prolife.
It’s pro abortion trolling.
Oh, I see. Funny how I got banned from their sub for being prolife, but they don't even notice how they continue to be allowed to troll here.
Yeah, the mods don’t enforce the rules here at all.
Bring it up with your own mods.  Normally we keep notes on why we ban people; looks like we weren't yet doing that with you.  Do you have a link to the comment/post you were banned for?
No, it happened last year. I'm not going to comb through months of comments to explain myself because a shitty sub banned me because I think murder is wrong. If you want to hear my side, I was debating with another redditor there about the science of mother and child being two separate bodies and not one since conception, and I suddenly got a message that I was banned. I tried to contact the mods to see if I did something wrong, but the only answer I got was that I was banned, and the decision was final. If I was rude, or broke a rule, they would have told me for sure. But giving their answer, my best bet is that they simply didn't want me there because I'm prolife.
Nope but it’s a fair guess

Why are you asking them?

So being me a moral person is now a bad thing? Ok

calling out evil is now self righteous. Understood
Responsibility is now idiotic and self righteous. Says a lot about people today.

I legitimately want this guy in politics.
Which one?
Shapiro. Although I'm rather unfamiliar with Jeff Durbin, but he seems like a decent enough fellow. Shapiro just addresses the abortion issue head-on and with such precision, and I wish all pro-life politicians could do so as well as he does. (Although a few of them, like Rubio, share his passion at least)
I would love to see Ben Shapiro as president! Jeff Durbin is a good preacher but I don't see him doing well in politics. If you're not interested in watching him preach I recommend you at least watch his videos of him at abortion mills.



I’m currently in the midst of the comment section of the original post. I posted something about how I don’t fit the stereotypical prolife demographic (white politicians) and I’m I’m trying to answer all these replies
It's a struggle when people continue to assume you're religious or republican
im a democratic socialist. its rough. this is one of a few issues i tend to not know my whole stance, but currently i agree with pro life more.
Being a progressive pro-lifer is the woooorst. You can only talk about being pro-life with conservatives but then it’ll turn into discussion about something you find very offensive but when you talk to your progressive friends the conversation goes great until they mention being pro-choice and then it gets real awkward too.
"kids dying is bad, therefore I should be able to kill my kids" What is wrong with people? Also, "you can't be against killing kids unless you personally house every adoptable child". A) many of us would love to adopt but can't go through the absolutely insane legal hoops to do so. DAE have $20k+ just sitting around ready to go. 2) I wonder if they apply this same horrible logic to everything else. "you can't be against rape unless you shelter rape victims". "you can't be against burglary unless you personally reimburse all theft victims".
Then maybe try abstinence instead if you think all these things will happen to your would be child. And maybe you can advocate for safe schools, clean water, and protest against police brutality. Instead of, you know, using murder as a cop out because you want an excuse not to have a kid
"Wow, life is going to shit, let's just stop life"
Well said
Ah, the “better dead than...” argument. I’ve seen this quite often, ‘better dead than poor” is used quite often in my country
At the risk of sounding petty, I hate when people think grafting swears into their posts somehow makes their ideas stronger. Also, as already mentioned, this argument makes zero sense. A and B are happening, so C is okay! Pick any two crimes and throw in a hot topic and you'll end up with something equally incomprehensible: "People are abusing their spouses, others are going to war, and yet you don't think we should take care of the environment?" Throw in an F-bomb or two for emphasis--that's the new exclamation point!
Unless your answer to those problems is a bullet to the head, the opinion here is inconsistent.
Let's ask any of those kids whether they would have preferred to have been sliced up and vacuumed out of the womb and see what they say?
She acts like those are the results people aim for. Wouldn't a better response be "with all this evil, I'm gonna do my job to prevent more"?
that would be far too rational
Unfortunately that kind of people exists and they are convinced that they are right and allowed by the laws to be the judge and jury in denying the right to be born
Sad to see this on “blackpeopletwitter” considering black babies are aborted at a higher rate than any other race of babies in America. Fertility rates for black people have declined sharply too, just look at the latest figures. This is nothing to banter about, abortion is destroying the black community.
All the comments talk about how pro-life people are actually “pro birth” and don’t care what happens after the birth.  It’s sad
Lots of kids need saving.  But we have to start somewhere.
To be fair, I don't think this is the stupid "Bad things will happen to them, so might as well kill them to spare them that" argument. I think this is the "There are worse things happening that you should be more concerned about argument." Still dumb, and a bit of a strawman, as it assumes you're not concerned/active about those problems, but I don't think the argument being mocked is what they're saying.
youre right. but its just dumb to say at all.
Some pro-choice arguments are better than others.  This one is pretty awful.
And yet you want me to pay for what happens in your uterus your stupid cunt! If you want to tax me for it IT BECOMES MY BUSINESS.
If you can't make comments without calling people cunts, you will be banned. Fair warning.
Thank you for giving me this fair opportunity for me to unsubscribe.
Lol "I can't call people cunts? UNSUBSCRIBING!" no.... please don't go....
Did I hurt your feelings darling? Or do you still retain that childish notion of the last word? Don’t worry honey, you may have it now.
Hurt my feelings? No, I thought it was funny that someone would unsubcribe because they can't be a raging asshole lol. I thought you were leaving?
I don't think he caught the sarcasm in your pleas to stay.
Holy shit you and /u/Imperiochica are fucking retarded.
LOL and he's still here! Otiac, I think this was made for you.
The perfect reply! Meme me to death more! The memes, noooo! LOL @ ur LOL lol!

As a woman, I’m a little more allowed to fight against the killing of the unborn. I’m allowed to have an opinion.Men are told they aren’t even allowed an opinion, and if they don’t support their partner having an abortion for whatever reason, they’re misogynists.
True, but women are subject to absolutely vicious verbal abuse from fellow women. You're a 'traitor to your sex' if you're not pro-abortion. And you have a tremendous amount of cultural pressure to stand against. Women have a lot of benefits in this case, but they have it tough too. Everyone does. Good on you for doing what you can.
To put it in SJW terms, oppression is largely horizontal.
I don't know; as a man I find the cry wolf "misogyny" to be less annoying than the claim that women must be self-loathing to vote against abortion. Still, if it helps you to stand up for the unborn, that's what really matters in the end.
Man tells his girlfriend not to kill his baby: misogyny Man pressures his girlfriend to have an abortion: totally ok and she should be celebrated for bowing to that pressure and exercising her “right” to abortion.
I think most pro choice people don't like the idea of woman being pressured into having an abortion. Thats like saying pro life people like forced pregnancies. Both are horrendous.
I understand that.  My comment was intended as hyperbole. I think the issue is more so that it happens all the time and it’s almost completely ignored.  There’s no accountability for the abortion providers an they’re lifted up as though they can do no wrong.
Oooh okay. I apologize, I misunderstood you.
As a guy it really bothers me when I’m told I’m being “misogynistic” by claiming I’m pro-life. It’s the exact opposite. I love life and women and I believe we need to  stop killing babies
People are looking for easy answers to understand why people oppose their views.  If they just think you hate or are trying to control women, it makes them easier to not consider you as a person with an argument they may have to think about. Whenever a person states something like that, I tend to ignore them.  If the tides were turned and the pro-life side began to predominate, those same people would probably join the pro-life side and parrot what someone else told them too.  I have no illusions about some people, even if they technically believe the same thing I do. My response to those making those invalid criticisms is universally that they are either not addressing the argument, or they are making the logical fallacy of attacking the person and not the argument. Men have both logical facilities and empathy.  If we combine that with including the viewpoint and perspectives of women, that is all we need to be able to make a valid argument for the right to life.
On the main news and politics subreddit, people were saying that most pro-lifers are just people who hate women. I was saying that I doubt that is very common, and how most people who oppose abortion simply because it is murder in their opinion. That is the main argument against abortion. Yes, whether or not abortion should be legal in cases of rape, incest or the mothers life is in danger is not so simple an issue. But the generic argument for being pro-life is pretty simple.
You're right, I don't think it is particularly common at all.  And I'd note that while I am usually in a male dominated group when I tend to talk about my interests in terms of say, video gaming, whenever I have been in a group of pro-life people, there's a large proportion of women, sometimes a majority. When I do my random clicking around the subreddits to places which I find to be pretty iffy when it comes to women, such as the Red Pill and other similar subs, I actually see a number of the men on those sites are very interested in obtaining abortions or at least maintaining it as an option.  I even recall one person who was asking for advice on how to get his girlfriend to get an abortion when she didn't want one. While I wouldn't say all of those people "hate" women either, they do want to control women or women's responses using (pseudo)science.  And when you're a man who wants control over women and their responses, you frequently want to prevent them from tying you down with children. Legalized abortion is a huge boon for some men who want to control women.  There are times when I wonder if some of the voices you hear loudly proclaiming that pro-lifers "hate" women are men who are more interested in ensuring that when they have sex, they have an "option" for eliminating any birth control "failures".
As a Mexican, I feel the same freedom when it comes to topics of race (not that I get very controversial). I feel those of us who often get lumped into ideologies because of our appearances / birth traits have a responsibility to push back against such assumptions.
“You’re not a woman, you’re not allowed to talk about the RIGHT TO CHOOSE” “You’re not a minority, you’re not allowed to talk about RACISM” Yeah? Well you’re not a soldier, so you can’t talk about military policy. You’re also not a business owner, so you can’t talk about regulation or corporate taxes. Because you’re also not a diplomat, you’re not allowed to have any foreign policy opinions. And since you’re not a mechanic, you can’t discuss auto regulation. Or, maybe you’re just clubbing people with different opinions with your bigoted remarks because you’re intolerant of other points of view.
Not a firefighter? You don't get to talk about arson.
Not retired? Shut up about pensions
Don't have puppies? Well then you can't talk about puppy murder.
Not Chinese? No chopsticks!!
Not a child? You're not allowed to talk about child abuse!1!1!!111!
You also know for sure your children are safe from abortion. I'm terrified of knocking someone up and being powerless to save my child.
Yep. That's why I'm only going to date prolife women, but also it's very hard (pretty much impossible) to want to date someone in the first place who generally thinks its ok to kill the unborn. One of my pro-life friends is dating someone who is ok with abortion!! I wonder did he know her views before dating. Why is he still dating her? Insane!
I mean, we've internalized misogyny, as pro life women. We must hate ourselves so very much for not understanding our basic human right to kill our babies-- sorry, parasites! clump of cells! /s God I have seen that argument so often it makes me want to roll my eyes in the back of my head.
I think there is just a lot of name calling going on in this discussion. If someone is saying a man can't have an opinion on abortion, I doubt that a woman reiterating his points will be all that more convincing. That being said, it might give them pause, and women are a lot more influenced by abortion (particularly anti-abortion laws) so there is an assumption that women will be more empathetic to those affected negatively by anti-abortion laws. Anyway, I am wondering what type of discussion you are hoping to spark with this post?
If men can’t discuss abortions then women can’t discuss circumcisions, it’s as fair as that.
I wish men were allowed to discuss circumcisions.
lol I know it sounds weird but i wish i was a woman for this reason

Just so much irony. The nazis wanted to kill all down syndrome people. Sound familiar? https://www.theguardian.com/society/2018/jan/19/downs-syndrome-test-condition-disappear-c-of-e-warns Yes I'm 100 percent sure that prolife Dr Ben Carson is a white supremacist and prolife Ben Shapiro is a nazi..... Pretty funny how if you disagree with these so called "Anti-fascists" (on things such as "killing babies is bad") the "anti-fascists" beat you up for disagreeing with them and use intimidation and fear tactics. Their lack of self awareness is hillarous. For heaven's sake they even dress up in black clothing https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blackshirts
Do they realize the Nazis loved abortion? Probably not, as that would require some knowledge of history.
In the period between the end of WWI and the rise to power of the Nazis, the Communists started with the revolutions and street fighting.  The Nazis rose to power, in part, due to the reaction against these sorts of violent activities and striking. So, in the end, they're doing exactly what you'd do if you wanted to encourage support for Nazis, rather than vice-versa. And I would point out that when it did come down to Nazis vs. Communists, the Nazis won.  Resorting to violent struggle doesn't make you virtuous, correct, nor does it guarantee victory. They're just street thugs looking for something to smash and happen to be leftists.  If they were right-wing, they'd actually be the Nazis.  I honestly don't really see much of a difference between the two sides when they get this way.
Actually, the nazis weren't right wing. They were left wing. The ones that started this myth were the soviets, who happen to be the only ideology more leftist than nazism. So yes, nazis are right wing... if you are a communist. No other ideology qualifies as more to the left than national socialism.
Well, to be fair, that's sort of true and sort of not.  I agree that they had socialist tendencies, but Hitler pretty much shitcanned the leftist side of the NSDAP around the time of the Night of the Long Knives.  After that, it is what you'd call state capitalism.  The state told the companies what to work on generally, but they gave them a free hand to do what they liked with the workers. Strictly speaking, the Nazis were not really like anything in the US today, including the so-called neo-Nazis, oddly enough.  What exists in the US are mostly the nationalist and racial purity aspects of National Socialism. There is something of the Leader Principle to it, but few US groups are full on authoritarian.  People in the US don't cotton well to being told what to do in such a direct way.  We're individualists more than anything else.  I don't think most US neo-Nazis would be able to stand being forced to goose-step around today.
Basic socialism. Leftist ideology.
The nazis destroyed the labor laws and the syndicates in exchange for a total control of the worker. This is the opposite of left-wing. They were far-right authoritarian, on all aspects.
And what do you think communism leads to in pactice?
Antifa are terrorists
Antifa are trash. They all look like meth heads when you see them without their masks.
Sharp and to the point!
Never forget: the media is on antifa's side.
Yeah, if it wasn't for the FAILING JEFF BEZOS NEW YORK TIMES, Hitler wouldn't have been slandered so badly.
I don’t see why anybody is scared of these people. It’s roving gangs of punks where there is no woman lighter than 300 pounds and no man heavier than 130. I would gleefully crack their skulls if they assaulted me.
Any threat of mob violence is serious. A crowd doesn't need to be fit and athletic to seriously hurt people.
I think even most pro-choicers I know dislike these terrorists.
Is anybody surprised that self proclaimed antifascists see no wrong in their actions ?
This is Gateway Pundit. That site is trash and often has fake news. Whether Antifa said that or not, I can't believe we're giving them a platform in this sub.
Fuck them.

Here’s hoping that Parliament upholds the 8th.
Here's hoping they uphold the people's vote.
Is the peoples vote pro-abortion?
Well the people's vote was pro-abortion so yeah. I would support upholding it even if it was pro-life though.
I agree.
Unlikely with such a landslide , Leo Varadkar said they anticipate the legislation passing in Autumn
Saw a CNN post earlier deleting any comment even slightly questioning of the justice and awesomeness of killing the unborn. Fucking animals

I’m sick of this “yay victory for women” bullshit. I’m a woman and would never kill a child.
Generalizing a group to further a message is usually their modus operandi, progressives, bigots... the list goes on
Ok, so don't? It's a victory for women because of situations like Savita Halappanavar's death. She could have been saved.
Ok? But this law does more than just allow abortion when the  mother's life is in danger
Lurlur purposely did not mention that Ireland actually already had a law that allows treatment that saves the mother but result/possibly results in the death of unborn. e.g a pregnant woman with cancer get chemotherapy, having an "abortion" during ectopic pregnancy (used quotes because although its ending life of unborn this is only because there is no way of saving the unborn and if nothing is done the fallopean tube will bust and the woman will die.) This law is called "The protection of life during pregnancy act 2013" If it is possible and safe to do so they will deliver the baby in order to give him/her the best chance of survival. interestingly enough it's actually EASIER and SAFER to induce birth rather than perform abortion during late term pregnancy if something with the pregnancy goes wrong. skip to 10.55 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kHNzoZ4oheU
Does that make it less of a victory for women who would otherwise die? We don't know what law will replace the eighth amendment, not yet.
Why do those women have more of a right to life than the children?
In my opinion, because the women already have a life. They will have friends, family, lovers, who all care about them. They have dreams and aspirations. They already survive outside the uterus. They are people. The foetus doesn't have goals yet, it's not self aware. It's own mother doesn't want it. They can't survive outside of the uterus at all. It would be great if no one ever needed an abortion. But that's not the world we live in.
You're comparing human life which has all the potential for those things with a named person already engaging in them. They are both human life, it's just one wasn't physically eradicated when it was in the womb and could continue to live. Considering that life in the womb has that potential if left alone, I would say that the continuum it is on with us necessitates a continuity of certain basic rights. Just one right would do.
I simply disagree. To me, they don't hold the same weight
Which is unfortunately the majority view in my country now. The result of this lack of an absolute view even when it comes to human life is demoralising to say the least.
How do you do you know this? What about the baby's brain is ontologically different from the mother's such that it is not "self-aware"? When does the child become self aware? Your qualification for being alive seems to be self-awareness. Such justifies saying that while we are asleep, we are dead, which is absurd. Edit: I found this interesting.... The prerequisite to the right to life is possessing life in the first place?
Newborn babies lack object permanence. No foetus is planning a transformative novel or ground breaking research. Or even longing to have children of it's own. Foetal brain development is well researched. When it comes right down to it, I believe that the autonomous, living, breathing, dreaming, planning, fearing woman has more of a right to life than her foetus.
No 1 year old is doing any of those things either. Also, why do you need object permanence to be a human/alive? So if someone is incapable of feeling one of these emotions they are not human (likely due to neurological disorder)? Also there is no more of a right or less of a right. You either have a right or you don't. Your criteria for humanity/being alive is pretty absurd. There is nothing ontologically that prevents the baby from having any of those things except for "autonomy". Lacking autonomy pretty much makes severely disabled people nonhuman/not alive in your eyes, as well as elderly people with certain conditions, paralyzed people, people lacking both of their arms or legs, babies who aren't looking to reproduce, babies who have no "goals". Your definition of humanity/being alive is extremely limiting and ableist. I suggest you rethink it lest you epistemologically justify atrocities.
Nah, see, you just extrapolated a few lines from me into a whole ideology. I'm very comfortable with my position of putting the welfare of a woman above a foetus. I was asked why the dreams and goals of a foetus aren't as valid as that of the pregnant person, not whether having these things makes something human. What you're doing is constructing a straw man and I won't tilt at it.

Yes we do, any abortion up to 12 week no questions asked And that's only until the rest of your kind get the 12 week limit dropped
That's the most likely proposed legislation, but it might still change. 12 weeks should be plenty. Second trimester abortions are pretty uncommon, I believe.
Eh, about 40% of abortions happen post 12 weeks in the US
Really? Because the CDC says that 93% of abortions occur within the first 13 weeks in the US.
I was wrong sorry The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that 66 percent of legal abortions occur within the first eight weeks of gestation, and 92 percent are performed within the first 13 weeks. Only 1.2 percent occur at or after 21 weeks (CDC, 2013) 8 weeks
So, 12 weeks should be sufficient. Like I said.

Before this election Ireland already had a law that lets women get life saving treatment even if it sadly means the death of the unborn. It was called The protection of life during pregnancy act 2013. I fully support this act. There is no point in both of them dying. Side point. What a lot of people don't realise (including myself until resently) is late term abortion take 1-2 days to prepare. It is actually safer to induce pregnancy. Here's a video of a Obstetrician Gynaecology talking about https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3jyVmNLAPlA skip to 10:57
And Michelle Harte https://www.google.co.uk/amp/s/www.irishtimes.com/news/health/eighth-amendment-casts-shadow-over-care-for-pregnant-women-1.3454604%3fmode=amp
The once great Ireland Michael Collins fought to build has completed its descent into insanity.
I agree. I don't know why you have negative points.... probably a bunch of people from the vile r/ireland saw it.
Brigading, typical.
Lol those people probably don't even know who he is.
Lol they probably only know Michael Collins because the pro-abortion Liam Neeson played him. Very sad for such a great person be played by someone who doesn't believe in the basic rights that ireland was formed on.

Justice does not take the form of being able to legally eradicate human life without any due process.
To be entitled to due process, you must first have rights, and to have rights, you must be a person.  As only a born human being can be a person, the unborn have no right to due process.
To have rights, you should be considered as being a distinct human life on a continuum with all others. The idea of "personhood" is so arbitrary and contentious even in pro-choice circles that no law could ever be based on it. When I ask people to describe what a person is, they tend to effortlessly describe conditions that should permit us killing all human life in the womb, or any human life dependent on someone else for their existence.
I think personhood should probably take into consideration someone's ability to maintain life outside of a uterus.
This. Exactly. I believe the fetus is a person. However, as a person, he/she doesn’t have a right to use someone else’s bodily fluids without consent. If they refuse, you die. It’s not a complicated issue at all. Hooray for Ireland!
In the US, it’s only persons who have rights, and person is very easy to define -it’s a post born human being.
Well then happy days, an 8 month pregnancy ought to able able to be terminated with no limitations if that is how a person is defined.
Except that US states’s interest in the potentiality of human life empowers them to regulate post-viability abortions.
Which they abandon in its earlier stages despite potential still existing in most meaningful forms. The way they get around this is to abandon the normal meaning of biological viability to mean "capable of surviving outside it's natural environment outside the uterus".
That’s the defintion of viability used in Roe v. Wade.  The Supreme Court defined that term. https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roe_v._Wade What do you take “viability” to mean?
Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roe_v._Wade HelperBot v1.1 /r/HelperBot_ I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 186395
Capable of surviving in its natural environment.


Because people don't agree on that whatsoever. Even within the pro-choice camp.
So how did you feel about the Jews that died in the Holocaust? After all, they were legally declared non-persons in Germany at the time.
There is no doubt that Holocaust was an abomination, but you need to link to a source for this proposition.
Oh wow... We have an actual Holocaust denier here. Okay, I'm through with you troll. I've wasted too much time on you already.
HELLO, I SAID Calling me a Holocaust denier is complete BS.  Provide a source. The persecution of Jews in Europe was based on a denial of their citizenship rights not their personhood.  Now provide a source, and quit your selective reading of my comments.
The Bible claims life begins before conception... this is inaccurate. Science has proven that the foetus feels no pain and is not conscious. The definition of human life is consciousness. There is no suffering. No death. The Bible is simply outdated and wrong. They once believed the sun revolves around the earth, and that the sun was flat. This is a win for human rights activists. Also there is most certainly due process. The medical professionals performing abortions are some of the most qualified professionals. Doctors most studying in excess of 10 years and highly educated. That’s more ‘due process’ than any other profession.... This is a huge stride, for women who either had to travel for an abortion, or were using coat hangers....  high mortality.. or not identifying the problem soon enough, and within the medically accepted period for abortion. The entire process is streamlined now to serve human life.
Usually I would have fun with someone as ignorant as you, but I haven't the strength today at this stage. Needless to say, your definition of human life appears to end when one falls asleep.
Where does science say fetuses feel no pain and aren’t conscious?
Glad you asked. This is good reading. https://www.livescience.com/54774-fetal-pain-anesthesia.html If you have further questions message me, because I’m being blindly downvoted and it’s taking too long to post. It’s hard to educate when people are not willing to read, converse, or open a scientific journal. The Irish laws are not set yet. Even though they voted yes. Often there is a ‘deadline’ for legal abortion.
All you had to do was listen to the pro-repeal side in the Irish debate to hear medical practitioners saying what has been known for decades: the foetus has a early nervous system and responds to stimuli and possibly pain. Not that any of that matters, because the ability to perceive one's death shouldn't be relevant for having their life protected.

You are overthinking it.. but honestly speaking, yes a born dog does have consciousness, intellect, pain response and now legally speaking even more rights than a 20 week old embryo. (and rightfully so) The one is not a person. And the other is a conscious animal full of life. Again.. are you going to try convince us that women’s sterilized egg should have ‘rights’.. that is rediculous. It has no pain receptors. No cognitive function. Honestly.. legally speaking in foreword thinking western countries it’s not a legal person. It has no attributes defining a ‘person’. Next you’re going to tell us that the ‘soul’ is real? If you believe in the 'soul' and want a religious debate.. go on... you can have it if you want. But if you want a scientific debate, you need to start accepting scientific facts by medical profesionals. This is a good read to start understanding the science behind it: https://www.livescience.com/54774-fetal-pain-anesthesia.html
Do you have a source for this?
I see zero sources.
This post is disgusting. Respect life by taking it! Pure idiocy.
Look.. let’s be honest.. the only first world country who still had an archaic abortion law is Ireland... Cyprus even repealed the law banning abortion this year. I mean you are welcome to live in a Muslim country with sharia law, if you believe in religious oppression. Be my guest. But no.. a 20 week embryo, does not even have a developed nervous system. For all intents and purposes it’s nothing more than tissue. And yes.. you don’t take life when women are respected, and afforded proper medical care. Again.. an embryo according to science is not a ‘conscious person’ and has no pain receptors. Honestly to put it bluntly, it has no more life than a fertilized egg.
Ah yes, the personhood argument, the worst of all the arguments, let us begin the semantic dance of who is a person and who isn’t, shall we? I believe if begins with subjective bullshit and ends with eugenics, wonderful, wonderful stuff. Ah yes, the sharia law argument. Let us begin the semantic dance of legislation of morality being open to public voting...because that’s literally what this is, so any Muslim would have just as much a say in a voting referendum as you and I do. Don’t want it? Curb immigration/put a working immigration system in place or outlaw it now. Ah yes, when women are respected. I’ll let my wife know while she beats me with any one of her million purses or her career or whatever else she wants because she’s a fully realized person and nobody aborted her for being a female like what will now happen. Implying people that are pro life don’t respect females? Bigotry in the extreme.
A fertilized egg is a life. You seem to be rather off-target if you aim to convince pro-lifers. Consciousness... pain receptors... both things that do not define a life. People in comas are alive, and there are people who do not feel pain.
Is there a way to be ProLife and not force unwilling women to carry a pregnancy against their human will?
Not when the alternative is having life in the womb physically destroyed.
So by that logic, a cancerous tumor is a life. Tumors and early fetuses are both non-sentient, cell growths inside a human, which grow independently from the host whilst using its resources. Neither are conscious and neither can feel pain. So should we ban chemotherapy and cancer treatments? Because they do the same thing as abortions; remove unwanted growths inside a person, which the person did not consent to.
Except the fertilized egg has a unique genetic makeup while the tumor is just a continuation of the body it exists in.
Cancer cells technically have a different genetic makeup, as they spawn from mutations, leading to slightly different genes. Though cancer cells come from the same genetic background, the same can be said about a human fetus; both have the same genetic background, that being the host's. EDIT: https://www.cancer.net/navigating-cancer-care/cancer-basics/genetics/genetics-cancer
There’s a big differnence between a mutation and a completely new organism. Genetically the fertilized egg is a combination of two other organisms, sharing information from both, while the tumor just contains corrupted information from the host.
While you are right about that, the same logic of protecting a new, separate organism could be applied to parasites like tapeworms and lice. So should we ban removal of these under the guise of "saving lives"? Though at the end of the day, it's really not a matter of what you believe an unborn, non-sentient fetus is. It's a matter of denying women control over their own bodies, in favor of a clump of cells that doesn't even have sentience.
It’s not just a parasite like a worm, it is a human being. Sentience or not it is a human life that deserves to continue living. Sentience is not a benchmark for human life, people in comas still deserve to live if there’s a chance they can regain consciousness. Heartbeat isn’t even a benchmark for human life, there are people who live with artificial heart pumps/pacemakers. It is a human life and it is worth saving by virtue of its very existence.
Right because doing what Europe does works out so well historically.
''Now your turn America to respect life, and human rights'' How ironic...
Yep ironic how you let women die doing illegal abortions. Ironic, how you wont change the 2nd that kills more people in America than some active warzones. Planned parenthoud is the way to go. A 20 month embryo does not even have a developed central nervous system. Incapable of pain, thought, or any human characteristic.
I've been through enough debates with your kind of people. Do not bother me further, you immoral scum
Fuck off, you'll never take my guns.

As the Ireland vote indicates, the trend is toward greater acceptance of abortion rights, not less.  If Roe is overturned, try to anticipate the outcry.  You won’t ever again see such a consummate domination of American politics by the left until Roe is restored, with possibly an enlargement of abortion rights.  Be careful what you wish for.
The US is evenly split pro-life and pro-choice That's clearly not the care in Ireland.
79% believe abortion should be legal in some or all circumstances in the US
Fuck me. This is so damn depressing.
I understand why some may find that to be the case.  I see this stastistic less as a statement on the morality of abortion, and more as signifying that a government that criminalizes abortion oversteps its bounds

Good!  Link to a source and make an argument.
http://news.gallup.com/poll/1576/abortion.aspx Sorry it's closer to 70
where do you see 70%? make your argument

Username checks out.
be careful. you might have an unplanned pregnancy and need an abortion.
/u/Ifpod
I think it should be legal if the mother's life is in danger too
Yeah but abortion is legal here. If it weren't legal, a whole lot more people would start caring.
Trump got elected despite promising to appoint justices that would overturn Roe. This would never have happened if Americans strongly push back against the idea of Roe being overturned, Hillary would have won in a landslide.
The scenario you are discussing assumes an election cycle where Roe is the law of the land.  My scenario assumes the opposite.  If you are trying to refute my point, your argument fails to do so for that reason alone. In contrast, no one thought Roe was in danger because the polls generally favored Clinton to win.  In addition, Roe has withstood 45 years of challenges despite the fact that the majority of Supreme Court justices sitting on the Court during that period were nominated by Republican (and presumably, more conservative) presidents.  Should Roe ever overturn, you should expect Americans to vote quite differently because they will see the election as the means to restoring a vital fundamental right that had been taken away from them.
If Roe is overturned, abortion will still be legal in the majority of states. The only states where it would be illegal are conservative states where majorities oppose abortion. Now maybe they will change their mind if abortion becomes illegal in their state, but they wouldn't need to restore Roe to make it legal. They could elect legislators that would legalize it.
If Roe is overturned on the basis that the unborn have the right to life, abortion will be unconstitutional and illegal nationwide.
Pretty much every state with a Republican government then. 28 states in total.
Guttmacher predicts 18. One scholar (Paul Linton) who has studied abortion regulation predicts that no more than 11, and possibly as few as 8, would actually have enforceable bans on abortion immediately following Roe. This is because more than two thirds of states repealed their pre-Roe bans. Also, even Mississippi wouldn't be able to enforce an abortion ban after Roe because their state constitution recognized a right to abortion in 1998. Of course all this could change as states make new laws following Roe, but that's just the immediate effects of what would happen if Roe were to go.
There is nothing they can do besides what every pro-life movement does: try to limit the number of pregnancies that end needlessly in this barbaric act.
Have you noticed how well the left has made our view "unacceptable" the fix to this madness is to finally treat pro-choice people like what they are, Nazis, and then work on destroying them as they do to us
When you say things like this, it's not difficult to feel morally superior :/ What pro life people should do is advocate for better sex education, better availability of birth control, and better rights for parental leave and child care. That would decrease the number of abortions.
Please, POTUS offered PP an increase in funding if they stopped offering abortions. They refused to take it. You make it sound like the left is arguing this in good faith
Abortions are an important part of health care. I'm talking about reducing the number that occur, not getting rid of them completely.PP are not the sole providers of birth control and sex education. Offering them an infinite amount of money wouldn't solve the root problem.
Are you serious right now? Don't tell me you've never heard of an FQHC: "FQHCs are community-based health care providers that receive funds from the HRSA Health Center Program to provide primary care services in underserved areas. They must meet a stringent set of requirements, including providing care on a sliding fee scale based on ability to pay and operating under a governing board that includes patients." With more than 10x the number of clinics, it seems obvious to me that shifting PP's funding elsewhere (you know, to people who ONLY prevent abortions and don't also perform abortions) would be easy.
No I haven't. Because I'm not American. And I believe that abortion should be available.
Why do you believe abortion should be available?
Because I prioritise the welfare of the pregnant person over that of a foetus that can not survive outside of the uterus.

It seems that your comment contains 1 or more links that are hard to tap for mobile users. I will extend those so they're easier for our sausage fingers to click! Here is link number 1 - Previous text "10x" Please PM /u/eganwall with issues or feedback! | Delete
Good bot
Thank you, SarcasticAce, for voting on FatFingerHelperBot. This bot wants to find the best and worst bots on Reddit. You can view results here. Even if I don't reply to your comment, I'm still listening for votes. Check the webpage to see if your vote registered!
Why? Outside of Rape & Mother's life, you got yourself into your situation. Why should someone else pay the price
Because you can take every precaution and still end up with a pregnancy. Pregnancy shouldn't be seen as a punishment for sex.
It's not a punishment. You can take every precaution and still meet in a car accident. You don't get to shoot the cop who has to ticket you
Why do you get ticketed if you did everything right?

Even if the accident was your fault, you’re not required to donate a kidney to the person you maimed. Abortion will remain legal and become more popular around the world in the upcoming years.

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Godwin's_law
Genocide of a persecuted population that has little to no voice to defend themselves
That’s not even a sentence.  Please edit your comment and turn it into a sentence.

It matters because an argument requires more than the identification of a referent.  It requires complete thoughts expressed in sentences.

Lest Trumpologist be misunderstood, give him/her a chance to clarify.
They can't be destroyed. They reflect a reality of the human condition that can only be suppressed by the society upholding certain moral absolutes, but never actually destroyed. Once absolutes involving human life are removed the unborn will just be permanently subjected to the spirit of the age: individualism taken to the extreme that not even our own flesh and blood should be able to get in the way of what we want for ourselves.
to what moral absolutes do you refer?

Can you be more specific?  State the principle that constitutes the moral absolute.

Does a death row murderer about to be executed have an intrinsic right to life?


I'm the user you asked. The principle is that intrinsic value can be recognised in human life in its early stages due to the uniqueness of it from the outset, and that its potential to develop into what you would consider a person if left alone necessitates extending to it a right to life that is inalienable as the right you have.

Probably “Thou shalt not kill.” for starters.
Shalt thou kill in self-defense?

In that case, “Thou shalt not kill” is not a moral absolute.


I'm not happy, but I understand why it's happening. Perhaps it is for the best. It didn't take long at all with liberalism and secularism for W. Europe to commit suicide.

This is horrible. Micah Pickering survived at 22 weeks. It's cruel to leave a baby to just die without even bothering to try. Also let's say that the baby for definite was going to die shouldn't the doctor treat the baby and make sure the baby is comfortable and ease the pain? Very sad. I hope the doctor get criminalised for medical neglience. It's not even that they made a mistake like most medical neglience they actively deceiding to stand by and are waiting and watching the 2 babies die. Horrific.
I'm no wearing my pro-choice hat for this comment.  I've taken care of plenty of wanted pregnancies that delivered in the periviable period, including of twins. There is no comfort we have to provide by taking the newborn off of its mothers chest, sticking needles in it, and running medications.  There is no intervention that would improve this brief life. Yes. You do not know what you are talking about.  Which is fine, there are plenty of things where I don't know what I'm talking about. Every hospital that I've worked at has guidelines for what gestational age they will offer intervention at, and what gestational age they will automatically intervene at.  Most of what I've seen is offer at 23 weeks 0 days, and automatically intervene at 25 weeks 0 days. So this is standard of care, and you think they should go to jail for it. Medicine is not a monolith, gestational age dating is not perfect, and pregnancies are different.  See my other comment.
If the doctors knew something the mother didn't that factored in they could have explained rather than giving her the run around and saying "stillborn" while her living, crying kids are dying in front of her, and coldly saying "case closed" without further explanation after. By not offering adequate explanation in difficult and emotional cases like this they open themselves up to charges of not having one. They still haven't offered one other than the birth timing, and that explanation doesn't hold up.
The statement you are making is very different from the one I replied to.  Could this case have had better communication?  Absolutely.  Any case that leaves a reasonable patient upset with their medical team could have used better management or better communication.
I don't have to wear my pro-choice hat to get annoyed at this post. You have two theories here: On the one hand, it's possible that the NICU doctors, who went to medical school for four years, did residency for four years, went to fellowship for four years, and bust their butts daily trying to get premies to survive, knew that these premies wouldn't make it.  NICU doctors are smart -- way smarter than I am.  I get to remember one dose for medication.  They're adjusting dose by weight and managing blood gases and electrolytes all day every day.  They could've gone into some cushy specialty and slept through the night, but instead they became neonatologists and see incredibly sad cases and keep coming in to work long hours trying to make these fragile bodies into something a parent can take home and teach how to talk. So it's possible that, with their experience, they set a reasonable cut-off before which they would not offer intervention (22w5d is actually a little earlier than many hospitals set that cut-off).  It's even possible that they knew some details that you don't that would make the outcomes worse for these premies -- like the fact that they were twins, or the estimated weight, or that they didn't receive steroids prior to delivery.  After enough years' experience, most NICU doctors I know can take one look at a neonate and know whether or not there's any chance with intervention. So that's one theory. The other theory is that some NICU doctor just decided that day that, what, they didn't want to bother?  It didn't seem like the mom wanted intervention enough?  That you know better? Tell me, at what gestational age should it be standard of care to intervene on preterm neonates?  And how did you come to that conclusion?
Tell me, as I too went to med school, residency, and a fellowship, at what point are we taught that we can forecast death without trying any life saving measures? A 22/5+ breathing on his own?  How about some surfactant? How about intubation? How about not breaking the policies put in place by the hospital?  We don’t get to play god just because we have education.  Just because 22 weeks meant death 15 years ago doesn’t mean that is the case now.  Get a fucking clue.
I'm not inclined to reply to the remainder of your comment.
I agree that " Just because 22 weeks meant death 15 years ago doesn’t mean that is the case now" but I think TrustedAdult has a point that we don't know what capabilities and knowledge that team has that we don't. And I find it highly unlikely they would refuse to act unless the situation was absolutely hopeless. What do you specialize in if I may ask?
I am a developmental pediatrician. I’ve been present for many premature births. There was no attempt at even assessing these children; much less starting life saving procedures.  They didn’t attempt to gather info to justify withholding care.  Either way, this hospital will be proven guilty with a giant lawsuit that they lose.
I am a plaintiff's lawyer for injury and wrongful death cases. I know dozens of plaintiff's lawyers who would salivate at the prospect of this case walking in the door. We are easily talking about tens of millions of dollars in a judgment against the hospital. This not only reflects poorly on the doctors and hospital from a medical standpoint, but from a fiscal/business standpoint as well. You could build a new hospital with the amount of money that this will cost them if Mom litigates.
Unless you were there, I'm not sure how you can know exactly what happened and, again, what knowledge the healthcare team had that we don't and which may not even be represented in a highly conservative news outlet like pjmedia.
Because I can juxtapose what was on the film with the many births I’ve been part of. You don’t put a baby up on the mother and never assess it. You don’t say that the doc is on the way and then ignore pleas for help from the mother.  Seriously, what COULD they have known that would keep them from a simple APGAR?
The video begins with them putting the child on her chest. It doesn't show the birthing process or the immediate assessment after. We have no idea if they assessed first. You're making a big assumption.
Read the article: ""I pleaded with nurses and other hospital staff to help try to save my babies. I was told they would not survive," Amanda wrote. "I asked if they would at minimum assess the babies after they were born to determine the possibility of survival. I was informed NICU [Natal Intensive Care Unit] would not assess the twins and that the babies would probably be stillborn or at best breathe for a moment." The twins both survived labor, however. As the bereaved mother wrote, Emery "survived for about 45 minutes before passing away without any assistance from hospital staff." Her second son, Elliot, not only breathed but cried. He lived for two and a half hours, while the doctors "did nothing.""
>Tell me, at what gestational age should it be standard of care to intervene on preterm neonates? And how did you come to that conclusion? Why not intervene and attempt to save every patient regardless of gestational age? What is the harm in attempting to save a human life and failing? The only answer that I can come up with at this time is that the attempt would constitute a waste of resources. From such a viewpoint, the resources that would be expended are viewed as being more valuable than the human life that hangs in the balance.
A 19 week fetus is delivered.  What would you do?  Please be specific. While you're answering that, I will answer your questions: Every life will end in death.  Medicine cannot stop that.  Medicine cannot always significantly delay it.  Sometimes, medicine shouldn't delay it.  The value of a life is not measured in its duration.  If I were to have a non-viable neonate, I would want its brief time to be spent on my chest, not receiving futile care.  If I had terminal cancer, I would rather not receive chest compressions and intubation.
The same thing that is done in any other delivery, and the same thing the mother in this case requested of the medical staff. Examine the child rather than making assumptions about viability based on gestational age alone, conduct an assessment based on the examination, and use any resources available in an attempt to preserve the life of the child. Should the attempt fail, so be it.
So would you do chest compressions and intubate? What would you be examining for?
The doctors need to explain the procedures to the Mother ahead of time, present the options and associated risks/benefits, and let her decide on the child's behalf. A doctor should not make a decision on any patient's behalf that no attempt will be made to preserve a patient's life, particularly in the case of a newborn baby, and particularly when there have been other cases of even younger patients (20 weeks, etc.) who survived. Clearly you disagree, which is frightening given your professional background. I hope that you disclose your philosophy to any patients whose lives may depend on your decision whether or not to administer medical care in an emergency. In the absence of such a disclosure, the patient would reasonably assume that any medical professional will render medical care, and it would come as an unwelcome surprise when you decide to merely stand by and watch as they die. Unfortunately I suppose this is what keeps plaintiffs' lawyers in business. As I said earlier in this thread, Mom will be able to build her own hospital with the amount of money she will win in the inevitable lawsuit. I can't conceive of any jury in the US finding no liability for the hospital on these facts, and the damages are astronomical.
Just FYI -- I've never worked in a hospital that offered resuscitation prior to 23 weeks.  This isn't a me thing. I agree with the parts of your comment that fall under "communication is important."
This is a blatant hatred for human life. Those doctors should be in prison.
Letting them die is not nearly in the same boat as actively killing them.   Everyone is going to die at some point.  It's not a hospital's fault when they do.
There's no way in fuck that had a chance at surviving. Not sure what the hell they were expecting from that hospital/trying to do  besides a lawsuit. Doctors do not = god. As a healthcare worker myself I feel for the staff, what a terrible patient. Either these people are severely mentally handicapped / brainwashed and or this is just a sick way to try and sue people.
You’re a healthcare worker?  What a floor tech?  You obviously haven’t ever worked in a NICU.  Further, speaking of not being Gods, they also don’t know if Hess babies were going to die.  They were alive and the mother asked for them to help.  This is where we follow the wishes. Now please resign from whatever crap position you have in our hospitals.
How cynical and arrogant do you have to be to take a video of a distraught mother in a horrible medical situation and a couple of studies showing that sometimes babies born at the same age can survive, and spin in all together into an agenda-driven hit piece on the physicians and hospital staff. What is the author's medical background that qualifies him to say these neonates could have survived and the doctors unreasonably refused to help? Where are the statements from other medical professionals saying this was the wrong thing to do?
I’m sorry, how do you justify that not even an attempt was made?  It’s one thing to try and fail.  It’s another altogether to not try. And in this case, it’s potentially criminally negligent homicide.
I'm not justifying anything, because I don't trust Created Equal to give me an informed, unbiased story. Do you know something extra, like the full details of what really happened in that delivery room, and what kind of assessments the staff did or didn't do? Because throwing around accusations like negligent homicide based on a few seconds of video is ridiculous.
So you don’t like that pro-life people have spread a story about anti-life doctors.  Cool.
I'll take that as a 'no'. I don't like people exploiting a tragedy for their agenda. You might be too busy getting your kicks out of moral outrage to care, but details matter.
Yes.  People who refuse to so much as try to save children literally dying in front of them do make me morally outraged.
Well I'm sure the authors at Created Equal are thrilled to hear that. They've even got a prewritten angry form letter for you to send off to Riverside Hospital to make it easy for you to continue expressing your righteous fury without actually having any clue what happened.

that completely fucked any chance of a no vote

The battle for now is over. Northern Ireland might hold out a bit longer, at best, but with the UK and Ireland now both opening up to the abortion industry, it will only be a while longer before they "get with the times".

Same thing in Ireland. In Ireland it's illegal to own a tv without paying for a TV licsense. Some of this money is then used to fund the government owned RTE tv channel. RTE is biased towards the abortion side. By the way funnily enough I actually know the abortion advocate in the picture. Her name is Jenny Keanne Molloy. She goes to my university, she's absolutely insane. Also the little RQR sign on the corner of the poster stands for "Radical Queers Resist". Their aim to cover up and take down anti-abortion signs. They have a twitter page where they have taken pictures of this. I don't really know what being "queer" has to do with killing babies. Its a massive slap in the face to gay pro-life activists. One time there was a prolife demonstration with pictures of abortion near by The George (a gay bar in dublin whose owners are abortion advocates and many people who go are pro-abortion) The RQR came out (no pun intended lol) with rainbow flags and were "heroically" covering up the pictures of dead babies. I think The George should be renamed to The George Soros
It's a different article, and they didn't word it incorrectly. We're pro-life, they're pro-choice.
I'm struggling to see what the outrage is about honestly.
You're just butthurt lmao
Are you really upset over one small word change?
Not only that but they changed it from biased term to a non biased term. They made it better.
Are they really pro-choice though? Choice is a very broad term? In this particular case it's pro-abortion or anti-abortion.
Um, yes. It's pro choice.

I'm honestly kind of surprised that "no one likes abortion" is still a mantra.
It’s mind numbing when someone says it. It’s especially popular for Christian pro-choicers and I’m just like “there’s only one reason to dislike abortion and it’s ‘cause we’re killing someone ya dummies!”
I know the point here is mostly about addressing the "no one LIKES abortion" falsity, but I wish I could remind this Twitter user that pro-lifers make exceptions to when the mother's life is in danger. Plus, I'd argue the solution to an ectopic pregnancy isn't specifically an abortion. Even though it involves removing the unborn, the goal is to save the mother, not kill the unborn.
Yes, removing an ectopic pregnancy is quite different from an abortion, I agree. It is however a common ploy I see with the pro choice side, that we want women to suffer and die from ectopic pregnancies rupturing and so on and so forth. Or that women who miscarry should be jailed. All sorts of insanity.
The Catholic Church, which has a large role in the prolife movement, limits treatment options for ectopic pregnancies due to its prolife sensibilities. So I’d say it’s fair game.
Source?
They allow for surgical removal of the tube, but not medical therapy with methotrexate. Your Google-fu is as strong as mine, I'm sure.
My Google fu shows you're incorrect http://m.ncregister.com/blog/kschiffer/xxxxwhen-pregnancy-goes-awry-the-moral-ending-to-an-ectopic-pregnancy#.WwmKdMspAwA "The Magisterium has not spoken on this matter specifically, so individuals must make a conscientious and informed decision." A lot of Catholic ethicists are opposed to the use of the chemical method (including the one I quoted) but there is a lot of dissent and the Magisterium is silent. Throwing around "the Church says" incorrectly is just the typical tripe I would expect though.
...right. My statement: Source: https://www.ncbcenter.org/files/1514/4916/3469/NCBCsummFAQ_EctopicPregnancy.pdf National Catholic bioethics center says: My other statement: An unclear "they," I'll admit.  After all, The Church itself... it's more like individual ethics boards at various Catholic hospitals throughout the US. Source: https://www.catholiceducation.org/en/science/ethical-issues/when-pregnancy-goes-awry-ectopic-pregnancies.html Actually, practically speaking, there are Catholic hospitals that don't offer methotrexate. Source: https://www.scpr.org/blogs/health/2016/01/13/18103/some-catholic-hospitals-limit-treatment-for-pregna/ So if your criticism for me is that I didn't cite the correct rank within your club from which this directive arises... that seems like an error on par with calling something "US law" when it's actually state or local law.  So what.  Get your religion out of my healthcare.
A bioethical center is not "the Church." A priest from the society you are quoting presents an argument for double effect (even though he ultimately disagrees with that argument, he leaves it up to interpretation) in the article I posted. It is complex and unclear, but it is easier for you to make a blanket vilification of the Church, as if they are denying women proper care.
Like I said, for those who keep track on which statements come from the magical chair or how fancy the hats of the men making decisions about what healthcare people can and can't get... yes, the distinction is important. A whole bunch of Catholic hospitals are denying women proper care.  It seems pretty clear to me that it's the Church doing that.  But hey, if you think it's a super-important distinction that it's actually just a bunch of the local shamans doing it in the name of the Church, okay.  Score your win.
So I think this goes a little deeper than what is and isn't doctrine of the church... The church position on ectopic pregnancy is that terminating one is a case of double effect, and the way ethical authorities recommend you do so is by surgery, though they leave the door open to individual interpretation. I have the feeling your objections are more rooted in having a bad time at catholic school than patient outcomes. I hope you'll look at the mental health outcomes of parents that never were because of abortion, birth rates in societies that contracept, etc, and that the Lord will soften your heart.
You, presumably, are an educated person who should know better that this.  You misspoke, at least have the courtesy to own up to it and be specific. The doctrine of the Catholic Church is made by the bishops, the Curia, Council decisions and the Pope, not various bioethics centers.  If you're going to claim that the "Church" believes anything, you need to get that straight.  I am not required to believe what a bioethics center believes.
The Church believes nothing, as it is an abstract concept that does not have one set of beliefs. The Church has something that they internally consider their official doctrine.  I am not a member of this Church.  I do not care how fancy the hats are of the men making the decision.  I care that hospitals are being run by people who think that they can't give methotrexate because their god tells them not to.
The Catholic Church is a corporate body in most countries.  It may not be a natural person, but is generally set up on a pretty concrete way.  Of course, it is not as centralized as most people would expect, but I daresay it has a fairly well established position on core principles. Which, of course, you know isn't really the case?  God didn't say anything about such things.  This is an interpretation by those people. And since it is an interpretation, it can be fought on the basis of the internal logic of those beliefs.  You don't need to believe in those views to challenge them on those grounds. In any event, it would certainly work better than edgy comments about mitres.

It is technically an abortion.
I think one thing we pro-lifers should never do js allow the pro-choice side to define the debate by these hard cases- life in danger, rape incest. We should always keep the focus on abortions for convenience.
Patrick: No one likes abortion! Spongebob: https://i.imgur.com/F7XxZew.jpg
Beautiful
"Nobody Likes Abortion"
As if my day wasn’t ruined enough with the referendum. Smh, wish I didn’t have to see this.
What a crazy argument. You are responsible for your decisions, period
Only fringe people believe women should be restricted from life saving procedures during pregnancy. They pretend it’s everyone to make arguing easier.
This is the attitude of every pro choice person I know. It is not about choice, it is delighting in killing. And even acknowledging it is killing but who cares.
Right? Im so sick of pro-choicers telling me that no one really likes abortion. Fuck that. This shit comes up way more often than not.
So either y8ur disingenuous or you've never talked to a pro choicer in your life. Which is It?
Most women I know are very, VERY pro abortion. How great it is and how it is nothing to be ashamed of as it is just a medical procedure or they acknowledge it is a child they just don’t care. How abortion is a great thing for women and necessary somehow as a human rights issue. How we need to change the language about it. Blah blah, Shamefully most of these women are mothers. Apparently if they want they baby then it’s suddenly a life.
They want to have the choice of killing their children but also don’t want to have to feel bad about it.
this phone's battery is at 23% and needs charging! I am a bot. I use OCR to detect battery levels. Sometimes I make mistakes. sorry. ^^info
OP your title makes it hard to take this lost as serious.

Kyrie Eleison
I'm no expert on sampling so I might be overreacting but this seems on face-value to be very concerning. I think I might need to take a social media break if this actually happens, the thought of seeing hundreds of statuses celebrating infanticide makes my skin crawl.
This is essentially a defeat. There is no way that an exit poll is wrong by a >18% margin. edit: Also stay away from /r/Ireland.
Yes voters should be ashamed of themselves. Dark day for the world. I'm a protestant, and I don't mean to provoke Catholics, but how much effort did the Catholic church put into fighting this? I saw some Irish priests talking about it online, but how much groundwork did they do in Ireland? Did they put pressure on politicians and public figures who were pushing for this? Ireland is apparently 78% Catholic, which means many Catholics voted yes, and I can't help but wonder what's going on with the Catholic church over there. Why do so many Catholics there believe abortion is okay? Seems a massive failure of the church to me.
the vast majority of those 78% are nominally Catholic and a lot of them would hold that label as a way of expressing their political commitment to nationalism (the view that Ireland, including the six counties should be free from British rule). Over here Nationalism is equated with Catholicism, Protestantism with Unionism, an equation which is wrong-headed in my opinion as neither religious system implies a commitment to a political ideology. Also, as OP has already mentioned, when it comes to religion itself, the Catholic church is almost resented in the public due to the recent scandals to the extent that priests being very vocal about the referendum probably would have done more harm than good and would have enforced the misguided view that this referendum is about the separation of church and state, when really a human rights issue was what was at stake.
Going on a bit of a tangent here but this study found young Irish (ages 16-29) to be a bit more religious/practicing than I would have guessed. 54% identify as Catholic and 24% of those Catholics attend services at least once a week (15% of all young Irish attend at least once a week). That's really high when compared to the rest of Western Europe.
This question actually came up a couple times on /r/catholicism. The Church in Ireland stayed completely out of it, for one simple reason: had she done otherwise, this would have become a referendum on Catholicism, and the margin would have been closer to 90-10. That's how badly recent clerical misconduct and other scandals have hurt.
Yeah, the yes side were trying to paint themselves as the little guys against the "big evil patriarchy of the church". Even though the yes side literally had everyone on their side like the media, the government, the U.N, the E.U, fucking google, and basically the rest of the western world. But yeah I'd say if the church tried to push a no vote it would only backfire on them and make it an us against them kinda thing.
This is so true. Just saw a tweet celebrating how a "grassroots feminist campaign" defeated the Church and the patriarchy; yet all of the heavy-hitters were for Repeal. Even U2 came out of the woodworks to support abortion. It's really starting to feel like people are living in two different realities now.
I'm Catholic, but we've gone so soft. How could we prioritize "sticking around" but not being able to say what we believe? Truth is the top priority
Has the Pope commented on this? I don't remember reading anything and I didn't see it on his twitter, though I didn't search the whole thing.
Not as much as they have in the past. The Catholic Church in Ireland does not have the same influence today as it did just a few decades ago. Furthermore people are more resentful towards the church because of the recent child exploitation scandal in Ireland, involving the Church. This weakened the Church and they decided not to get involved as much. If this exit poll is correct, however, there really isn't much the Church could do.
The Irish church is what happens when modernists take over. Ireland has suppressed the traditional Mass, Scholastic philosophy, and traditional doctrines of the church. The bishops have refused any order associated with the Traditional Latin Mass and now their seminaries are empty. Irish Catholicism is dead. Might as well retire all her clergy, and return with missionaries.
I think it's more the child sex abuse and laundry house scandals than the type of mass they endorse
That stuff didn't happen on accident. There was a concerted effort by vile men who found positions of power within the Catholic Church to draw-in viler men to do great damage. An interesting read on this is the diary of one such "clergyman," uncovered after he died in an auto accident with the journal on his person.
Just gonna have to point out that if one’s standpoint is ‘Dead babies are bad, let’s keep children and mothers safe’, the Church in Ireland really doesn’t have much of a leg to stand on. Had the Church gotten heavily involved, they’d have been torn to shreds. The pro-life campaign actually had to make some effort to distance themselves from the Church, and emphasise some of the secular arguments and positions on their side. That is how badly the Catholic Church fucked everything up in Ireland.
The vote doesn’t signify that abortion is “okay,” only that the government oversteps it bounds by criminalizing it.
Does the government overstep its bounds when they criminalize murder, theft, rape, etc?
Assuming that “murder” excludes abortion, the answer is no.
Well if the government isn't overstepping its bounds by criminalizing those things, then how is it doing so by criminalizing the murder of countless children?
First of all, in characterizing abortion as “the murder of countless children,” your response completely ignores the qualification with which my comment began.  If you want to have an honest discussion on the topic, don’t ignore my words. Government oversteps its bounds by criminalizing abortion because in so doing, the government deprives women of their fundamental privacy and reproductive rights without due process.
And what did the Anglican communion / other Protestant churches do to fight it? Less than what Catholics did..
In Ireland? Protestantism is tiny by comparison, and doesn't have very much influence.
It still has an influence. I'm an American and prefer Episcopalian  churches and I've never heard anything anti abortion.  I just think it's a joke to criticize Catholics when the Anglican communion in general has done far less  in the abortion debate.
We don't have the power to do anything. My church is very anti-abortion, but we're not in Ireland. A lot of the politicians and public figures in Ireland who were pushing for this, are supposedly Catholic, so this is a failure of the Catholic Church to not keep their flock on the right path.
Ugh.  Ireland, you have let the world down and are less good for this.
This is a dark day.
:'(
Absolutely disgusting
I'm Irish and I voted no today. I'm in no doubt that in 20 years many of the people who voted today to kill off the country's youth will realise the full horror of what they've brought to our island. Shame on the media and Irish politicians.
Many countries have had legalised abortion for longer than 20 years and there hasn't been any 'horror'.
The act of abortion is pretty horrific.
In that case, the horror would be realized tomorrow, not in 20 years as Newman98 suggested.
The trends that coincide with acceptance of abortion tend to take time to fully manifest. Not long now before the incredibly serious problem of population decline confronts us.
Will population decline be an incredibly serious problem in Ireland in 20 years?
No the signs of it will. We have already turned a corner, but the fall below replacement level needs to fall at its current rate for a while longer before alarms bells ring in the mainstream.
So most countries in the European Union allow abortion on demand during the first trimester.  The population of the European Union, however, has been steadily increasing at least for the last 10 years.  Why isn't population decline a problem in the European Union if abortion is legal there?

I took AP calculus.  And I got a 5 on the exam.  None of this discussion concerns calculus. What does the assimilation of immigrants into EU culture have to do with long term immigration rates?

Nothing horrific about millions of dead babies, crushing babies skulls, or burning them alive with saline right? The lack of humanity you people have is astounding.
Horror is a subjective experience.  A woman may experience the horror of her own abortion (IF she finds it horrifying), but she doesn’t experience the horror of the millions of others which may occur.
I think they mean horror as an emotion felt by the majority of living people at the time.
That's a pretty stupid way of thinking about horror, you can use that way of thinking to excuse a lot of excruciatingly horrific things just because: A) The people experiencing it are a minority. B) The people experiencing it aren't alive. C) The majority of people don't have empathy.
You're completely missing the point. Obviously we all here think that abortion is horrific, no one is making excuses. We're just wondering when the general populace is going to wake up to it.
Maybe not in total but as people get older they may realize what happened.  But by then there will be a lot more younger people embracing abortion.
Right.  All the deaths and injuries from botched abortions, to women and kids, all the men who secretly poison their lovers because they can’t stomach having a child, abortion itself which kills a person every time it is successful. Nope.  No horror here.  Move along people, we have news reporters to impress. Y’all are moving backwards towards brutality and a disrespect for humanity.  I looked up to Ireland.  Now, you’re just another backwards country that would rather do the popular thing than the right one.  This was a test and you failed.
Wait do you think men are going around secretly poisoning women in order to kill babies?  Craziest shit I’ve read all day
It’s not secret.  This behavior has been documented for a long time.  And you’d know about that if you weren’t so busy celebrating infanticide.
I am pro-life, nice try. This is a conspiracy theory and a pretty nutty one at that. You are more or less accusing vast amounts of men of murder. Seriously, how is this any different from a blood libel?
Irish women aren't going to be getting a significantly higher number of abortions than they were before, they just went have to travel abroad or risk their health to do it. Giving women access to safe healthcare does not mean there won't be any more babies born. That's absurd
:(
So Ireland can just amend its constitution with a simple-majority referendum? That seems... very dangerous.
I don't believe it's that simple. I think a bill still has to pass though parliament.
Incorrect, the 8th amendment will be repealed tomorrow, and concrete legislation will be implemented allowing unrestrictive access to abortion in Ireland up to 12 weeks.
Ah yes they had a constitutional referendum where the terms of the amendment were set out before the vote. http://www.citizensinformation.ie/en/government_in_ireland/elections_and_referenda/referenda/referenda_introduction.html

Why?
It’s on par with the majority of other countries in Europe with legal access to abortion. There will also be a 3 day cooling off period required between requesting and proceeding with a termination, which is reasonable to me.

I mean, even with just basic reasoning it's pretty obvious there will be.  To say there won't be more is to say that not one person was deterred by them being illegal, and that every single woman who would have gotten an abortion if it were legal got an illegal one.  That's quite a far-fetched claim.
Yes it does. Abortions always increase when they are made legal. But the government will still have a say if she wants an abortion at 13 weeks or later, so the law can still regulate some vaginal activities, apparently.
Why do you think that changing the law from "no" to "up to you!" won't result in more abortions?
Killing an innocent unborn baby in the process - a baby whose body will be destroyed without being given a choice.
*whose
Corrected the typo.
Nah.
Your Baby At 12 Weeks Nothing wrong with tearing a babies little feel off their little body? What type of abortion is used during this stage? Aspiration or Vacuum Aspiration (a.k.a Suction and Curettage):https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9McAyyHC3sk In Aspiration the baby is ripped limp from limb by the abortionist using forceps before being sucked out of the uterus, little tiny hands and feet are then scooped up into jars to verify that all the parts have been removed after the procedure is believed to be completed. The alternative is Vacuum Aspiration which includes using a vacuum (or other form of suction generation) to yank the baby from the uterus while shearing arms and limbs off in the process so that they can be disposed of.
Sounds awesome.  Just rip that little tumor out of there, and maybe use the stem cells for science!
I would encourage you to actually look at the scientific research on this in regard to abortion rates increasing after legalization.https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1508542/
Another study. https://www.guttmacher.org/news-release/2015/women-states-restrictive-abortion-policies-more-likely-others-use-highly-effective
https://www.irishtimes.com/news/irish-rate-of-abortion-lower-than-most-of-eu-1.1053375?mode=amp proof, as they say, is in the pudding.
Also, pretty hypocritical to support abortion for bodily autonomy reasons but only in the 1st trimester, prior to viability. I guess some government regulation of vaginas and uteruses is okay, as long as it occurs at 13+ weeks?
Another study demonstrating causal link between abortion legalization and increase in abortion/decrease in fertility rates. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27285423
As far as comparing countries where abortion is currently legal to currently illegal goes, most countries where abortion is currenrly illegal also don't make contracepti9n accessible, which leads to much higher rates od unplanned pregnancy. Once pregnant with an unplanned pregnancy however, women living in those countries less likely to abort an unplanned pregnancy compared to women living in countries where abortion is legal. http://www.thelancet.com/action/showFullTableImage?tableId=tbl4&pii=S2214109X18300299
Another link between access to abortion and increased abortion rates. https://www.guttmacher.org/journals/psrh/2009/03/abortion-or-pill-access-associated-lower-birthrates-among-minors

How is it reasonable?
Isn't that what pro lifers want to do with roe vs Wade?
No?
Which would be progress and betterment in terms of human rights.  Moving away from supporting human rights is not an equivalent event.
That really depends on whether “human rights” inure to the benefit of the unborn.
They benefit all humans.  So unless you’re trying to claim that humans don’t gestate other humans, I can’t imagine what point you’re trying to make here.
“Human,” as a noun, can refer to organisms that are homo sapiens, but can also refer persons, who are post-born human beings.  At the very least, whether human rights inure to the benefit of the unborn depends on the meaning you adopt.  Why should human rights apply to the unborn?
Tell that to a pregnant 19 year old facing the reality of leaving university and abandoning all their dreams because contraception failed and people like you decided that her life is worth less than that of the foetus.
You clearly have absolutely no faith in women’s ability to do hard things or overcome challenges whatsoever.  Your view is so poisoned by patriarchy that all you can see are shrinking violets and fainting damsels.  Women, of any age, don’t need advocates who think so poorly of them.  I certainly would bounce you to the curb the instant you opened up with this milquetoast defeatism.
Or I'm a woman who understands the reality of life for women in this world.
Disgraceful
There's a post in /r/happycrowds about people going to vote for this, excited about the decision their making. Seeing them so absolutely happy about it is a little sickening. I get they're not excited about killing children but rather the choice to have it heaven forbid it comes to it, but it still makes me sick how happy they are for something like that.
Many bad things happen around the world everyday, but that don't means we should accept them. I will never accept this.
Some you lose. Accept the result; move on. Quite a sound defeat.
Hooray!
Why did this happen?

Well, duh. We believe He's omnipotent. However, that doesn't mean that He must prevent all evil from ever occurring - especially when it comes to evils that we freely choose. Free will is damn important, and God established it to be inviolable. We all have a choice - choose God, or choose not-God. When we reject that which is goodness in itself, we necessarily get evil and suffering. The responsibility of evil is on us, not on God. (If you want to get into why free will is important, I'd recommend this video for starts. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7-hTfkMrET0)
This seems like a really flimsy excuse. No one accuses the police of violating a shooter's free will when they stop his rampage.

Care to elaborate on how exactly it's cowardly or stupid? You can call it whatever you like all day long, but if you want anybody to listen to you, bring some reasons. How do I exist in the 21st century? Maybe you ought to think about that some. By all means, I'm giving things up to be a practicing Catholic - things which might otherwise be quite enjoyable. There are plenty of pleasures that are now off-limits to me, and yet I still voluntarily take these restrictions on. By your reckoning, an ideology as rigid, uncomfortable, and outdated as mine should surely have disappeared by now. And you know what? If I were making a purely secular assessment of the situation, I'd agree with you. So, why does Catholicism still exist? I've got my answer, what's yours?
[removed]
Nice attack. I feel sorry for you. If you wanted to come here for debate on the topic and why you think pro-choice is the right answer or you don't believe in god, go ahead. Going and insulting people personally shows that maybe you probably aren't the progressive tolerant liberal I am sure you believe you are. Also, you came to this subreddit to insult others
...yikes. Go have some fun somewhere dude you sound like a mess.
Well, you still managed to reply anyways - despite the fact that it was a whole 9 minutes (an eternity, I know). I'm really curious, though - what led you to believe that I'm angry right now? Something in my replies? If it's there, I can't find it. I haven't responded with hatred or vitriol, and I haven't insulted you. I don't know if you can say the same. Perhaps you're projecting, I don't really know. All I can say is, you seem to be profoundly bitter. I'm sorry for whatever it was that hurt you so much that you've gone out of your way to provoke people in Reddit comments. I honestly wish you the best, and I'll be keeping you in my prayers. On the off chance you ever do want to talk, my inbox is always open.
What does religion have to do with this? My beliefs on abortion wouldn’t change if I was faithless.
"Don't mind me, guys, just building some strawmans in my back garden to scare away all those religious conservatards." Keep tipping your fedora, my dude.
Well firstly I'm an atheist. Secondly God is not all forgiving and religious people fear for the souls of sinners not just the outcome of their sins.

No it doesn't.
He’s explaining the theology to you. Even if he doesn’t believe it he can still understand the argument.  All he is doing is trying to help you understand how a religious person thinks.
Do you respond to sentences like "Spider-Man can climb walls." with an "Um, actually, Spider-Man can't do anything, because he's a fictional character!"?
Why did you even come here?
[removed]
You're the one going out of your way to try and make other people feel bad, and we are the pathetic ones? If only your mother aborted you.
Now you've gone and given him a talking point. Be charitable, even to our enemies.
You're right. My bad.
Hmmm...and there we are....certainly no hypocrisy there.  HA HA!
You're right. That was wrong of me. If only you're parents hadn't raised a despicable piece of shit.
By that logic, nothing that ever happened was bad.

Well they were once Weeaboos trying to copy Bulma from Dragon Ball
They should have copied Chichi
I'm not Irish, but I'm a devout Catholic and from a strongly Catholic area of Manchester.  I am truly, deeply and honestly hurting tonight from watching the majority of Irish voters turn their back on life.Life is life. Sex is for one thing and one thing only - bringing a life into this world.  I know about the problems of women who are raped and their protection should be taken care of in law - but it should be more rights for the victims, not less for the child inside them.At 12 weeks old, a baby is alive - it has a beating heart, a functioning brain, it's moving. It's a life. sourceI can't believe the number of people I'm seeing who are happy that this has happened. Congratulations Ireland, you just authorised legal murder. I don't know how you can be happy by any means.
I remember my first childs ultrasound at 12 weeks. 3d video. He was bouncing in every direction and rubbing his head in a circular motion. Now he's 5, hyper as hell and twirls his hair. That was a 12 week old person.
Why can't sex be for pleasure?
It's a catholic statement. Sex should only be for bringing a new life to the world. He is wrong. It's not like you care, but Paul states in the Bible that MARRIED couples should have sex regularly and only stop doing it when the couple needs to achieve something together, and even so, for a short while. I would write more, but you didn't ask
Married to someone of the opposite sex of course right?
indeed
Amazing how people still cling to their antiquated book of stories and use it to try and implement legal policy.
I was just explaining to the man what the person who posted was saying. What does abortion have anything to do with it. Are you a pro choice?
Disappointed, but unsurprised.  There is a strong narrative for pro-choice in fashionable circles these days.  It is going to get worse before it gets better. There are the times when people in the future will hopefully be able to say, "I don't even know how those people kept going in the face of all of that opposition, but I'm glad they did." Unfortunately 60+% of that population bought into that narrative, but I am pleased to know that there are still 30% that did not.
Well it’s a good thing it’s not going to affect you in any way isn’t it? The nation has spoken, we are now going to afford women the right to reproductive healthcare in their own country. The only thing I’m ashamed about is that it took this long. And FYI, there is absolutely no brain activity in a 12 week old foetus, so please stop spreading misinformation.
Ethnic cleansing in Africa doesn't affect me either, but that doesn't mean I don't care about it.
Parents beating their children, spousal abuse, and violence against homosexuals doesn't personally affect me either; doesn't mean I'm going to be happy about it. And FYI, the brain begins to form and function in a fetus as early as 7-8 weeks. http://www.urbanchildinstitute.org/why-0-3/baby-and-brain It's a simplified, in-progress version of the brain, of course, but it still controls various movements and reflexes such as the fetal breathing motion (which happens around 9 weeks).

"No significant brain function"... Making a heart beat isn't significant? Gee. That's  new one on me.
Cardiac cells beat in a Petri dish. That's not a brain function.
Earthworms have heartbeats, that doesnt make something significant. And the mother has a fully developed heartbeat, and has a higher right to life than something that doesnt have cognition.
And those in comas have no cognition either. Time to stab some Coma-Victims!/s
Lol because an already born person with a brain injury is the same as an unborn not-even-a-fetus
And if a country passed a law making it leaking to beat homosexuals, you'd be upset about it. Saying "good thing that doesn't affect you" wouldn't be a valid response at all.
Nothing is further from "reproductive healthcare" than murdering a child.
Unfortunately for me, I've seen at close quarters both the failure of two pregnancies around the 12 week mark and the unexpected death of a child at 12 weeks old. I know in my heart that only one of those three incidents involved the death of a child. That experience is what guided me to vote Yes yesterday.
A 12 week old born child is not yet (according to psychological research, etc) self-aware, able to distinguish self from world, etc. It's true that the fetus is not fully developed, but neither is the born child, and they are both lacking many of the same things. Most pro-abortion arguments about the lack of "personhood" cannot account for why a born baby should be protected by full force of the law. Yet we understand that the born child still deserves to live, and we understand why its death is so tragic. In my eyes, if we protect the born child we should protect the unborn one too. Both are living human beings at an early stage of development. They both have most of the same things and lack most of the same things. It's very sad that you had to see that. But I don't think whether we feel a stronger or weaker emotion should determine whether we protect a life. Sometimes we don't feel when we should feel. Sometimes we feel things that get in the way of what is right. We can't always trust our emotions to promote justice. They can fail us.
Can you share what your reasoning is that only one of the three instances to described was a child? In honestly curious.
So you have three children the same age- why is one worthy of mourning while the other two are only undesirables?
she said nothing about desireable or non-desireable.  She said only one was a child.  Don’t twist her words around.

If that's what he meant to say, then that's what he should have said.  He should not have insinuated that she had no desire to bring two of her pregnancies to term.  I thought that language was very insulting. The difference is not merely location; it's location with respect to the womb.

Location does not determine right to life.  Birth status does.


And what do you call it when it's deemed okay to kill another human being for the crime of simply existing? I'm not going to let you run away from the facts.
Before I answer your question, I need a source or two.  First, link to a legal statute that makes mere existence a crime.
Are you denying that abortion legally happens? Or are you implying there's some other crime for which babies are granted the death penalty when they're aborted?
This was your question: Your question implies that there is a law, somewhere, that makes mere existence a crime.  Show me the law.  If you cannot, then your question is invalid because it assumes unsubstantiated propositions. Either link to the law, or withdraw your question.  Choose one or the other.
If that's not the law they were granted the death penalty for violating, what was it? If you want to play this game of "show me the law", then please, show me what literal law they violated that was so heinous it deserved the death penalty. You know I'm not talking about a literal law, but if in your mind a literal law must exist, then I'd like to know what exactly each abortion victim did that was so terrible they deserved to die for their crimes.

Murdering babies is reproductive health care. How low we have fallen. You must learn about fetal development, for your statement is very ignorant. It is not some 'clump of cells' with no brain activity, heartbeat, etcetera. A 12 week old fetus is a tiny human. I really think people who are pro abortion should watch ultrasounds and read about fetal development, as well as what abortion actually does to the baby. Maybe it would change minds.
Take your own advice, please.
My kid was doing things at 12 weeks that he still to this day enjoys choosing to do
What are you talking about?
And
Neither does chattel slavery but it's still proper to oppose. Keep your hands off the unborn, pedo.
Haha, good grief.
What? You believe there should be no restrictions on what's done to a child so long as they're young enough. If 'pedo' isn't apt there, what is?
You’re an insane person.
I'm the one who believes children should be protected from abuse - especially murder and molestation - no matter what their age are, so I think my sanity is quite intact. You're the one who enthusiastically opposes that position, so you're... well. There's a word for it. Starts with a p. p_d_ Would you like to buy a vowel? Anyway, you don't have anything to say, or a convincing way to deny what I said - so I'll simply leave you with that thought. Enjoy.
I don’t argue with idiots, it’s pointless. The 8th has been repealed, and I couldn’t be more proud of my country today.
I mean, thats just not an accurate word to use is it? Do you understand the definition of paedophile? You’re more than entitled to your opinion, and debate is always a good thing when it’s open and fair, but you’ve just ruined any credibility your argument might’ve had. You’re (presumably) not a 12 year old boy at school with his mates... don’t throw the word pedo into your argument where it doesn’t remotely fit.
Shut the fuck up, faggot.
So now we’re breaking out the homophobic slurs?
How about I break out my AR-15?
Lol, Americans.
Alright, we’ve moved on to death threats. Turns out when you stop valuing the lives of the unborn, it’s not too much of a stretch to stop valuing the lives of those you disagree with.
If you value yours, you'll keep your mouth shut.
I'm keeping your comments up so everyone can see what a psycho you are.
You voted against divine positive law.  You have damned your own country.
We’ve damned nothing you brainwashed lunatic, just accept it and move on. Ireland has made history today, and i couldn’t be more proud.
Of course you made history just like how every mass murdering, genocidal regime has made history.
Imagine being this christcucked.
Oh, I accept it.  I shed a tear for Ireland and its people and leave their fate to God's justice.  When the deluge sweeps you away, remember this day.
I don’t believe in god, so your words are meaningless to me.
They won't always be.
I can say with absolute certainty, they will. Religion has no impact on my life and never will.
After your mortal life...eternity with the consequences of your choices.  Good luck.
Thank you for your concern, although I think I’ll die happy knowing I lived my life on my own terms, and not abiding by the rules of an imaginary deity. I don’t need luck, because when I die I will cease to exist and my body will be buried in the ground, and that will be it.
Sure you will.
Should religious beliefs dictate civil and criminal law?
I'm a bot, bleep, bloop. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit: [/r/drama] REEEEEEs abound in r/prolife as one godless baby-eater DARES goes against the "MUH BABBIEZ" holyjerk.  If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads. (Info / ^Contact)

So... do all islands that were populated before the advent of monotheism qualify for this rule?
Nice racism, bro. I'm now pro-abort thanks to your racism against the Irish.
“Someone was mean, so therefore REEEEALITY has changed”
Here a pretty baby liesSung asleep with lullabies:Pray be silent, and not stirTh' easy earth that covers her.~ Robert Herrick
I thought this was a good poem for the sad events that have transpired today.
Someone I know shared this video on social media and I’d like to give them my thoughts on it. Any suggestions?Brief backstory: a pro-life video was explaining the SLED argument and eventually came to the conclusion that pro-choicers engage in unjust discrimination because many reasons for excluding the unborn from personhood are morally irrelevant (or something like that). Then a pro-choice channel made a response to it where they addressed these claims and argued that we are actually the discriminatory ones.
So the guy in the video says that self-awareness is the determining factor, in deciding whether an individual human being is a "person." He then says that if the human being is not self-aware, then killing them is not "taking anything it values" away from them - so it's acceptable. My response: So we can kill infants? So you can kill me while I'm sleeping?
This is Peter Singer's view. He is a very prominent philosopher to our time. He says that killing infants should be allowed until approximately the second birthday which is when self awareness has been shown to begin. Quite frankly, I think this is the only logically consistent view where abortion is morally acceptable. I find it erroneous, disgusting, and abhorrent, but I respect the intellectual honesty of it. Regarding sleeping or otherwise unconscious people, he addresses this by saying that they have an immediate or functionally immediate ability to regain self awareness, which is as valuable as actual self awareness, or something to that effect. I think that this is a weak defeater at best, and the biggest argument against his view if you concede the idea of taking away something of value, which I also don't think the pro-lifer has to do.
Very weak.  I absolutely do not value my life during a dreamless sleep. So, according to his view, it's morally permissible to kill me.
Philosophically, the reason I think it is weak is that I think the defeater actually changes the core of the argument, so it's a moving the goalposts fallacy. The argument is that murder is wrong because it takes away something of value from the person killed. So you can only murder someone who values their own life. But with the defeater we have to change the argument to say that murder is wrong because it potentially takes away something of value from the person killed. If we change the argument in this way, then the entire debate is about how real that potentiality is, since the potentiality of self awareness is the standard for personhood. This is effectively the same argument we have already about whether the unborn are persons or not, so the idea that self-awareness if the standard for personhood is self-defeating, or at least unhelpful, in my view.
The only consistent pro choice argument. It's also batshit insane.
Sounds like a textbook example of moving the goalposts. "Oh, sleeping people don't count because [some extremely arbitrary guideline that just happens to include sleeping people and not the unborn]." EDIT: Oops! I see you already posted as much below.
Can you link the other video?
Here it is.
Thank you.


Unfortunately we all know how it will turn out. Today's society is increasingly corrupt of all morals.
Couldn't Agree More...

If you understand the pro-life position you will understand it is a literal life-and-death decision for millions of lives. If you're here to observe people that think differently than you, than welcome, but do so silently unless you have something constructive to add.

Uhhhh yeah might wanna provide a citation if you're going to make absurd claims such as this one So yeah... not at all what you're saying. Oh, and by the way, the vast majority of abortions are not because the mother needed one and would die without one, or even because of rape. The majority of abortions are elective.
Your just missing the point, we believe that abortion is literally murder.
We understand 'you' believe that. But 'we' believe something else. So don't interfere in our lives, we won't interfere in yours, and respect the democratic process. You don't have domain over the children of others. The main point of contention is that we believe the ultimate authority on this decision should be either the state or "god"(which many people don't even believe in). We believe that the ultimate authority on this decision should be the parents or at least the woman. However, if you can convince enough people that your position is the correct one, than more power to you. I believe the evidence suggests your belief is getting less and less support. If Catholic Ireland can reject your narrow religious supremacist arguments by such a huge margin, than it is inevitable for it to happen everywhere else.
You seem very confused considering none of them said anything about trying to overthrow democracy or something.  They were rooting for a result of a democratic vote and said they were disappointed it didn't go the way they'd hoped, that's it.  If you think that's somehow at odds with "respecting the democratic process" then you lack the vocabulary to know what that phrase means.  You're somehow managing to whine about winning, which is very strange indeed.
Yes we do have domain over others children when their parents are trying to literally kill them.
Really? Then how come people are having abortions? If you have domain why can't you prevent it? Seems you do not have domain. I think what you wanted to say was "you want to have to domain". Dream on. The enlightenment dealt with the initial stages of these debates, and the future will continue dealing with it until these problems no longer exist because no people that support them exist anymore (like dinosaurs).
We did do something to prevent it. Like pushing to overturn roe v wade, supporting defunding planned parenthood, and voting for pro-lifers. This law was doing something to prevent abortion.

All debate aside. My point remains that it is a decision of death for millions of living beings.  Not a game for one side to win or lose--we are all the same side.

I said all debates aside because you are not open for discussion, you are attacking (otherwise you would have looked it up from one of the many sidebar resources). Outside of pro-life vs pro-choice, it is reasonable for one side to lament a policy being passed given the current context and expressing sadness that millions more lives will be lost is also indeed reasonable.
Can you please explain in a logically consistent way how this argument could not be made for infanticide? You seem to be suggesting that if the majority disagrees with you about anything, that you should just drop it. Did you know that marital rape wasn't even illegal till the 90's? The majority of people thought it should not be illegal. If you support any laws, aren't you by definition forcing other people to live by your belief system even if they disagree with it?
So you acknowledge that abortion is about life or death and you still support it? That's pretty evil man. I don't even know why you're here. Are you just itching for an argument?
I do not believe it is settled when exactly life starts, HOWEVER, just for the sake of argument, let's assume I agree with your definition of life and death (which I don't). Even if life began when you say it did, it still would not justify banning abortion in my view because there are a whole host of scenarios where I would very confidently believe a woman should have the right to decide to terminate the pregnancy of a child which modern science (which conservatives hates) has concluded will not live, and also threaten the life of the mother. Anyways. The important thing is that you can have your beliefs, just respect the democratic process and don't force your beliefs onto others. This way you can slowly watch your position erode away generation after generation, until your position no longer exists.
Yeah, conservatives sure do hate science. If only they were as scientific as liberals. You know, people that believe biology doesnt matter, the only thing that matters is how people "identify". Or how GMOs are awful and unhealthy even though all of agriculture and chemistry says they're fine. Or how a fetus isn't alive until it is out of the mother, even though all of embryology agrees human life starts at conception.
Just curious where you stand on this: would you support a bill that banned abortions, but allowed them in cases of rape, incest, terminal fetal illness, or when the health of the mother is at risk?
I love modern science because modern scientists resoundingly agree that life starts at conception.
If we can't find common ground on the sanctity of life, this argument is pointless. And I will definitely raise my future children pro-life :)

There's a difference between letting someone die naturally and putting a gun to their head and pulling the trigger. We don't support taking the lives of innocent babies. Honestly, I think it's mind-boggling that women are fighting tooth and nail for the "right" to kill their children.
And what exactly is "naturally"? As human beings it is part of of "nature" to embrace science and use it to make rational decisions, as opposed to simply living like we always had 2,000 years ago. Are you seriously telling me that if doctors concluded that a child is going to be born with a serious brain defect which will result in it dying almost immediately after being born, and that giving birth to this child will also threaten the life of the mother, that the mother should go through with this childbirth? You seem to just not want to embrace the benefits of science, the knowledge we gain from it, and the actions we can take based on the knowledge we gain from it.
Listen, my mother was sick with cancer when she was pregnant with me and died shortly after I was born. She wanted to bring me into the world. So yea, it is a decision women make. More importantly, these are fringe cases. The majority of abortions are not done because the mother absolutely needed them and would without a doubt die otherwise. Lol. What a grand assumption to make. I went pro-life because of science. In my early college days, I had an interest in neonatology. It disgusted me to think that some these tiny babies in the NICU could have aborted. A baby isn't less human inside the womb than outside the womb. A baby is human regardless. At the fundamental level, we're going to disagree because you don't see life that way.
Good. I am happy for you. Your mother MADE THAT CHOICE. You see how that works? A human beings makes a choice. Another one makes another choice. Your problem is that you want to force other mothers to make the choice your mother made. What happened to PRO-LIFE NO MATTER WHAT? So what if they are fringe cases? Are fringe cases any less valuable than your case?
Dude, why are you so angry? Still pro-life no matter what. The "mother absolutely needed them and would without a doubt die otherwise" is the entire basis of your argument, not mine. I'm planting my flag at "we shouldn't kill babies" and I'm not moving from it.

If you voted no, then keep your head up. Evil may have won this battle, but you fought on the right side.
Speak for yourself and no one else.
I think you're in the wrong sub. Shouldn't you be over at /r/ireland, or some other left-wing sub, celebrating infanticide with the rest of the degenerates?
Who’s killing infants? A foetus has to be born to be considered an infant. And yes I am celebrating, I am overwhelmingly proud that our country stepped up today in helping the women of Ireland gain access to fundamental healthcare on their own home soil. The people have spoken, deal.
Killing a baby out of convenience is somehow a fundamental healthcare right... truly mind boggling.
What’s truly mind boggling is your absolute ignorance about abortion.
That’s what a majority of abortions are... no one has a problem with a woman having an abortion if her life is at risk, and rape makes up almost a negligible amount of abortions. My simple question is, what is so hard about wearing a condom?
Exit polls are showing that it's likely a landslide win for abortion. Sad. The moral decay of society continues.
Heartbreaking when we as a society say that murdering babies is acceptable, no, a good thing. What  does that say about us? A friend has gone on about how proud she is women have returned to Ireland to vote to murder babies and what a victory this is for women. Why we women believe murder is a fundamental right granted to us is beyond me.
They'll be parading on the streets and celebrating infanticide in Ireland. I've been praying that society would reverse course, but it just seems to get worse and worse. I shudder to think of what sorts of evil will be tolerated and accepted in the coming years.
Abortion has been legal on a nationwide basis since Roe in the United States. What evils have been unleashed since then?
Infanticide becoming accepted and even celebrated. That's a pretty big one. If such a thing as infanticide can become accepted, then what other evils can?
Right and I’m asking in the nearly 50 years of legalized abortion, what other evils have come into fruition?
Uh the murder of millions of people?
I mean sure, but he's asking the person who said that additional evils beyond abortion will now be accepted what they're referring to.
I'm not getting into what I believe to be evils here. It'll just get me downvoted for straying off topic into divisive subjects. Let's just say I'm a fairly devout Christian, and I believe a lot of things to be immoral or evil that you probably don't(abortion, for example). We'll leave it at that for now. My concern is that if infanticide can become accepted, then what else can? How low can we go as a society?
I mean, I don’t downvote for good faith arguments. Reasonable people can disagree on things without decaying into petty internet fights. Though when it comes to abortion it’s definitely not something that should be celebrated or encouraged in my view. I view it as a more complex issue than meets the eye.
600,000 human beings killed per year has been unleashed since Roe v. Wade due to legalized abortion.  I'd say that warrants some concern.
Which is abortion. What other evils have we seen? Legalized pedophilia? Murder? Rape?

Atheist, pro-evolution, pro-secularism, pro-SSM here. And pro-life. It's not a religious nut job thing; it's a human rights thing.
"you're pro-life. Just admit you're a religious conservative already."
What a tired childish point. I know more atheist pro life people than I do supposed Christians who are pro life.
A terrible shame, but not terribly surprising, as the West has been in slow motion implosion and collapse for some time. For all our material prosperity, we are a society of shallow, vapid hedonism, moral stupor, and entrenched egotism, one of the lethal expressions of which is abortion on demand. What is surprising is that Ireland held on for as long as it did against such forces.

The lessons from the article-- Apathy and worldliness can damage the Church far more than persecution. The Church must maintain a moral but not partisan position in the public sphere. The Church needs to win over cultural leaders to her side. In this vote, almost all cultural leaders except priests and bishops were on the other side.
4. The church shouldn’t spend decades abusing children and covering up that abuse. People might then consider them a tad hypocritical.
IMO, the Church needs to bring back the INQUISITION! Yes, put these men on trial. Find them guilty. And then hand them over to the state for a swift execution. This was one purpose of the Inquisition previously, and when it was withdrawn, many people cried out, "But what are we do to about bad priests?!" Indeed, these courts need to return.
There is no question that the Church is shooting itself in the foot here. While the people of Ireland should know better, despite the poor example of the hierarchy in their country, there is no question that the un-Christian actions of the institutional church in Ireland gave the pro-abortion side more ammunition. That said, when dealing with cultural leaders, I would make sure that while the Church is working for leadership converts, that it is remaining true to its mission.  Becoming popular among the Powers that Be is how the Church got in this position to begin with.
That Ireland has a healthy and robust democracy.
Morality is not determined by majority rule
Surely it's better them than the Catholic Church or a similarly small group of nonrepresentative individuals?
I find neither is good for determining morality...
No person or group of people decide what is moral and what is not. Morality is universal. It doesn’t make sense for an act to be ok in one country because some people say so and wrong in another country because those people say so.
you're suggesting the word of God then?
Yes I think ultimately it stems from a higher power, but you don’t have to be a catholic to know that abortion/murder is evil
Who decides who is right when people disagree about morals?
Democratic vote for the right to kill children, and the proletariat rejoices.
Recent referendum results in Ireland has shown that the Catholic Church has finally lost its stranglehold on Irish society. This despicable organisation whose members abused and raped children, who ran the horrifically abusive Magdalene laundries, whose mother and child homes buried the bodies of hundreds of children who died of malnutrition within their walls in a septic tank and who spent decades covering up all of this and protecting the perpetrators, their time is up. Given their long list of despicable crimes, this bunch of hypocrites don't get to moralize to our nation anymore.
Ever heard of secular humanism? Human rights for all human beings? This isn't a religious concept.
No, remember, we're all religious nutjobs who want to force our morality and our rosaries on your ovaries and what else...
Good thing we don't need the catholic church to know you are killing a child in the womb when getting, servicing or advocating for abortion. There are certainly fringe cases where abortion might be something to consider but this vote wasn't about those cases, it's about a disdain for responsibility, the love of self, that ones self is most important facet of existence and any threat to it requires violent defense. It's about disregarding the realities of human physiology in favor of a vague definition of person hood, sentience and awareness that best suites the agenda. The extreme cases deserve discussion and our empathy to try and find a path towards providing as much care and options for those people. However, the woman getting knocked up due to a casual encounter has no excuse that would justify killing their unborn child. It's not a surprise this has happened in Ireland, it's already available in most of the western world, it's just unfortunate how little we care for the unborn and how little concern the average person seems to have for sexual encounters. It goes beyond just allowing abortion, it's an acceptance of a culture of sexual exploration and exploitation that seeks to eliminate the inconvenience of conception and disregards the emotional and physical trauma of casual sex.
That's exactly what the vote was about. Over and over again, the yes campaign made the point that in order to have any change in Ireland's total abortion ban, the eighth needed to be repealed. Stories of couples who had to travel to England to abort a fetus diagnosed with a fatal abnormality featured prominently, along with Savita, who died when denied an abortion to hurry along a miscarriage where the child had no chance of survival. Over and over again, yes campaigners made the point that the "less hard cases" i.e. healthy, wealthy women who simply didn't want a child, were not being denied abortion anyway as they could easily travel for one. Plenty of undecided voters said "I don't feel comfortable with abortion on demand, but I'm leaning yes because I don't want any more women dying due to the eighth."
Savita isn't even a case to bring up here though I can see the pro-abortion side loves bringing up her tragic death. Her baby was already dead thus it would not be an abortion. The hospital was negligent, full stop.
It wasn't dead, it had a heartbeat. That's why they wouldn't act until she got sepsis. The eighth amendment protected a fetus's right to life up until its natural death unless the mother's life was at substantial risk. Sitting the campaign, plenty of other stories have come up of miscarrying women being carefully monitored for infection, because as soon as an infection sets in the danger is high enough for an abortion to legally take place, but until then all doctors can do is wait.
And now the whole country has sunk to that level.  Congratulations! Don't worry, you'll have caught up to the Magdalene laundries in probably less than two or three years in terms of killed children.
What the fuck are you talking about? Some priests diddled some kids, and therefore the unborn should be stripped of legal protection? How does that follow at all?
So you're fine with child molestation?
No, that's not remotely what I said. Child molestation is a problem; my question was how it has any bearing on the topic at hand.
Hitler became German Chancellor in 1933 through a democratic process as well.
He ultimately  became German Chancellor because the Catholic Party voted with the Nazis to pass the Enabling Act. The Nazis party did not gain a majority in the election. They needed the help of the  conservative religious right to get over the line.
Under Weimar law the chancellor wasn't the elected position. That was the presidential office.
Do you deny that the Catholic party voted with the Nazis to pass the Enabling Act? The Act which gave Hitler dictatorial powers.
No. The Zentrum Party voted to pass it because the Reichstag fire was pinned on the KPD, or communist Party. Nearly all non-socialist parties voted to pass it.
So you now are trying to justify the fact that the Catholic Centre Party also voted with the Nazis to pass the Enabling Act. Once you can't deny facts, you switch to justification. I'm done with you now.
Lol what do you even mean? It's historically true. It's not that it was right, but it wasn't because they were catholic.
Still a democratic process.

This is in Wikipedia's article on Priscilla Coleman: Sounds like she made a correlation/causation error. As pro-lifers, we need to be skeptical of studies which support preconceived biases because it's all too easy to overlook false conclusions/bad science, report those findings, and then lose credibility.
Yeah. I never got why people tried to make weird esoteric unrelated arguments about this that make up issues where there aren't any, like insisting that it will raise depression or breast cancer risk, or that pp doesn't follow proper cleanliness procedures or whatever else. If anything, making those arguments shows a lack of confidence in the main one, and being willing to lie about it doesn't help.
I’m very pro-life and I don’t think abortion is good for women. However, I know there have been issues with the reliability/accuracy of Priscilla Coleman studies before, so be careful posting this.
Upvoting for integrity
This study shows actually shows that women with mental health problems are more likely to get an abortion, not the other way around.
Regardless, my comment still applies.
Maybe it because of the stigma and emotional manipulation you guys use on these women that is causing this distress. Hmmmm.

Sometimes women feel forced into it, not every post abortive woman made that choice out of malice.
Most did, they just put themselves first If I got depressed after refusing to give my kidney to save someone (let's use the example the left loves), should you feel bad for me.
Inaction is not the same as action
These women had mental health problems because they got abortons. This study is confusing correlation and causation.
Some of them did willingly kill their kid.  Some of them were mentally ill and killed their kid, and some of them were pressured into it and killed their kid. About the only aborting woman I don't pity is the cold hearted "I'm not using birth control, imma just going to get an abortion" women, and I honestly don't really believe that is a thing except in relatively rare cases.

I'm surprised he didn't lead with "and this is something I came up with on my own for the first time, because I have the best thoughts."
He’s pandering. Nevertheless, he’s not wrong.
Not to diminish Trump being more pro-life in public lately, but I thought this was kinda funny-- Trump: Jeremiah: Lord: "Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you." Reminds me of that episode of The Office where Michael has written on a whiteboard, ""You miss 100% of the shots you don't take. -Wayne Gretzky" -Michael Scott"
“Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you.” — The Prophet Jeremiah — Donald Trump
Can someone tell me if I have this correct? God is saying here that he knew Jeremiah before he was conceived? That Jeremiah was always destined to live the life he lived as god had planned his creation and life?
God knows everything that has or will happen, including Jeremiah and his role in life. The context is and before you were born I consecrated you; I appointed you a prophet to the nations. Meaning, God set Jeremiah apart as a prophet to both Israel and the Gentile nations even while he was an unborn baby.
Or before he existed, no?
Before I formed you in the womb means before he existed, yes. Before you were born means after he was formed, but before he was born.
So how can we conclude that God knows us all before conception, merely on the basis that he knew Jeremiah?
Being omniscient, it’s impossible that God not know something.
except that which God chooses not to know
No, not even that.
why not?
It's simply a logical impossibility that an all-knowing God not know someone that he creates, because then he wouldn't be all-knowing. Married bachelors don't exist.
But God is all powerful, which means he has the power not to know that which he does not care to know.
Your argument doesn't work for as I already explained:

Ummm - so, free will?
Care to clarify your question?
Never mind. If you can't see what the problem is, there's no point
In a first sight, the whole passage is about a special purpose for a specific person - namely, Jeremiah and his role as a prophet. In a certain sense, yes, God had it all in mind. The purpose of that is something like "don't worry, believe Me, I know what I'm doing and what I'll do - just trust Me, I planned everything way before". On the other hand, it doesn't eliminate Jeremiah himself, as if he was just a minuscle pawn on a giant chessboard.
Under His eye.
Praise be.


No Info Wars, please.

That’s really quite sad. But the pro-choicers will instinctively say, “Clearly this wasn’t her choice, so obviously it’s wrong”—ignoring that a human life was just taken.
But abortion is no big deal...right? ...right?
“The only thing wrong here is that nobody asked permission! Otherwise, all is dandy!”
"The only thing wrong with rape is that he didn't ask permission!" Everything makes sense now.....
It's more that he didn't have permission. Which is pretty explicitly the only thing wrong with rape. Otherwise it's just consensual sex. Which is fine.
Permission means nothing, especially if it's under duress. People are coerced into "consenting" for plenty of things. Rape isn't just wrong because it lacks permission, and forced abortion isn't just wrong because it lacks permission.
Yeah, I'm going to have to disagree with you here. Consent doesn't exist if it's coerced. Can you explain why rape is wrong beyond lack of consent?
You can have permission without actual consent. I took issue with the idea that technically having permission is enough to make rape no longer rape. Consent is usually good enough, but permission under duress is not actual consent. For example, if someone broke into my house and said they would kill my children if I didn't leave with them, I'd probably leave with them. Does that make it any less kidnapping even though I agreed to it?
I think you're maybe splitting hairs here. It's not real permission if it's coerced.
Possibly, but permission is what was being commented on, and I don't believe permission and consent are the same thing. It's why when a woman goes in to have an abortion, under pressure from her family and boyfriend, she technically gives the clinic permission to do it. I wouldn't say she was a fully consenting party. It's a pretty clear distinction to me. Maybe that's just me though

Generally speaking you cannot give consent if you are under duress or being coerced. By that definition the lack of consent is literally the only thing that makes rape bad, having sex is fine, having sex with someone when they don't want you to is horrible.
Except when the mother regrets it the next morning and claims rape or aborts the child.
If she decides to lie about being raped she still wasn't raped.
It's sort of rape, but from the (now regretful) woman to the man. And if she aborts the baby, it's also murder. And if the does both, she was the monster all along.
It’s like clipping your fingernails! /s
I force my kids to clip their fingernails. BBC should write an article about it. /s
I clip my son's while he's sleeping! That's even worse!
I think we found the actual monster.
Monster.
I'm calling CPS.
Not even pro choice people say that
I guess I imagined it that whole time I was pro-choice.
Of all the places for someone to be forced into an abortion, I never would have expected Pakistan.
Sadly (Edit: Islamic countries) are actually really high in underground abortions since becoming pregnant before marriage could literally get you killed. Many young girls who do find themselves in this situation feel forced or pressured to abort or else they cod be murdered as an "honor killing". This case however was more extreem where the girl was literally drugged and tied to bed to have her baby forcibly removed form her.
Pakistan is not in the Middle East.
My apologies. I didn't know that. Thank you.
sauce: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Middle_East It's debatable...
Islam allows abortion in the first trimester
So there is less shame in forcibly killing a baby in you daughter's womb, than for your daughter to have a child out of wedlock? This defies all sanity.
Shame only exists if other people know to shame you.  There's less shame in a secret murder than a public pregnancy.

This is stuff that is already being done but should be improved upon.

This post was removed because you have a new account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.

Guerrilla marketing?

These people have done tremendous damage to the 'Save the Eight' campaign by all accounts. Even the head of that campaign has said they've hurt them.

Well said.


I've never heard that reason for not eating eggs. I've seen arguments related to personal health, the environment, and welfare of the chickens that lay the eggs (not the eggs themselves).
I get what the meme is trying to say but yes this bugs me. Store bought eggs are unfertilized so they will never grow into a fully formed chicken. The reason animal rights activists don't eat eggs is because it is supporting the exploitation of an animal, also the living conditions of the laying hens are generally pretty bad so buying eggs just perpetuatrs the mistreatment. I do find it hypocritical when people stand up for animal rights but not human rights.
I can't help but notice that a stupid Congresswoman from TX tried to enact a law about regulating male masturbation. Her arguments are a series of parodies with the condition of a pregnant woman - the old "if aborting a bunch of cells with less that 3 months is murder, then male masturbation is genocide". The "scientifical imprecision" isn't a landmark of pro-lifers here, at least :)
That's idiotic. Was she trolling for a debate iterally thought thought spem cells are the same as an embryo?
Read for yourself: https://www.texastribune.org/2017/03/12/rep-farrar-bill/ https://www.snopes.com/news/2017/03/13/texas-lawmakers-satirical-bill-fine-men-masturbating/
Ah, I see.
Well you know, every human being is just a bunch of cells :)
I haven't heard this one before, but it isn't a baby chicken until the egg is fertilized, just like with humans.
Aw man, look what you've done. You've gotten straw all over the sub.
Reminds me of
I’ve never heard someone say they won’t eat eggs because they’re baby chicks.
The preferred term is “chicken periods” I believe.
No one has ever said this, and it just hurts your case when your spreading false information.
The main argument against eating eggs is not that they are baby chicks. The main concern is first of all, forcing chickens to keep laying eggs, the well beings of the environment, and other reasons. This is a terrible meme. No wonder your side is losing. Lack of creativity.


The title of the article is so inflammatory and lacking in nuance compared to what he actually said.
He is a Catholic cardinal. He is being consistent with the traditional teaching of the Catholic Church-- and There is more and this is just one of many examples: http://www.papalencyclicals.net/Greg16/g16mirar.htm
Glad to see this. Anything can be made into an idol, including freedom. In the secular west people are as a free as a fish freed from the water.
Abortion is really bad. But “suppressed” is a troubling word.
Bit of a misleading headline. The actual quote: "That is, if the society recognizes the kingship of Christ, does that not follow that certain expressions of false religion can and should be suppressed for the preservation of the common good?"
That is not the actual quote of Burke. That is the question someone asked Burke, not what he said.
Great scott you're right. This entire article is just a headline to stir up clickbaits.
That is...almost worse. Should people be excommunicated for supporting abortion?  Yes, absolutely. Should there be legal punishments for practice of religion in ways the state, or a given denomination, doesn’t approve?  No, absolutely. The first amendment wasn’t written for kicks.
How is abortion an expression protected by the first amendment? He isn't using "expression" to mean word or phrase, but rather the product of something.
Abortion isn’t first amendment protected. Supporting abortion is.  You can outlaw actions, not beliefs.
Agreed. I think his quote, in context, says just that.
Well, fair enough.  I’m not reading it that way, but that may just be what I’m seeing.
Burke didn't say "suppressed," the person who asked the question did.
With respect to His Eminence, while I'm a Catholic and agree with his general gist that Catholic values would line up with what is best for people morally, it has been taught that all people of good will can carry out good acts and hold good moral values, even if they are considered imperfect. It will not benefit anyone for us to take action other than demonstrating good works and persuasion to for people to come around on their own to that viewpoint. While I don't think we should compromise our beliefs to simply be ecumenical, I think advocating anything that could be called "suppression" is a wrong turn.  We've seen the danger of that in the past.


Actions do speak louder than words, and I will give Trump one thing: he's almost gleefully taking on the Dems on the abortion question. However, I am concerned that his other... foibles... will take him down and drag the pro-life position down with him.  I honestly will consider it a miracle from Almighty God if he manages to get through his term of office and doesn't cause a serious backlash and major setback for pro-life causes.

PREACH.
Didn't Ed sing the hook for Eminem on River? For a pro-choice dude he sure seems to like pro-life imagery.



First off, killing someone is different than letting someone die. Injecting someone with a drug to euthanize them would be very different than simply pulling the plug and letting them die. Second, there's some level of consent. Either the person previously wrote down their plans, they selected someone to make that choice for them, or maybe the person making the choice simply knows them well enough to know what they'd want.
I don't think abortion is murder because a heart is beating. That's probably a little simplistic. Abortion is murder because it is the unjust killing of a human being. "Pulling the plug" has many circumstances, which some may consider murder and some may not. You also have to define what you mean by "pulling the plug" -- taking someone off a ventilator? Let's say that's what it refers to. Pulling the plug on a 25 year old woman with an exacerbation of myasthenia who is expected to recover in a few days. Pulling the plug on an 84 year old man who had a severe stroke and who was actually DNR but no one was able to check this before intubating him. Pulling the plug on an 81 year old woman who was the unrestrained driver in a serious MVC and has been declared brain-dead. Pulling the plug on a 92 year old man who was struck in the head and has been in a coma but not brain dead for the past month. These are all pretty different circumstances. And many people believe there's a moral difference between killing vs. letting die.
I agree with your first paragraph. The reason I wrote it like that is that someone didn’t understand what I was saying. Then they asked if pulling the plug is murder since a heart stops beating
Im pretty much against it all. I am nooo fun.
We pull the plug when there is no concivable hope for that person to regain his conscious and health. With foetuses and embrios however, you just have to wait for about 9 and in most cases you'll get living and breathing (and crying :D) conscious being. If there were a great chance that the person in coma would regain consciousness in 9 months, no one would have pulled the plug.
Hey, mcmusa, just a quick heads-up:concious is actually spelled conscious. You can remember it by -sc- in the middle.Have a nice day! The parent commenter can reply with 'delete' to delete this comment.
delete
If the person in the coma will wake up in nine months then I think pulling the plug would be murder. Why kill them if they will eventually be independent and take the remaining years from them? Did the person on life support say they wanted to have the plug pulled if they ever ended up dependant on machines? Did the fetus ever say it wanted to be aborted? If the answer is "yes" then no it is not murder as much as assisted suicide.
Yes, 100%.
I'm not pro-life, but I imagine that anti-abortion folks can differentiate between compassionate end-of-life care and decision-making and elective pregnancy termination; the situations surrounding each are different, hence one can have differing moral opinions on each.  They just aren't identical scenarios, you know? That said, I do know that there's a big ol' movement that loves the "from conception to natural death" line and opposes the assisted suicide and the right-to-die campaign, so it wouldn't surprise me if a large number of anti-abortion people fell into that camp as well and would consider "pulling the plug" to be, if not murder, then some flavor of immoral.
I think "the plug" could be seen as simply postponing natural death, so pulling the plug likely wouldn't conflict with "from conception to natural death." However, as you said, they aren't identical scenarios and life support is used in so many different ways that I'm not sure if there is a straight answer for all cases.
True, I do see what you're saying about pulling the plug versus other actions that will nonetheless prevent the prolongation of life- I know the Catholic faith, for instance, puts a big deal on maintaining nutrition and hydration (i.e. feeding tubes, etc.) but not other interventions.
Because they distinguish between ordinary measures of care and extraordinary methods. Everyone needs food and water to survive so denying those would be wrong. The law does the same thing too. A parent must provide ordinary needs to their children (food, hydration) but not necessarily extraordinary (bone marrow transplant, vaccines). Just some simple examples.
From what I see, yes.
Yes, it is murder. But there is a distinction between active and passive. "Pulling the plug" is passive, it's simply not allowing the machine to keep somebody alive anymore, so they succumb to their condition. Abortion is literally slicing a baby to pieces, which is actively killing. And just a note: it isn't murder because the heart is beating, it's murder because it's a human organism with unique DNA seperate from the mother and father. An abortion in the first couple of weeks is as much murder as it is in the third trimester, or after birth.
Hey, theykilledourcreed, just a quick heads-up:seperate is actually spelled separate. You can remember it by -par- in the middle.Have a nice day! The parent commenter can reply with 'delete' to delete this comment.

https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2018/05/22/hhs-announces-proposed-update-to-title-x-family-planning-grant-program.html

Also just wanted to share my experience meeting her. It was after a powerful talk she gave at an event hosted by a local church, and she always greets the audience after all her talks so I got in line. I didn't really know what to say but I knew I really wanted to meet her and at least thank her for sharing her story at so many prominent events to bring awareness to our society (and internationally) about the true nature of abortion. But when I was just a few people away from her, I decided I would keep it light and ask for an exchange of prayer intentions - I would pray that she would meet her "hot Italian husband" (she's still single and joked during her talk that she knew she would end up marrying an Italian someday) if she would pray for my unborn baby (currently 16 weeks pregnant). Wasn't expecting it to be more than a quick exchange but when I finally knelt down beside her to greet her, my preggo hormones took over and I found it difficult to hold back tears while trying to choke out what I was going to say (hence tears in my eyes in this pic), but when I finally did she put her hand on my shoulder and said "of course, I'll pray for you. Let's do it right now!" and she placed her other hand on my belly (after asking me of course). It actually meant a lot to me. She didn't know but I've been battling one UTI after another during this pregnancy and the morning before, my doctor told me that I was at an increased risk for miscarriage. I tried not to worry too much about it and think positively but while Gianna was praying for me, I realized that I was actually really frightened about it and my emotions spilled over. It was a beautiful, empowering woman-to-woman encounter and I was just so surprised that she took that time to pray with me when there were probably at least 100 other people in line behind me waiting to greet her. She was probably there for a long while!
Beautiful!
I always wonder how abortion survivors, many with lifelong complications due to the attempted murder accept the fact that they can not seek justice against the person (abortion doctor) who literally tried to kill them.
Last night, Gianna shared that her birth mother showed up to one of her meet and greets and introduced herself with no prior notice that she would be there, which was very emotionally challenging for Gianna in the moment, but Gianna ended up saying, "Ma'am, I'm a Christian and I forgive you." I imagine she would say the same to the doctor. But I do think it's impossible to use Gianna's attitude of forgiveness to generalize the attitudes of all abortion survivors.
I've seen her speak a few times. Incredible person and a powerful story!
That's amazing!
What does that mean? She survived and the child did not? Were there complications with the pregnancy which forced the abortion?
She was the child that survived. She was born alive during the abortion and (thankfully) a nurse called a hospital and had her transferred to receive proper care instead of letting her die on a cold metal table.
From her wiki page: “[Jessen’s] medical records indicate that she was born in the 30th week of pregnancy to a 17-year-old girl during a failed saline abortion. Jessen's birth certificate is signed by the doctor who was performing the abortion.” Meaning she should have been aborted but the abortion failed (thank God).
Sounds like she was the baby inside her mother and she herself survived the attempted abortion.
She was inside her mother's uterus when the abortion operators (no, I will not call them "doctors") injected a solution of salt and water in the amniotic bag she was in. Normally it produces a severe burning like acid in the baby and she is expelled. Normally the baby is already dead when expelled, but she was alive. According to the Born-Alive Infants Protection Act law, sponsored by Steve Chabot and signed by Bush, a born-alive baby has all this rights warranted - it doesn't matter if the baby was expelled by natural labor, induced labor, C-section, induced  abortion &c. And, well, she is one of the people protected by that law.
A pro life friend of mine sent me a speech she gave to Congress and I was immediately turned off by her multiple religious references and feeling the need to "have Jesus within these walls". When it comes to Theocracy, it's going to be a no from me.
Well to be fair, she had a rough childhood on top of having cerebral palsy due to the procedure and so many people constantly told her she would never amount to anything, so she found strength in a relationship with God and credits her (truly) miraculous life to God's help.
My guess is she probably noticed a pattern in who-felt-what about people like her.
For sure!
Well, I feel sorry for her. I am glad she's found some sort of solace, despite the fact I disagree with her intellectually on literally everything.
I mean...the fact that so many in Congress are fine with mass-slaughter of babies seems to indicate that she isn't wrong. There's a big difference between "we need more Christians in office" and "we need Christianity to be the law of the land." Most, if not all, Christians and even conservatives (and many libertarians too) should want the former. Nobody should want the latter.
I know, right? Can you even IMAGINE having laws against murder, and things of that nature? Christianity has no place in modern society.
Huh?  I am prolife and I am not religious  at all, zero, much less a Christian, and maybe not on the abortion issue, but many atrocities throughout history have been done in the name of Christianity.   Like the genocide of indigenous peoples in many Countries.  That's just naming one thing. Conservatives and especially Libertarians don't exactly "Do What Jesus Would Do" as the saying goes.  They are very selfish and pretty horrible to the poor and less fortunate once they are out of the womb-- and on every other issue other than abortion. So while I am anti-abortion, unfortunately I will never, ever vote for a Republican.
Your position just isn't true. Republicans give more to charity than Democrats. Jesus was about helping the poor. He wasn't about getting the Roman Legions to seize property from the rich and giving it to the poor. Christianity is all about the voluntary actions you do to help others, and that's textbook conservative/libertarian philosophy. "The government shouldn't do X program by robbing Peter to pay Paul" is not "fuck the poor." You can believe in helping the poor while simultaneously being against taxes, social programs, and welfare.
Completely false. This was debunked from a study by MIT. "In this paper, we first show that conservatives and liberals are equally generous in their donation habits. This pattern holds at both the individual and state level, and contradicts the conventional wisdom that partisans differ in their generosity. Second, we show that while levels of giving are roughly equivalent, liberals are much more likely to donate to secular organizations, and conservatives are more likely to donate to religious causes, especially their own congregation." https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2148033 However, there is another issue to address which is: what to count as charity? All of these studies use the IRS definition of "charity" rather than the general and popular usage of charity. Most "charity" conservatives give is in the form of tithes to their church. The vast majority of that money goes to salaries and building expenses -- for people and buildings that provide the giver with services. A tiny, miniscule fraction goes to the poor and needy. "a 2007 study by Indiana University found that only 10% to 25% of church donations end up being spent on social welfare purposes, of which assistance to the poor is only a subset. In other words, if you think of "giving" as "giving to the poor," a lot of the money donated by conservatives may be missing the target." https://philanthropy.iupui.edu/files/research/giving_focused_on_meeting_needs_of_the_poor_july_2007.pdf So, in actuality, it seems that liberals give quite a bit more to actual charity than conservatives. Oh, okay. So I am sure you really against conservative states being welfare dependent right? http://www.businessinsider.com/red-states-are-welfare-queens-2011-8 http://www.businessinsider.com/red-states-more-dependent-on-federal-government-2015-7
Showing hostility to Christianity in prolife circles is not a smart thing to do. Lighten up.
It is what it is. I’d prefer someone be upfront with their feelings so it can be discussed and understood.
You're only saying that. Doubtless there are ways of following that train of thought that would cross the line for you.
I think hostility to modern right-wing Christianity is just what the pro-life movement needs, frankly. Stopping on-demand abortion isn't going to be accomplished by kowtowing to the group that elected people like Trump.
Don't confuse Trump for Christianity. His election has more to do with economic factors, and cultural ones after that. He lost the primaries in several predominately Evangelical states. And as much as I dislike him, at least he's making movements toward defunding Planned Parenthood. Anyway, the main point is that hostility for Christianity, which has been the driving force of not only the prolife movement, but even the abolition movement before that, is to mistake who your opponents really are.
Because, well, being called a "half basket of deplorables" is really a good reason to vote in someone! Yes, being a p***y to be grabbed isn't a good reason either. But, focusing on the pro-life issue, do you think a vote for a known abortion apologist would be good?
Change all refs to Christrian myths to "Flying Spaghetty Ctulhu" and be fine.

We were discussing a citizen's initiative in Oregon that aims to prohibit state tax dollars from funding abortions. Currently they do, and over the past 14 fiscal years, $23.8 million have funded over 50,000 abortions.
What about care after the children are born though? It costs $26,000 a year per child in the foster care system (in Oregon). That times the 50,000 abortions is $1.3 billion.... I think the most logical thing to do is provide vetter/easier/cheaper access to contraceptive care.  An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
Diapers, formula, parenting classes and counseling aren't care after the children are born?  And is contraception not already universally and readily available through most state health insurances? It is through Oregon Health Plan. But let's say for argument's sake that it WILL be more expensive to the state in the long run to fund organizations/initiatives that focus more on providing resources for families postpartum, isn't that still better than state funding of the killing of unborn human people? Again, the biggest issue (for me at least) is not necessarily where the money would go otherwise or how much more would be spent - it's that my money is directly funding the killing of innocent human beings and that I don't have a choice in the matter even though I am against abortion.
No, contraception isn't universally available on most state insurance plans, often for the same reasons why you do not want to fund places that provide abortions (and also many other necessary healthcare services for the underprivileged). And those are all fine and dandy, but what happens to the single mothers who cannot afford to work and have childcare? One of my coworkers literally spends 95% of her salary on part time child care for her 6 year old son. And I get that your biggest issue is having the child born, but what are you doing to help these children after they are born? Do you sponsor underprivleged children and families with a percentage of your income? And how many children have you fostered or are currently fostering or adopted? There are an average of 8,000 a day in Oregon and while all aren't up for adoption every day, they still need places to live and people to love them. The two biggest things that help contribute to lowering the number of abortions are access to contraceptives and comprehensive sex education. And don't get me wrong, I would much rather have free access to contraceptives and actual sex education but that isn't the reality of what is happening.
Actually I do. I'm currently paying the rent and childcare for a friend who is raising her (almost aborted) baby as a single mom because her abusive (soon to be ex) husband refuses to pay for anything. I definitely know how expensive childcare is. But again, for argument's sake, what if I were actually a terrible person and refused to help pay for anything for my friend - would that have made abortion a good solution? Would it have magically turned abortion into anything other than killing an innocent human?
Oh wow thats brilliant. I do find it funny that once you said this murppie then is stuck and goes "well........that doesnt count" lol Your right i can't stand this nonsense of "If you don't give charity then I get to kill this baby." Imagine if pro-choicers applied this logic to the homeless or to born babies that were in poor families!  :o
I have to give credit to Trent Horn for that particular point. His pro-life apologetics book is absolutely fantastic and I reference it frequently.

They’re literally doing exactly the thing you demanded they do and that isn’t good enough.  You will never be satisfied, will you? Nobody’s demonizing anyone.  I want you to pay very close attention to my next paragraph because it is what pro-life people really believe about abortion. Abortion kills human beings.  Who are valid people.  Whose deaths are just as tragic as if you were to die. This is not an exaggeration, a statement for the sake of drama, an attempt to make anyone feel guilty, or an attempt to call anyone evil.  That’s our main point.  That’s what we really think.  We don’t say this for the sake of “demonizing,” we say because it’s true and we see that.  And so that there’s no confusion, I said “you” because I really want to bring this on to a level where it hits home.  My desire is that you live a long healthy life in which you never misunderstand the pro-life position again.  I’m not even trying to convince you of anything, right here.  Just get you to recognize the argument being made. We don’t say human beings are killed in abortions to demonize.  We say it because that’s what abortion does.
You think a the individual taxpayer who doesn't fund enough healthcare in their state to pay for a teen's stem cell transplant should be morally and legally held at equivalent fault as a man who stabs a teen to death with a knife?
You feel that life is life, which I agree and respect. I feel this article is an excellent example of the point I was trying to make about the inaction of healthcare. 24 year old kid died because he couldn't go to the dentist. Not stem cells. Not heart transplants. Nothing crazy, he couldn't afford the dentist. Or maybe the 12-year old in there who died because his family was uninsured and they had lost their Medicaid. Shouldn't you be morally outraged for a 12 year old kid? Or did he deserve to die? https://abcnews.go.com/Health/insurance-24-year-dies-toothache/story?id=14438171
Ok, so you think the individual taxpayer who doesn't fund enough Medicaid should be morally and legally held at equivalent fault as a many who stabs a 12 year old to death?
So lives matter more or less depending on how the person dies? Or is it if it's more or less intentional or neglectful?  Isn't the child of an addict who is passed out and the child dies in a hot car just as great a loss of life as the child who gets stabbed?  Because what you are arguing is that the one who gets stabbed is worse and the one who died from neglect should be overlooked.

I don't think it's straying from the topic - I view abortion as killing a human being and therefore do not want my tax money funding it, regardless of how the money is used alternatively (assuming it is not used in some other way to kill other human beings). I don't think the phrase killing an innocent human is demonizing anyone, in fact I have specifically been avoiding using the phrase "murder" because I think that demonizes the people involved more. But to address your concerns with those born into poverty/awful life circumstances - I am not unconcerned with these issues. They need to be addressed on multiple fronts (government funded orgs/initiatives, education, non-profit orgs, direct intervention from concerned citizens...etc), but I don't think these issues need to be pitted against the issue of abortion, as if we cannot focus on one without disregarding another. I am against abortion just as much as I am against cyclical poverty, rape/incest, and abuse. I'm sorry if I made my stance on those issues unclear while speaking about my disagreement with taxpayer funded abortion.
No, you didn't make your positions unclear. But you clearly just downplayed the killing of the those humans. I understand your viewpoint that you do not want to fund places where abortions would be offered because of your specific views. However, far too often the issue of abortion is linked to the other issues.  When you are talking that 75% of abortions go to women who are at-risk of one or more of the other factors, being pro-birth is actually more detrimental even going as far as to promote the cycle of poverty, rape, incest, ect.
Downplayed? How so? And killing of what human beings?
Downplayed by ignoring a fairly obvious link between the overwhelming number of women who get abortions and are affected by poverty, rape, incest, lack of healthcare, ect. Its akin to saying you don't want leaves in your pool but having a forest surrounding it. And I'm talking about the killing of millions of humans who are already alive through not taking care of them. At the end of the day, I do not expect either of us to change our position on this. I imagine yours is probably religiously linked (which is great, Catholic here), but I do feel it's important to holistically look at what's happening with abortions and WHY things are happening. If we can get closer to the root of the why and do more to address cyclical causes and do more in terms of education (and not abstinence only education which is truly detrimental) and providing access to contraception that is as easily acquired as viagra I am certain you would see a large decline of abortions.

As if anything this person is actually doing would ever be enough for you to go "oh, ok, then you're free to be against abortion!" Drop the bullshit.
I wanted to respond to you because I think you’re making great arguments and I agree with much of what you say here.  I agree contraception should be regularly available. If a baby doesn’t come into the equation, then both sides will be satisfied.  We know people are going to have sex, lets make it the safest sex possible and we can reduce abortions that way.  Sex education is a must with all the sex-charged messages going around these days. There are 13-year-olds having sex without understanding what the consequences can be and it’s so sad. My family is always happy to financially support women’s shelters, resources for new mothers, etc. Unfortunately with adoption, older children are not usually what an adoptive family is looking for. The waiting list for babies in the US is long.  A mother would not have to care for her child herself, it’s not a sentence to 18 years of labor, she has that choice.  I hope to foster and adopt an older child once I’ve had a child or two of my own. It’s one of my dreams to give those children love and support.  I don’t speak for everyone, but I definitely think that thinking about post-birth issues is necessary.  The whole “only pro birth” view is really harmful to the pro life movement, but luckily it’s only a small bunch that thinks that way. Edit: forgot to add lol, if it wasn’t obvious I am pro life. I really appreciate hearing different views and having the chance to discuss matters maturely in this sub, another reason I wanted to respond to you.  And sorry if there are any mistakes, on mobile
*starts slow clap People just don't get it. "It's MY choice" well it's MY choice to not have any part in. My money shouldn't go to kill a baby. The thought of an abortion makes me sick in the first place, but we are being forced to foot the bill also.
100%. You guys want choice, fine, that means choice for everybody, not just where it’s convenient for you. We’re talking equal rights? Awesome. I’m not interested in helping you and I’m exercising my freedom to say if you want an abortion, it’s coming out of your pocket.

Interestingly, should she have decided not to keep the baby, he would have had no say in trying to keep the baby.
Just so I'm clear on the proper pro-life response here, at least among a sizable chunk of the pro-life community. We certainly shouldn't regard him as a murderer, right? I mean, conceivably we should condemn him for his drugging the woman. But we cannot condemn him for inducing an abortion and killing his unborn child. He is, after all, a victim here. And he should not be punished for what he did to the unborn. Sound about right? Edit: To be clear: I think the man should be punished for harming the unborn. My view is abortion is murder, and those procuring an abortion are guilty of a crime that deserves condemnation and punishment. The problem is, my experience is that this is an unpopular view in the pro-life movement. Suggestions that women should be punished for abortion are typically replied to with the claim that women are victims of abortion, even when they get them, and that they cannot possibly comprehend the gravity of the decision they are making, and thus can't meaningfully be culpable for it. Alright; fine. But the price of consistency is that, if a woman can't be punished for inducing her abortion (because she can't really be considered culpable for that act), then neither can this guy. How can he possibly be culpable, and a woman not? There's only one way to justify that, and it's as or more distasteful than simply holding the woman responsible and worthy of punishment to begin with.
God, I hate the double standard that the courts create. It’s like the child is only alive if the mother wants it. Kill the kid without her consent? Jail. Kill them both? Double homicide. But have her grant permission to kill it? No penalty for anyone involved.
He's definitely a murderer.  I don't know where you are getting that.  He belongs in jail. Any consideration we have for mothers is usually based on their position in this situation.  They have to carry the baby, generally become its caregiver in single parent situations, and even if abortion was illegal, they would generally have the definitive say whether the child survives to birth or not.  This is a considerable burden on the woman, which does not extinguish the right to life of the child, but does earn a woman some consideration, especially in the more extreme cases of rape and such. Don't think for a second that we don't understand the usual points made by pro-choicers in regard to just how difficult it is to raise a child on your own.  It is hard, and while those considerations are subordinate to the right to life of the child, it is certainly grounds for mercy. This guy just didn't want responsibility or to pay for his kid.  He's just an asshole. Yes, there are women like that and they should be tried for murder too, if that is truly their mindset.  Consideration for a woman's condition still doesn't excuse cold-blooded calculation on their part any more than it does for a man. This guy has no excuse.  All he had to do was sit back and let the kid be born and then pay some child support.
Sure, I agree. I can even at least respect the argument that the two positions are different by nature and thus deserve different consideration, different estimations of culpability, and so on. The problem is, what you just said - "She is a murderer" / "It is a cold-blooded calculation", etc - simply doesn't show up in the pro-life movement anymore in a prominent way. Maybe it shows up here, in this subreddit. But the last time a major politician said that women who get abortions should receive some form of punishment, the collective response from the most prominent pro-life 'leaders' was outrage. By that standard, the woman is a victim, always. And it's not an uncommon standard. I'm drawing that out, and this was a great example of a case to do it with. I notice that for as popular as the sentiment I'm talking about is, we have yet to have someone show up and defend it in this thread. And I suspect that's because everyone knows that the 'the woman is always a victim' position doesn't work, and this case will make that stark. But they also don't want to rethink that position. Something pro-lifers will have to address, each in their own way.
Politicians know that the idea of throwing a woman in jail doesn't play well to the masses.  Especially young white women.  That's why they are playing up the mercy aspect to too high a degree. I don't blame them, it's politics and politics isn't fair.  The minute they take the harder line, the Democrats will put some attractive young woman up on the stage at the DNC to tug at heart strings and talk about how she now has "hope" because she could now finish her Ivy League degree because she wasn't held back by an unwanted pregnancy.  How could you possibly throw such a promising young person in jail? Having said that, I am personally less concerned with punishment than protecting the lives of the children in question.  That's why I think that it is important to point out that this is less about making people into criminals and more about saving lives. If I thought that apprehending the woman, putting her through community service, and then letting her go would keep her from considering abortion again, I'd be fine with that as a penalty.  I'm not a particularly vengeance minded individual. But if she keeps it up, and does so in a cold-blooded manner, she needs to be imprisoned or otherwise prevented from bringing harm to anyone else again.
Politicians, sure. I don't like the thought of a politician misrepresenting their beliefs (or the beliefs of the people they represent) but I can at least get what's going on there. I'll still disagree with them - one more culture to change. But they're not who concern me. It's pro-life leaders, and the pro-life community in general. When they tell me that all women who get abortions are victims in all of this, it does no good to tell me that they're saying this as some pragmatic calculation of political effectiveness. I think abortion is immoral, it is the snuffing of human life, and it is wrong and selfish to rotten to do. And I used to think that was the pro-life view, and something they wished to promote the acceptance of. Lately, I'm not so sure. It's entirely possible for someone to care so much about political success that the actual issue they cared about to begin with is sacrificed.
To clarify a bit, you're being sardonic about pro-lifers who feel abortionists (or women) should be punished only lightly if abortion got outlawed, right? It does seem like "what punishment should there be?" is a highly-contended conversation between pro-lifers still.
Lightly? I could deal with lightly, because at least that recognizes that there was a culpable (and perhaps grave) wrong committed. But the prevailing view is that women should not be punished at all - that they are always victims in the matter, period, end of story. The guilt is on the abortion doctor - preferably male himself. (Even abortion workers often escape condemnation on this, on the grounds that - like some pro-lifer 'leaders' - they may eventually change their minds, and what they really need is love and support.) So, I'm testing the limits of that. If this man can be punished specifically for the harm he does to the unborn, then how could a woman not be? If he's condemnable, even despicable, for what he did - then how is a woman not, for doing the exact same action? Something has to give, and pro-lifers who follow the model of 'the woman who gets and procures an abortion is always a victim' will have to face it.
It's a fair question. I suppose I'd say the difference here is that the culture of abortion specifically says to women "You COULD have a baby, BUT... -you'll probably lose your job." -you'll probably lose your figure." -you will definitely be miserable for 9 months." -you might die in childbirth." Biologically, men don't really have to worry about these things, and as such, the culture isn't poisoning their minds in the same way. I think this is one of those situations where it's fair to treat men and women separately since women are the ones carrying the baby. Now, I'm not saying there should be no punishment for abortion in a world where it's illegal. But I do think it's reasonable to take into account the effect of our culture in diminishing the value of the unborn so much when deciding what the punishment should be. It's a difficult thing to change overnight.
The idea of having a child is made out to be a thing of utter misery for men too, not to mention there actually exists social stigma. A single mom is currently considered "brave" by just about everyone. A man who got the woman pregnant - even if he used contraception, even if the woman lied and said she was on the pill - is considered to be condemnable no matter what, and to deserve everything coming to him, from social stigma, to a ruined career, to poverty or near-poverty, and more. Are you really going to say that if a man can establish he was terrified of being a father/supporting the child - if he had tremendous anxiety - that he's no longer culpable? Because if you put your foot down and say: "Murder is murder. Your anxieties don't exonerate you.", then the female defense is sacrificed too. Sure is. But many, maybe even most pro-lifers aren't trying to change it. It's one thing to admit that the state of the culture will take a lot of effort to change. But when that becomes "Therefore we can't even try, we just have to accept those terms and maybe someday hope someone else changes it", it sounds like a lark.
He should be. I'm not a "Nordic Model" prolifer.
You meant that’s the proper abortion apologist response, right?


^
Claiming pro-lifers don’t care about the born as much as the unborn is a baseless straw man that is used to deflect the actual issue. Either ask for their evidence and address that, or you could simply call them out on their logical fallacy
First of all, ad hominem and strawman fallacies. It makes a snap assumption about someone who's pro-life. It's assuming a huge amount of things all at once--a person's views on abortion don't have anything to do with their views on the death penalty, wars, and charity. Assuming you know someone's beliefs is a big reason why there's so much conflict in this world. Secondly, appeal to hypocrisy fallacy. Even if that person does agree with those other things, it doesn't negate their actual argument for being pro-life. In addition, it's reasonable to conclude that believing a fetus shouldn't be terminated is a different social matter entirely than believing some criminals should get the death penalty or that our current welfare programs are ultimately more helpful than a theoretical alternative. Third (assuming the initial argument is targeting conservatives by liberals, which is where I often see it used), the argument plays the hypocrisy card against conservatives for believing "A, A, A and B." Can't that same argument be levied against liberals then for believing the opposite, "B, B, B and A?" In other words, "How can you be for helping the poor and not killing criminals when you don't even bother to save people at their youngest and most vulnerable?" Same argument, every bit as flawed. Fourth, even if it was true, it’s a ridiculous argument. If you save someone from a drowning pond, you shouldn’t be expected to pay for their college education. Likewise, if you feel refugees deserve to come here, you shouldn’t be expected to personally house one for the next 18 years. You can be against someone being KILLED without being expected to be personally responsible for their entire financial well-being afterward. Fifth, it ISN'T true. Pro-lifers do a ton of volunteer work to help pregnant women and children. Here's one link: http://www.thepublicdiscourse.com/2011/01/2380/ The Catholic Church is the largest pro-life organization in the world, and also the largest charity in the world. Finally, "pro-life" is just semantics. Nobody wants to be known as an "anti" group (although I concede that this point is debatable); even people who were anti-slavery were known as "pro-abolitionists." Going through the term "pro-life" with a fine-toothed comb is reductive and pedantic; it'd be like arguing against "pro-choice" by saying, "Oh, so you're fine with the CHOICE to sexually assault people!?" It's a pointless diversion that only derails the core debate about abortion.
This is great, thanks!
The case of Alfie Evans was a perfect example of pro-lifers caring about a child after they have been born.
This isn't an argument that needs rebutting - it's an argument that needs action. With the current state of adoption backlogs, the influx of hundreds of thousands of new babies would flood the state care system. If pro-lifers can choose en masse to support adoption, banning abortion will be far easier.
Easier, perhaps, but not far easier. Most abortion proponents don't even want the woman pregnant at all, let alone have the child born and adopted. I'm not against action to help children, of course.  We should totally do whatever we can to help. Nevertheless, the only real answer to that argument is that killing an innocent person is wrong in and of itself.  This is not conditional on their means when they are born. If means testing was necessary to justify people's lives, there would be a lot of poor people who would not be able to justify their lives, but who nevertheless value their lives in spite of their conditions.
"Abortion proponents" want the woman to be able to decide for herself.  No one objects to a woman giving birth and putting the baby up for adoption as long as that's genuinely her choice. That's why we call it pro-choice.
I think I worded that poorly.  Most abortion proponents do not believe the woman should even have to carry the child to term, let alone worry about adoption.  I was not meaning to suggest that pro-choicers were all eugenicists, that's just some of you.
Baby adoptions rarely come from state care. This is a conflation of children being removed from their relatives (usually temporarily) because of problems in the family, and orphans needing adoption.  Sure,there are many babies in foster care, but the majority will be going back to their parents. You can't just pick a kid from the system when their parents most often haven't had their rights terminated. The FACT is that the waiting list to adopt a baby is years and years and years long. There are more people signed up to adopt babies than there are babies being placed for adoption. If a pregnant woman goes through an agency or even posts an ad in a Catholic church bulletin she's going to find a family for her baby. I hate this stupid conflation of two completely separate issues. State care has almost zero to do with infant adoption.
In the US there is a long waiting list to adopt any non special needs newborn.  Not enough adoptive families for newborns is not a problem at all.
Statistically, the demographics that are most likely to be prolife give more to charities (ie, caring for "born people") than people from demographics who are most likely to support abortion
Can you give me a source on that which I can use on my essay?
https://www.philanthropy.com/article/Religious-Americans-Give-More/153973 Even secular/liberal sources acknowledge it. New York Times had an article about it
Stephanie Gray has a great rebuttal to this argument. Seen here (at 1:28:00)
She is fantastic, one of the best pro-life debaters out there. I ship her and Trent Horn. <3
Point directly at the fact that whoever is making that accusation does not assess people’s politics without resorting to stereotyping and strawmanning. This stereotyping arises out of the insistence that the pro-life cause is only a legislative/political one—ignoring the centuries-old charitable and humanitarian origins of the movement, something steeped in empathetic vision for humanity. Not a spiteful or tribalist vision. Many people, both historically and contemporarily, are pro-life out of a larger charitable and human rights context. People active in the pro-life community, from what anybody is welcome to come and see at meetups and rallies/protests, are involved in plenty more than pro-life advocacy. We are also involved in clean-water and ecological initiatives, maternal/elder/hospice care charities, cancer/disease foundations, anti-hunger, veterans care, disaster relief, youth development, international adoption agencies, etc. My friend’s church group just got back from doing relief work in Syria. Nobody can tell her with a serious face that she doesn’t value life after hearing about her efforts out there. Having said that, a large part of the stereotype comes from big-tent politics on both the left and the right, which have become increasingly polarized in recent decades. Republican politicians wear as a badge of honor how pro-life they are. Democrats wear as a badge of honor how pro-life they aren’t. Each side distances itself from the other so as to look more distinct (and therefore more attractive) to prospective voters. This leads to a sort of identity politics whereby to be pro-life is to adopt a Republican “identity” and subscribe to other sub-identities within the “big-tent.” Before being caught in this trap, the pro-life position used to be apolitical, or neutral at best. And it wasn’t uncommon to find plenty of left-wing people using left-wing justifications against abortion. As you can tell, I am highly critical of the mess that has been wrought by this big-tent politics—I am pro-life and socially conservative, but my fiscal views differ from GOP orthodoxy in that I am comfortable with increased funding for maternal and child care. I am not suggesting that people reading my post adopt my views—all I’m warning is to think for a moment before subscribing wholesale to the entire platform of political parties as if that is a substitute for calculated and considered ideology.



The vote is this Friday. Anyone in Ireland should make sure they are registered to help vote against this awful repeal.
Although the Hyde Amendment prohibits federal tax money to be used to directly fund abortion, in 1984 the Oregon Supreme Court moved to allow state tax dollars to DIRECTLY fund abortions through OHP (medicaid). Over the the last 14 fiscal years, $23.8 million taxpayer dollars have directly funded over 50,000 abortions. If you or someone you know lives in Oregon, please sign/share this petition at www.StopTheFunding.orgNonpartisan Sources:http://www.politifact.com/oregon/statements/2013/sep/24/oregon-2014/does-oregon-health-plan-pay-about-4000-abortions-y/https://aix-xweb1p.state.or.us/es_xweb/DHSforms/Served/he9035.pdf

It's difficult to engage with people when they are--going into the conversation--already convinced that your side is full of a bunch of mustache-twirling villains that have ridiculously convoluted plots to restrict women's rights. I mean, for crying out loud, "pro-life is as bad as pro-rape." Might as well say that we're LITERALLY HITLER. But maybe this is our fault? I dunno. How many pro-lifers out there are being crazy and misrepresenting us? Regardless, I tried my best to reply.
If you construct a good argument and remain civil you'll usually get a good response on that sub. I had posts where I said "I'm an Incel and....." that got upvotes and support because I acted in a civil and constructive manner.
I had to look up the word "incel" because I suddenly heard it twice today. Since one of those times was being called that as an insult (even though I'm married), I guess it's just that user's way of saying I hate women? I dunno.
Basically yes. Incels are involuntary celibate men who have gotten a bad rap for hating women, thinking women owe them sex, etc. You can check out the current Incel sub /r/braincels.
I was initially concerned until I read the body posts of those threads! Seems like a funny bunch. Is there a similar word for someone who was voluntarily celibate until marriage (abstinent)?
Volcel.
The converse could also be applicable.  "Pro-choice supports genocide", "Pro-choicers want babies to die", etc., as if we're goose-stepping pregnant women into abortion clinics at gunpoint.  Might as well say that we're Hitl...Actually, nevermind, abortion gets compared to the holocaust pretty frequently.  Even get called demonic every once in awhile. The reality is that the majority of pro-choice advocates fully support the woman who doesn't want an abortion just as much as we support the woman who makes the decision to abort, whether that be for medical, personal, or financial reasons.  The choice to have a child is hers, and if she decides to carry her pregnancy to term then I, as a pro-choice advocate, want her to have as many options and as much support as possible to make that happen. The majority of both pro-life and pro-choice advocates, I believe, come to their viewpoint in good faith and good conscience.  Both sides want the least amount of harm possible.   Both sides can, and may always, disagree about the profound moral and spiritual implications of terminating a pregnancy, even in its earliest stage.  The debate has gone beyond that, though, and those with an opposing viewpoint are considered the "Enemy", actively scheming to bring the structure of society down around us and laughing the entire time. It's almost as if the argument were  being intentionally escalated as a tool to get the vote out or to get people to lose sight of whatever else the politicians are doing at the time.  Nah, couldn't be.
I don't entirely agree with your post but it's a refreshing viewpoint.
The pro-choice stands idly by when babies in the womb are killed, in fact they actively advocate and vote to allow women to be able to kill their babies. It's not an exaggeration to say pro-choicers want babies to die if their mother mother wants the baby to die. This whole nonsense about im personally against it but i don't want to impose my morality on people doesnt make sense. Killing is a human rights violation. It's like saying "I'm personally against slavery but let slave owners choose" Now, I'm not saying that the situation of a women with an unplanned baby is the same as a slave owner but what i am saying is we can't use "i'm personally against this but i don't want to impose my morality" when it comes to human rights violations. I don't think women should be punished because the pro-choice crowd has gaslit them into thinking what they're doing is fine and also it will backfire and make voters vote in the legality of abortion.
Hm, only one post in and I've already been told to "Get raped." Lovely!
I honestly can't tell if he's trolling or just low IQ.
Literally every word of the above is a disaster.  Like, just no.  I’m really tired of people talking down about pro-life women as if we’re incapable of telling when our own rights are being violated. This isn’t just wrong, it’s offensive to me as a person.
It's all that internalized misogyny you didn't realize you had. Yes someone has said that to me before. Yes, it was the most condescending thing I've ever heard. Would have been better off with "You're just a woman, you don't really know what you want."
Ugh.  And I’m even a feminist.  Like, I will happily spell out how legal abortion is horribly misogynist if it comes to it. But all this “You’re giving away your own rights!” is infuriating.  Particularly when it’s a guy coming down to man-splain to me how I don’t know my own rights. (Sorry.  I am not disagreeing with you.  I’m just really offended when abortion apologists try to play these thought policing cards.)
I completely agree. Its one of the most infuriating things in the world. Pro-choicers love to throw out "no uterus no opinion" and then be completely fine when a man tries to explain to a woman why abortion is great. How can a man feel comfortable telling me, a woman, what is good for women? At least pro-life men are trying to save lives. Pro-choice men are just ridiculous.
Here's a chance to represent the pro life movement on /r/unpopularopinion.
There is no point whatsoever in attempting to have a conversation with someone who calls you a rapist for being pro-life.  None.  I have no interest in beating my head against a brick wall.
I looked at the thread.  It's just a pro-choice circle jerk save for the one attempt to throw citations in there.  They're even doing the all-caps stuff. This is just a person who wants to argue with someone.  They can get their entertainment elsewhere.
Trust me there no reasoing with that Sub
If someone believes that abortions are sometimes okay, can they be part of the pro life camp?I realized that I am not entirely sure how to define "pro-life." I have heard pro choice people say that as long as you believe abortion should be legal you are pro choice. If so, could there be overlap in these two groups?I guess here is the crux of the question, does the term pro life refer to a moral belief, a political one, or both?Thanks!Edit: This made me think of an additional question, if someone thinks abortion should be illegal for some reason other than the life of the fetus, can that person still be considered pro life?
There may be a small bit of wiggle room--for instance, almost all pro-lifers believe abortion could be allowed in the exceedingly rare cases where the mother's life is in danger as well (although I'd argue that it's technically not abortion in those cases anyway since they wouldn't actively be trying to kill the unborn as a goal, just trying to get him/her out etc but I digress). Some pro-lifers hold an exception to rape and incest, but since these are also a tiny percentage of abortions, I wouldn't consider that viewpoint to be pro-choice either. But there are also viewpoints that feel abortion remaining legal would reduce the overall number of abortions. I don't consider these pro-life, even though I understand the reasoning behind it. By and large, to be pro-life means being against abortion being allowed, although there might be a couple blurred lines in there.
So would say that being pro life involves a moral ethic that leads to a legal belief? Also, I asked this in the edit, but I don't know if you will see it and I am curious about what you have to say. If someone believes abortion should be illegal for some reason other than the life of the fetus, can that person be considered pro life? I really appreciate your answer above, it answered the question in a very thoughtful way. Thanks!
No problem, glad you got something out of it! While "you just hate women" is one of my least-favorite pro-choice arguments, there are admittedly probably a tiny fringe group of crazies out there who want to restrict abortion solely to give women less control. I wouldn't consider them pro-life myself, as I do think a viewpoint involving defending the unborn is a necessary requisite. This point could be debatable, but I'd say the definition is largely understood to be about the unborn's protection. As for whether it involves a moral ethic...probably, but not necessarily? I suppose someone could be against abortion not because they feel that killing is ethically wrong, but because they feel that less people in the next generation is a net loss for humanity from a practical standpoint. I'd probably consider them pro-life.
If you believe abortion to be murder, then it follows that you would want it to be illegal
I have seen some different views on this. Some people think anti-abortion laws will not lower the amount of abortions, instead just make the abortions more dangerous. If these people believe abortion is murder, or at least the killing of an individual human, do they count as pro life? (This leads my mind to a discussion of laws based on principal vs practicalities, but thats for another day). So if someone thinks abortion is killing, and it is wrong, but they sometimes believe it necessary can they still be considered pro life?
Generally, you will want to look at things much like you would look at self-defense.  Killing someone who attacks you is homicide, but if you're defending yourself, it is justifiable homicide. Abortion is homicide, but if you're really, truly in danger of your life, the right to life of the two people in question is balanced and you can look at other situations. To me this means you can't have an incest or a rape exclusion, but certainly can have a choice in the case of danger to the mother's life. It depends, then, on what you consider "necessary".  Many women believe it is "necessary" so that they don't have to lose any of their standard of living to have the child.  I don't think I'd call that pro-life.
How much danger is too much though, and who should get to decide that?
Presumably a physician would make a determination of their condition using standards of care and their best judgement.
For a lot of physicians though that would probably often include abortion since pregnancy is inherently dangerous in the first place.
Pregnancy is certainly a condition requiring care.  It is not, however, an automatic death sentence, it's a normal condition with well understood care and treatment. In the event that agreed upon standards of care do suggest that carrying the child to term is highly dangerous due to specific causes, there should certainly be the choice whether to continue that pregnancy or not on the part of the mother in consultation with their physician, based on those standards.
It's still something that carries a health risk, getting an abortion is probably almost always statistically less risky than carrying the pregnancy to term. If you left doctors themselves define what the necessary risk threshold is it's probably gonna be right around 0.
That sort of assessment could only be made if the physician only had one patient, instead of two.  The physician would not be permitted to consider the woman the only patient who is under care. Make no mistake, sometimes you're going to lose one of the patients, and chances are, that will likely be the child due to the impracticality of separating the child from the mother, but you would not be permitted to consider unrealized risk to be grounds for termination.
Who do you want deciding how much risk to take with your health and your life? Do you think that someone other than you should make that decision?
Myself along with my doctor. If I don't wanna take the risk of being pregnant that should be a decision that I get to make with the help of my doctor.
So, I'm going to see how well I can dance around pissing anyone off, though I'm most likely going to piss everyone off. I don't think the pro-life movement is in the position to completely push out people who think there should be exceptions to banning abortion. Both my moral and political position is that abortions should not be allowed to happen. However that is prevented is a step in the right direction for me. So from a political stand point, I think that working with people who believe there should be exceptions is the right way to go. If you believe that a healthy baby whose parents just need some economic support should never be aborted, we can work together on that and save a few hundred thousand babies. If you think that, plus we shouldn't view disabilities as a reason to abort, then we can work together to end the stigma and protect thousands more babies. If you believe that anything other than rape is not a good enough reason and that we should do more to help all these mothers who don't think they can raise their children/don't want to be pregnant get through this difficult time, then we can work together and save all but .5% of babies. If you believe that a child who is a product of rape shouldn't be punished for the violence its biological father inflicted on its mother, and that the answer is all the economic, psychological, ect support we can give, then we can work together and save almost every child. If you believe that every available dime we have should go to supporting medical advancement that grinds the maternal mortality rate so far down it's basically 0, then you and I can work together to end all of this. What's more, with each step in that journey, the value of all human life is boosted and shown to more and more people. If I could end abortion tomorrow, I would, but that might not be what's possible. But every step we take to save more babies than we did last year is a step in the right direction, and if you are for helping with at least part of that, then we can work on that part together. Anyway, that's my stance on the matter.
Thanks for this reply! This seems like a really practical stance, and one that I would probably take. Here is an additional question. If abortion is in fact the killing of an innocent person, shouldn't it be illegal based on principal alone? If it is an innocent person, shouldn't the laws protect that person regardless of the negative results the law might bring? I wish I could come up with a better way to phrase that question. It is an objection I have been confronted with when questioning anti-abortion legal action, and I do think it has some merit as a question. Thanks!
Yes, from the stand point that abortion is murder, the stand point that I subscribe to, it should be illegal based on principal. The moral imperative is to protect the innocent. The hitch is it's a political problem and we live in a democracy. The likelihood of ending abortion entirely through legal means is very low. By reaching people's hearts, we may someday change enough minds to make abortion entirely illegal, but the practical problem with that is in the meantime, if nothing is done, nearly a million babies are aborted a year. The thing is, a 20-week ban is more generally accepted, so even though that only saves a few thousand or so rather than millions, not acting at all saves none. So an incremental approach, while not morally satisfying to one who feels abortion is always wrong, is a step in the right direction because it's an attainable action that would save lives.
To be pro-life, you need to want abortions eradicated up to whatever point you feel they become justifiable. In that sense, I don't care if they're illegal, I only want them to stop. However, bear in mind that while abortion remains legal, abortions can be: Promoted by government and other agencies as a solution by regulations and laws. Funded by taxpayer money and that money can be used to promote them. Abortion retains legitimacy as a "solution" in society in general since many people take their lead from the State and politics in general. The State exists to protect the rights of innocent people from arbitrary harm.  Without the State, it becomes who has the most power to impose their will on others. Therefore, we ensure that those who use their power to kill others unjustly are punished by the State. Abortion is one such case where the innocent are killed by those with power, usually unjustly.  You could almost say that making abortion illegal is as much about having a just government as it is about ending actual abortions.
I think anyone who thinks there should be a ban on elective abortion (ie, the roughly 95% of abortions that are performed just on request with no health reason or because of rape/incest) can be considered pro-life. Things like the rape exception, and exceptions for fetuses with severe anomalies, are controversial within the pro-life movement but I think people who support those exceptions should be considered pro-life. There are some pro-lifers that believe laws won't lower the number of abortions and therefore don't support laws against it. This is misguided, because that belief is factually untrue (see here). There are also some people that say they are "personally pro-life" but don't support laws against it because "who am I to force my beliefs on someone?" These people are indistinguishable from many pro-choicers in their beliefs and I don't think they can be considered pro-life.
I appreciate your thought out answer. As a follow up question, would you consider the misguided people (those who think laws wont help) as pro life? This question may be a little off topic, so if you do not want to answer that is fine. At what point would you say an abortion becomes an elective abortion? In some situations, a pregnancy may damage a person's health but not kill them. Likewise, some pregnancies may leave permanent psychological scars and mental health issues. How do you determine when an abortion becomes elective? Like I said, this might be off topic. Additionally, I want to recognize how questions like the second can be used by pro choicers to corner pro lifers. This is not my intent, I am just genuinely curious. If you do not want to go into now, that is fine.
It depends. If they were to see the evidence and then change their mind and believe abortion should be illegal, then yes. If they still insist that abortion shouldn't be illegal after seeing that evidence, then no. Yeah "elective" doesn't have a precise definition and pro-lifers will disagree on it, but I guess to me that if you think abortion should be illegal minus one or more of the following reasons: Mother's life is in danger Mother's health is in danger There is a severe fetal anomaly Pregnancy was the result of rape Mother is likely to commit suicide unless she gets the abortion I think that person can be considered pro-life. Note that I'm not saying that I personally agree that abortion should be legal in all of those cases, but I think one* ca*n make those exceptions and be pro-life. Some people may disagree with me on this and that's fine, but that's my opinion on it.
My understanding of "pro-life" means you think abortion should generally be illegal. Most pro-lifers make some legal exceptions. Whereas pro-choicers have a wide variety of moral positions on abortion but generally think abortion should be legal.
I think that there's probably a spectrum of where you fall on the abortion debate so I'm sure that some people would put the legal limits at different places during those 40 weeks.  I have friends who would ban it past the first heartbeat, some that would ban it all together. I think people's opinions would vary.
I agree, there is a wide spectrum of different beliefs around this complex issue. Considering there is such a wide spectrum of beliefs, how important do you consider the titles of pro life and pro choice? Do you think they help or hurt their own causes by using these titles? Thanks!
I'm not really sure tbh.  I know that most "pro-choice" people I've talked fall somewhere on the spectrum.  When I really cornered a couple "pro choice" people about when they thought that abortion should be illegal they said that they thought it should be somewhere around the first heartbeats.  Well that's not much different that some"pro life" people I know. I wonder if people's political leaning dictates which term they identify with more.
Ultimately, I'm not particularly concerned about labels. I'll work with people when our goals align, and against them when they diverge.
In asking this question, it seems you think abortion is something other than the killing of a human life.
What do you think is going to be more interesting and productive, discussing my person views or answering the question at hand? Personally, I think it is a good question and not commonly discussed. It is asking about the ideological foundation pro-life individuals must have. Secondly, I do think abortion is the killing of a human life. I think it is extremely nuanced however, and I have a great amount of empathy for those on both sides. I do not think there is a super easy or clear answer.
Obviously, you weren't able to see that I thought your "question" was lacking. Anyone who thinks there is "nuance" as to whether abortion is the killing of a human life is either disingenuous or an ideologically deranged denier of science. In general, if you support legalized abortion, then you support the killing of innocent human life. There is no middle ground. Now, are there some extreme situations where an abortion might be justified? Maybe. But even if such a situation existed, there is no disputing the fact that the abortion results in the killing of an innocent human life. The extremity of the surrounding circumstances doesn't wipe this fact away.
For me, when I am a pro-life, it is due to my moral belief. My political belief is also based on that too. That is a small segment of the whole pro-life group. With this said, I believe that anyone who identifies themselves as pro-life that is okay with abortions in some situations are actually pro-choice. That's because I believe abortions in any form leads to pre-born babies to be murdered. Therefore, it is morally wrong regardless of what situation  it is for anyone.
Would this include situations the endanger the pregnant person? There are quite a few strong pro life people who would allow exceptions for things such as rape and incest, would you exclude these people from those who you consider pro life?
Yes, I would. I am not excusing or turning blind to crimes such as rape that may be committed against women resulting in pregnancy. However, babies that get conceived in these manners should not be ones that pay for crimes committed by their fathers. Also, they only account for very small fraction of all pregnancies. I consider each person to be pro-life when the person will fight to protect every life regardless of what stage or age the person is at.
Op, do you believe murder should be illegal? Or should murder be state sanctioned and protected? The question is really whether abortion constitutes murder.
So in order to be pro life you must 100% think that abortion should be illegal? If you think abortion is murder, are there instances where you find abortion justifiable? If so, how do you quantify the situations and why?
I don't think abortion should ever be justifiable. The argument that "but rape victims!" or "but the mother's life is in danger!" don't hold water and make up less than 2 percent of all abortions.
So how do you respond to claims that abortion when the pregnant person's life is in danger are justified in the same way killing for self defense is justified?
Human agency. There is a difference between a homicidal adult coming at me with a weapon intent on killing me or others versus an innocent child growing in the womb of a mother. Hell, man. That's obvious. And anyway, in the modern age there's no such thing as a life threatening pregnancy that requires killing the infant. It doesn't bloody happen, that's just a stupid myth used in abortion arguments. This isn't 1600.

I find it painfully ironic and highly iritating that the repeal side is using a love heart symbol, even though any abortion after 21 days/3 weeks of conception stops a beating heart.* (*babycentre.com says the heart starts beating at 5 weeks gestation. However gestation refers to the last menstrual period rather than the moment of fetillisation which happens 2 weeks later. This is why babycentre.com seemingly bizarrely says fertillisation happens on week two of pregnancy. Here a link that explains this much better than i did http://americanpregnancy.org/while-pregnant/fetal-development/)

Lets not link Alex Jones on this subreddit. Ever. Please. The man doesn't deserve our page views. He isn't representative of us or our movement, so lets not signal-boost him.
Why would that be? I don’t know anything about him.
Alex Jones is at best a conspiracy theorist, at worst a con artist who takes advantage of less skeptical people to promote his products.
How interesting, he got 2,356,847 subscribers now, lol.
A lot of gullible people... Seriously, this is a guy who thought the Sandy Hook Shooting was a hoax. Who thought the government was putting chemicals in the water to turn the frogs gay.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GMGdN648qgU https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f68cBhXjZAY
Wait, it this the "the frogs are turning gay" guy?
Like Alex Jones or not, I found what the Reverend said about taking any and all of Margaret Sanger’s accolades out of the Smithsonian absolutely correct!

Alex Jones removes any and all credibility from this.

The "acorn is an oak tree" argument never made any sense to begin with, because plants don't develop the same way human's do. Pollination, the point where the seed finds fertile dirt, and then when it starts to grow has shades of human conception, implantation, and growth, but if we're looking at the actual biological process it's not a good comparison. We're not plants.
The reason "acorn is an oak tree" is a poor argument is because it is missing the point.  What we call a "tree" is a merely stage in the lifecycle of an individual organism belonging to the genus Quercus. No oak tree starts off as anything but an acorn.  And while acorns may or may not be successful, each one of them is a living organism of the same genus and species as a fully developed tree until it ceases viability. In other words, the argument is flawed because the comparison to humans is like saying no adult is a child, or no adolescent is an old man.  Tautologies that simply muddy the waters.  Those are all developmental stages of an individual of homo sapiens not separate organisms. In short, it is the same class of reasoning that permits us to maintain such concepts as racism and sexism.  If one grouping of humans has the power and the desire to declare another grouping of humans lacking of a right to exist, they could totally do that.  Nothing is stopping them. But I would hope we would see though that.  In the case of abortion, however, it seems we have not.
Why is it not a good comparison? The biology of all organisms that reproduce sexually is essentially the same
If you're talking about how the building blocks of life are largely the same, yes. And we share like, 50% of our DNA with trees, sure. But the process of an acorn growing is different. They are produced by a mature tree(sometimes 20 to 30 years old) after being pollinated. Whereas, the eggs that must be fertilized for humans are structurally present in the womb and growing along with the human fetus. I guess maybe when you say "biology of all organisms" I'm confused by what you mean. Are you saying DNA-wise? Human Embryos develop organs, brain waves, digits, while trees don't develop any of that. Can you elaborate on what you mean?
Sure. Organs and brainwaves don’t make us any different from a plant. A plant has distinct systems dedicated to certain jobs. One can say the roots are an organ of a tree, the stems and shoots another organ. Just because a tree doesn’t have a brain doesn’t make their reproduction cycle any different from ours. The process is exactly the same. Create a haploid cell, combine it with another haploid cell, and then give it a nutritious place to grow. Edit: Polyploidy is common on trees, however I still fail to see the difference between the way we reproduce. The only difference I can see is that the fetus in our species uses the nutrients of the mother directly, without consent (a legal term we make up to be sure that our bodies aren’t used by someone else).
Ok, I think I get what you're saying then. Yeah, that's true they have organs as well, but their organs are different from a biological standpoint. The point I'm trying to make, I guess, is that while the process of combining DNA is largely the same, what develops is very different. I also think it's fairly significant that they can develop polyploidy cells (I'm sorry, I wasn't sure quite how to put that out there gramatically), because it demonstrates the difference in how we develop and how trees can. I'll admit, though, I was a History Education Major. I've studied a bit of this stuff in an unofficial capacity because it impacts my own beliefs, but I can't claim to be an expert. As for the consent point, I'd personally not like to pursue discussing that, mainly because I've found this to be a pleasant exchange and I know that subject can be more divisive. I'd kinda rather just take what you've said and consider what it means for what I understand/believe. Would you be offended if I didn't engage in the consent point, at least not at this juncture?
No certainly not! The consent point is just generally the thing we humans disagree on, and it’s not the point of this exchange. Our reproduction system does develop polyploid babies, but these pregnancies generally end in miscarriage. This may suggest that the polyploidy may have been common in one of our ancestors. Also we need to keep in mind that I haven’t studied genetics in over 10 years LOL.
That sounds really fascinating. I will look into learning more about that. I also want to say thanks for the interesting conversation. A lot of my close friends from HS are pro-choice and we used to have very interesting conversations about the issue, but they moved away and we don't really talk about it anymore. Generally, on the internet, it devolves in seconds into vitriol, so I just want you to know I appreciate the civility of this conversation and I wish you the best.
NP! Indeed, conversations about bodily rights tend to be heated. Good luck and thanks!

She talks about consent and body atonomy yet is advocating to kill babies which is violating their body atonomy(which is a pretty big understatement.) the baby didnt consent to being killed.
A video of a woman advocating abortion for "female rights" yet in the same breath advocates sex work (pornography and prostitution) In theory Prostitution is ok because it is theoritically consentual but to think that it's actually consentual ignores all reality. There are women who are forced into it because of desperation. The sex industry is by far the biggest promoter of abuse towards women.
That abuse is the result of sex work beeing illegal . That pushes those involved in it to the underground , the dark back allies where violence and abuse are the rule . If it was legal , taxed and regulated , the murder rate among sex workers will drop from 13 Times the national average (USA) to slightly above or even under that average (they will be protected by law and interactions with the cops will not result in them beeing jailed ) . It will bring more money through taxes which can be used for regular health screens (more control over STD's) . At the same time the sex and human trafficking cartels will get a huge hit and by that countless victims of these cartels will be saved (the law of supply and demand ). It makes no sense that the same act between two consentual adults magicly becomes illegal once there is a monetary transaction happening . Any way , that doesn't make her argument valid because all she's doing is comparing apples to oranges . Body atonomy and legalizing murder are not the same thing .
Sex work is objectively degrading to the people involved, especially women. Perhaps legalizing it would mitigate some of the crimes but by doing so society would be saying such actions are acceptable. Whether legal or not I would say that it is an incredibly dirty business that exploits women. Women are often forcibily coerced into sex work with reprucussions of violence or not getting the money needed for basic society (I can imagine most of them are impoverished). The whole idea of pornography and prostitution is about sex, exploitation, and power. I don't think legalizing it will stop any of these problems. The best way to deal with this problem is to crack down on them and make it impossible for the industry to operate.
Why Is sex work objectively degrading?
That's the whole point of making it legal. Then they can easily seek help and you can have brothels with oversight.
Again , if it's legal no one will be forced into it since it can be regulated . To call it degrading to women and dirty buisness is bigoted . Some women volentarly chose that career path with no one forcing them to (you are beeing condescendant to them). The women who are forced into it , are beeing exploited because the field is not regulated and it's handled by cartels and pimps with total abscense of the law . If it's regulated , clients and sex workers will have the means to have safe transactions with near to no violent occurrences . Legalization is the key to ending all these problems . Cracking down on it will lead to no where (All what the prohibition of 1920 did is empower the mafia and sprade corruption) .
Classy.
Sex is the mechanism to create babies and these women (probably more than any of us) know that nothing - not even birth control - can 100% divorce the act from the natural consequence of sex. If you create a life fully knowing that what you are doing is the mechanism to create life, you have the responsibility to protect that life. Period. It disgusts me as a woman and a mother that the human life created from these acts have no voice in this. These lives that did not choose to be brought into the world have no bodily autonomy of their own. It is cruel, cold, and utilitarian, and yet these women have the nerve to turn it around and say that legalizing abortion is compassionate.

He’s correct. An unborn child in his mother’s womb would be better off being born as an animal. What have we come to
Well, it depends on the type of animal.
Hopefully, we're hitting bottom, or will do so soon.  Then, I pray, we'll move on from this barbaric society where evil is good, and the innocent are worthless.

Do you really think the outlook is so glum that beating it is on "miracle" level? What are the polls saying?
Last poll taken by the Irish times has; Yes: 58% No: 42% That's a climb for the No, up from 36% , due largely to a nationally televised debate, were the no panel was spectacular & not only had an answer for everything but refused to be bullied & portrayed as uncompassionate women haters. Buy that's coming off the back of Facebook & Google banning advertising related to the referendum. Online presence was really all no had, as the government is supporting yes, the media is following suit, so that's a major hit to no. No's posters are been taken down & activists are being assaulted when putting back up. It's very bitter & the game is rigged against us.
Seriously? I thought most no voters (or at least a substantial proportion) were old people in rural Ireland?
I'm sure there are plenty of that description. I'm 32, circle of friends is 28-35 and most are either no or having serious doubts about yes (Because it's starting to hit home & get real. They've conscience about it, seems.) Haha also I'm involved with certain online communities that are forever lamenting the fact boomers Learned to use the net Because they comment on & lecture our stuff (Also they over use caps lock!)
Which televised debate was this? Sorry I've been living under a rock and haven't been watching the tv.
The Claire Byrne live on RTE.
Thanks

Wtf are you talking about

Uhhhhh you're equating literally any person against the repeal to an anti abortion terrorist? That's what's going on here?

I get your concern, but its okay for people to feel like the system is rigged against them, whether or not that is true is a different issue. I understand that it is important to be on the look out for justifications and attitudes that can lead to violence, and I am very glad you notice these things. I think this time you may have jumped the gun a little bit. I do not see anyone in the thread above talking about violence, or even talking in such a way that would imply any thought of acting violently. Lots of people complain about the legal system, its what humans do. Keeping being observant, but maybe pull back a little. And also, just fyi, not all Muslims are terrorists, not even close to the majority. I think when talking about terrorism it is best to just say terrorist instead of implying something extremely negative about a diverse group of people. Almost all Muslims hate terrorism like the rest of us. I think this is very important to remember.

Are you trolling? If not, you are blowing this way out of proportion. Lots of people complain about the government, the vast majority do not do anything violent. I have yet to meet a Muslim that "turns a blind eye to terrorism." They hate it just like the rest of us. Listen, I have trouble believing you are actually being serious now. If you aren't, then please get off of this thread and let the rest of us enjoy our more reasonable discussion.
What? There are tons of groups of people against whom the system absolutely is rigged.
Nowhere did they call for violence. And no, pointing out that the government and media support an immoral position is not the same as calling for violence. This is as much a stretch as saying "Aha! People who call for violence ALSO hold moral stances!" Yeah and we're all humans and breathe air and take shits. You're trying to draw a connection that isn't there, and you sound a little nuts.
Uh where did this even come from. Bombing abortion clinics isnt cool and all but do you really think the amount of pro life people willing to do that are in the majority? Its probably even far less than 1%. Honestly I just dont see where you're coming from with this.
My point is the way this person is talking leads to violence. "Bombing abortion clinics isn't cool and all" You say that dismissively.  Terrorism isn't "uncool," it's absolutely horrible.  I would understand if you didn't think it was a reasonable possibility and were talking this way, but you know it's happened before, many times.  I think maybe you'd find the bombing of a medical facility gratifying instead of horrifying.  You certainly aren't going out of your way to protest the possibility.
Dude, seriously, you sound nuts.
I'm sorry do you live in Ireland? Tell me, so the government is backing yes, fair enough, but in Ireland there's no independent media, it's state run & state issued licenses , so what the government supports the media supports, how is that fair? When Google & Facebook banned advertising 2 weeks before the referendum the government didn't intervene it was because the no side are dependent, on it, with no access to media nor internet advertising how is that fair? Higher education campuses aren't allowing no posters, how is that fair? Tell me, how & I wrong in saying it's not rigged? Also, if I really backed the wring horse...then why is yes/government so worried?
Hasn't it happened, like, eight times in the last several decades? I'd hardly call that an epidemic.
Here's a poll done by the irish times: https://www.irishtimes.com/news/politics/poll (you have to scroll past a few until you get to the abortion one) 44 percent say they're voting yes and 32 percent say they're voting no. remaining 24 percent say they are unsure e.c.t I think we have a chance.
That's a newer one. It's very confusing alright. I think we're still in it. If you'd have asked me 8weeks ago, what I thought, I'd have told you I'm voting no but it's going to be a landslide for yes, but the last 2 weeks have completely blown me a way. I think alot of it is the no sides arguments & presentation, but also the yes side are coming off terrible, examples, the Twitter vids of them abusing NO activists, the way No Trinity students were treated, Google & Facebook de-platforming them & of course the CBL debate have made indelible prints on the public. But, also, as it draws closer, I think it's starting to hit people how serious this vote is & it's irreversible. I think either way, the NO campaigners need to be very proud of themselves. They've played an absolute blinding game against the entire weight of the state.
Yes! i've also noticed how the closer it gets to this referendum, the more the undecideds are swinging to the no side. I suppose this would make sense since presumably the undecideds are undecided in the first place because they have reservations on abortion. Yes, this is right the yes side have just thrown all political etiquette out the window by riping down posters and abuse. Yesterday a man was driving along side (stalking) one of my female friends who is a prolife canvasser and was trowing scrunched up pro-life leaflets at her and saying mean things. It's shocking what google and facebook have done. On the surface it may look political nuetral because they are doing it to both sides but it obvious that they're purposefully targeting the no side. The no side relies way more on online ads than the yes side. The yes side already has most of the media on its side including the tv-license-funded rte, along with amnesty international ireland financally backed by billionaire Geogre Soros. By the way a few days after google announcing it will be banning referendum ads, the pro-abortion "in ireland today" was #2 on trending on youtube.(youtube is owned by google.)To make matters worse when virtually the entire comment section of that video was pointing out how wrong the video was the comment section was deleted. I agree I think the prolifers have done excellant despite the massive opposition by the media and government. Hopefully we win this thing!
That's disheartening. Really hope it isn't repealed.
yeah. Although it could be a badly done poll. It doesnt mention how large a sample size was used. I've havent looked at much other polls because a lot of the time i get links to the guardian and thejournal.ie which are very pro-abortion
So... Where did this video come from? It seems misleading and... Uh... Maybe a little to focused on comparing abortion to sacrificing children to pagan gods? I get that both can be viewed as barbaric, but this video will only bring about a stronger divide between the pro life and pro choice groups. Also, since pregnancy can, and often does, permanently change someones body, it seems disrespectful to claim it is only inconvenient. And just looking at the physical consequences completely neglects the emotional, economical, and social consequences. I mean, people who have had accidental pregnancy have been ostracized, and let me tell ya, being kicked out of a community is far more than inconvenient. Additionally, pregnancy can put a person's job at risk, which can lead to extreme financial difficulty. Lastly, people have killed themselves because they got pregnant when they didn't wanna be. Lets honor all these components of pregnancy to respect those who are pregnant and to show that the pro life cause cares about women.
Ireland has very generous social welfare for mother's, children's allowance pee child & rent paid for housing. There's really no economic reason that you can't afford them. Also the video highlights that humana have a history of sacrifice. We're not above it & when you see a real abortion, the parallels are striking. Also, it's not the Victorian era, there's no stigma from un wed pregnancy anymore. 99% of pregnancy is entirely avoidable. If don't won't to become pregnant then don't roll dice on bets you can't afford to lose.
I can see your points. I am not from Ireland so maybe some of the stuff I mentioned isn't an issue. In my experience, I have seen a lot of stigma around unwed pregnancies, especially if the person is young. I guess you are right though, its a lot different from the Victorian era. Also, now that I think about it, stigma for unwed pregnancy when the person is older is probably a lot less potent from when they are young, so you have a good point there. Personally, I do not really equate abortion and child sacrifice to be the same, but I can see how someone might. I am just not sure what the kid is being sacrificed to. Additionally, I might just think pregnancy is more of a big deal than others. I mean, I have never been pregnant nor will I ever be. So maybe people who are or were pregnant consider pregnancy to just be inconvenient. Personally, I think it is disrespectful to refer to it as such, but to each their own.
Sorry, but... do you actually think that that would do anything? Is God really the type of person to condemn millions of babies to death because you didn't pray enough? I really don't get the logic here. Surely it would make more sense to put your energy into campaigning?
You're right campaigning is where it's at. But tell me, what's the harm in saying a prayer?
The harm is if prayer is used as a substitute for campaigning.
I prayed for you guys! I wish I could vote on this in the USA to ban abortion...
Thank you
Thank you! Go out and vote! I love voting
I find it interesting all I am finding about this is all this "you're so lucky to be alive you went to England to murder your baby because you were ill in pregnancy". As if that's the only reason women have abortions, and these abortions were done past viability as well, so equally disgusting...
This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.


Try this: When you are not alive, you do not exist; Socrates no longer exists, and he didn’t exist when the Great Pyramid was built. Before you were born, you kicked your mother; therefore, you existed; therefore, you were alive.
Bad biology.  A fetus is a discrete human being, not a potential one.
Could I see some reputable scientific evidence for this claim, that perhaps is peer reviewed?
Look up any embryology textbook. A fetus is a human life. It is just at a different part of the human life cycle. Just like how a fertilized chicken egg is the first stage of a chickens life cycle.
You absolutely can.  Along with a few other citations. "Human development begins at fertilization, approximately 14 days after the onset of the last menstrual period… when a sperm fuses with an oocyte to form a single cell, the zygote. This highly specialized, totipotent cell marks the beginning of each of us as a unique individual." Keith L. Moore, The Developing Human: Clinically Oriented Embryology, 10th edition. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier, 2016. Kindle Locations 739, 1094. (Bolding added.) "The two cells gradually and gracefully become one. This is the moment of conception, when an individual's unique set of DNA is created, a human signature that never existed before and will never be repeated." "In the Womb," National Geographic, 2005. "Although life is a continuous process, fertilization (which, incidentally, is not a 'moment') is a critical landmark because, under ordinary circumstances, a new genetically distinct human organism is formed when the chromosomes of the male and female pronuclei blend in the oocyte." Ronan O'Rahilly and Fabiola Müller, Human Embryology and Teratology, 3rd edition. New York: Wiley-Liss, 2001. p. 8. (Bolding added.) "The time of fertilization represents the starting point in the life history, or ontogeny, of the individual." Bruce M. Carlson, Patten's Foundations of Embryology, 6th edition. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1996. p. 3. "It is incorrect to say that biological data cannot be decisive...It is scientifically correct to say that an individual human life begins at conception." Professor Micheline Matthews-Roth, Harvard University Medical School.  Testimony to Subcommittee on Separation of Powers to Senate Judiciary Committee S-158, Report, 97th Congress, 1st Session, 1981. "After fertilization has taken place a new human being has come into being. [It] is no longer a matter of taste or opinion...it is plain experimental evidence. Each individual has a very neat beginning, at conception." Dr. Jerome LeJeune, Professor of Genetics, University of Descartes.  Testimony to Subcommittee on Separation of Powers to Senate Judiciary Committee S-158, Report, 97th Congress, 1st Session, 1981. "It is the penetration of the ovum by a spermatozoan and resultant mingling of the nuclear material each brings to the union that constitues the culmination of the process of fertilization and marks the initiation of the life of a new individual." Clark Edward Corliss, Patten's Human Embryology: Elements of Clinical Development. New York: McGraw Hill, 1976. p. 30. So, as you can see, not only is science very clear about where a discrete human being begins, it has been very clear about this for a very long time.  And very consistent on it as well.  This consensus is so clear and specific that even National Geographic agreed to it.  New technology and research has not only, not changed this conclusion, it has made it more precise and specific.  The point during conception in which sperm and egg fully merge to become a single cell, rather than two is called "amphimixis." This is not a point that can be debated.  It is a point of fact that is very simple and very well-documented.

What do you think determines what species an organism is?
Guys guys LISTEN. It has elephant DNA but...how do we know its really an elephant?!?!?
Everyone listen to this guy, he knows what he's talking about!
Having human DNA makes a cell "human." Other properties define an "organism." The embryo qualifies as an organism, and by virtue of having human DNA, it is therefore a human organism. Here is a breakdown of those concepts for you. That's nonsense. These words have meaning. Organisms have certain traits, and an embryo has those traits which is why it's considered an organism. Well, good thing an organism isn't defined by having the exact same cells over its lifetime. You know it'd probably help if you knew the definitions of the words you are attempting to critique. Only if you are using a non-scientific form of the word "life." It's called equivocation. A person uses a word which can have multiple meanings, and wrongly uses two definitions interchangeably. We can know when scientifically an organism's life begins. That doesn't mean we know when philosophically a "person's" life begins. Scientists can and do often equivocate like this. They rightly point out that the philosophical term "life" doesn't have a precise definition, and in the process wrongly imply that it therefore doesn't have any precise definition, even a scientific one. See my link above. Another equivocation. The law of biogenesis does not negate the fact that individual organism's are distinct entities. Oh, the irony. No, they don't. You just quote people who don't understand the difference between pretty basic biological concepts, and who apparently sound intelligent enough to you to fool you into not investigating them more thoroughly.
I have read the secular pro-life blog and it's based on personalized interpretations of biology as many of the commenters pointed out. First we know that "human organism" is a much messier term than you might expect. For example, let's look at tumors. They are genetically distinct, and some of them can live in a petri dish. Some tumors are communicable; are those parasitic organisms, or are they just balls of cells? Relevant to human development, we know that a huge percentage of blastocysts (the balls of cells just after fertilization) are non-viable and will be flushed out of the uterus. If I remember right, it's around 50% or higher. Occasionally, a blastocyst that doesn't get flushed out can become cancerous. Is that cancer an "individual human organism?" Even if the blastocyst is viable, miscarriages are very common. Are those all "individual human organisms" that are dying? It is also possible in many mammals, if a pregnant female is under stress, for the uterus to reject a fetus. It has been suggested that this can happen in humans (although, ignorant Republican statements aside, this is still a scientific controversy). Should the woman be held accountable for murder if this happens? And I would disagree. An organism is an organized whole, the parts of which share a common life. An individual cell answers this description but it seems that the multiplying ball of cells of which the zygote consists does not. It is not yet an organized whole but a collection of individual organisms loosely held together by the jelly-like coating of the original ovum; a colony rather than an organism. Some of these cells will eventually form the placenta and others the embryo. Life is not a state but an activity; the nature of the life of a living organism is indicated by the nature of its activity. If the life of the zygote - or rather, the life of its individual cells - is not yet a human being, there ought to be evidence at some later stage of a change of nature. That change would be evident in the becoming present of new activities, or of new abilities giving the potentiality for new activities: not a change of activity such that some ability already latent begins to show itself, but a change which indicates that new abilities and therefore new potentialities have become present. The second answer to be sought, therefore, is whether at any stage in the process of development there is any such evidence of a change of nature. I would argue that this done happen till a functioning brain. Except we are discussing human life and human organisms and human beings which I would gather are different than just regular biological indicators that we apply to animals. The pro life definition of a human being seems to be unclear and contradictory. If it is truly based on being a unique organism with its own DNA, being human, than as I showed earlier, I am pretty sure Warts would fit that definition as well, on the basis of their human identifier and unique genetic combination. A fertilized egg, or zygote, is a cell that has unique mixture of DNA and has the potential to become an individual lifeform in the future. But it cannot do it alone. It needs nourishment and specific physical and chemical environment in order to grow. We slough off individual cells from our bodies all the time, we don't call them living organisms, partly because, though they have our full genome, they are already differentiated and specialized types. And then the cell divides, and divides again and again. The number increases exponentially. It forms a hollow ball of cells called a blastula. But again, it's hard to call it an individual organism at this stage because it is still just a bunch of cells, with basically no structure. Women have miscarriages at this stage all the time without even knowing it. To argue that life begins at conception is to say there is a potential for a human being to form. Lol what? For the record here are Dr. Wyman's qualifications: Professor of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1998‑present Program Director, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Undergraduate Science Education Program, 1989‑present Professor of Biology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1980‑1998). He is one of the most reputable experts on the issue. And he is giving a non-partisan, accredited academic lecture at one of the world's most prestigious institutions. Are you really going to tell me he doesn't understand basic biological concepts? I have yet to receive a single piece of evidence from the Pro-Life perspective that reaches this level of objective credibility.
Tumors don't fulfill the properties required of an organism. The only function they tend to fulfill is: grow. They will grow to the point of cutting off all nutrients, killing their host and themselves in the process. They don't react to stimuli. They don't maintain homeostasis. They don't reproduce with each other nor through reproduction engage in evolution. A tumor is a malfunction of a cell within an already-existing organism; it is not itself an organism. Humans are already classified as multicellular animals which differentiate into multiple specialized tissues and organs; a human tumor doesn't do this. Again, this conversation would be much simpler if you took the minimal time and effort to educate yourself on the basic concept of what defines an "organism" before asking these elementary questions. You're wasting everyone's time. Basically same response as above: read up before asking these elementary questions. In fact, moles are already explained in the link above. Maybe read it? audible sigh. Something dies in utero so it must not have been alive? What are you even getting at? Do you hear yourself? Totally, completely different question than one about basic biological facts above. Though of course no one here is surprised you still fail to differentiate the concepts. We are all multiple balls of cells. We are organisms. Multicellular, multi-organ organisms. I fail to see how "I disagree" is a substantive argument? It is an organized whole. In fact the cellular signaling involved during the blastocyst stage is pretty spectacular. I recommend you take a college-level embryology class. Your ignorance (and ignorant questions) on the topic does not constitute a counter-argument. Hahahaha you clearly were taught to write by the wax-poetic philosophy profs. No wonder you don't understand scientific texts. Not verbose enough. Humans having differences from other animals doesn't mean they don't still qualify under scientific definitions. I don't think you've sufficiently demonstrated your lack of understanding of what constitutes an organism, could you please give another demonstration for the audience? As we all do. Great point. /s You know I STILL don't think you've sufficiently demonstrated your lack of understanding of what constitutes an organism, could you please give another demonstration for the audience? ..when you don't know what an organism is. Yup. I understand. That he's conflating the law of biogenesis and individual human organism's life spans? Yes. Unfortunately, you don't know enough about either of these things to sufficiently engage in an argument on the topic with me, other than to reiterate this guy's credentials as if that somehow constitutes an argument. I'm basically talking to a wall.
Given impressive range of ad-hominem attacks, I've lost interest in engaging in an actually intellectually pursuing conversation with you, but I did want to respond to some comments you made. I provided information that shows contrary information to what the SPL interpretation states. There are many different definitions of an organism that would account for different things. What we are discussing is not whether something is a organism, but whether it is a human being. One such example of evidence on this matter: "The commencement of cellular differentiation is evidence that the embryo has now become organized, but there is no evidence from its activity to suggest that the life of this new organism is human. Building the new body by cellular replication according to genetic instructions interacting with environmental factors is no more than the cellular activity which will continue to build and maintain and repair the body tissues for many years to come. It is not the activity we mean when we speak of human life. It is when this more complex organism begins to function as a whole that another level of activity appears, built upon the first: the reception and synthesising by the brain of neural impulses transmitting information from within the embryo's own body and from its uterine surroundings, an activity which triggers off appropriate reactions for controlling the whole body's parts and systems as one. This degree of organization was neither needed at the beginning of the embryonic stage nor was it possible until the neural system could function." MC, Shea. "Embryonic Life And Human Life. - Pubmed - NCBI ." Ncbi.nlm.nih.gov. I am referring to the issue of fetal wastage. Embryonic existence is very precarious. Zygotes, blastocysts, and embryos have a high failure rate, which throws cold water on the anti-choice claim that every fertilized egg is sacred. Scientists estimate that 55 to 65% of all conceptions are spontaneously aborted in the first few days or weeks of a pregnancy, usually without the woman ever knowing she was pregnant. It's called "fetal wastage." Another 10 to 15% of pregnancies are miscarried in the months to come. Fetal wastage occurs because early embryonic forms have a high defect rate—most early miscarriages are caused by genetic defects in the fertilized egg. This shows that eggs and embryos do not yet qualify as human beings in accordance with natural systems. “Early pregnancy loss is important for our species. As many as 70% of human conceptions may never develop, and a third of recognized pregnancies terminate spontaneously through miscarriage...From a biological perspective, induced abortion is an extension of miscarriage—a continued winnowing designed to ensure that children are well born….healthy, wanted, and loved.” ― Dr. David A. Grimes, M.D., Every Third Woman In America: How Legal Abortion Transformed Our Nation Except a human being represents something greater than just a simple organism. I believe a human being is represented by a greater neural function. "Without this new activity, not only could there be no organization as a whole of a body as complex as the human one, but neither would there be any foundation for the more advanced activities of thought and reasoning which will commence when the brain which enables them has matured sufficiently in experience and structure. Experience in synthesizing, beginning at the simplest level, is a necessary preparation of the brain for thought. Neural functioning both organizes the new body and, as it grows more complex, will enable those mental activities which accord with our understanding of human life." MC, Shea. "Embryonic Life And Human Life. - Pubmed - NCBI ." Ncbi.nlm.nih.gov. Except in this case, it matters a lot. "Scientifically, a zygote is both alive and human, as are the gametes that give rise to it and the cells that result from its division. What is new about a zygote is not that it is alive or human but that it has a new genetic constitution. What is not yet present, however, is a new individual, in the sense of a person as defined by common usage and carried over into our concept of human rights......The key word is "attributes." If the attributes are expressed in terms to which science can be applied, then science can assist the law in establishing the appropriate developing stage.....What is clear, however, is that one widely, though not universally, the accepted attribute is wholeness in the sense of indivisibility. Scientifically, we know that this attribute is not present in the mammalian zygote. Similarly, a widely accepted attribute is sentience or behavior that suggests it. Scientifically, we have good reason to expect that sentience is not present until the nervous system reaches some necessary level of maturation. Dr. Clifford Gorbestien, Science, Technology and Public Affairs, University of California, San Diego Defining Human Life, Science, New Series, Vol. 214, No. 4516 (Oct. 2, 1981) And before you start screaming about personhood, please note that the author is saying speaking about this from a scientific perspective. In that there are clear present scientific traits that are not present int he zygote that would qualifiy it as a human being. The main being a mature nervous system. There is a distinction to be made here between physical dependence and social dependence. Physical dependence does not refer to meeting the physical needs of the child—such as what was implied by your comment. That’s social dependence; that’s where the child depends on society—on other people—to feed it, clothe it, and love it. Physical dependence occurs when one life form depends solely on the physical body of another life form for its existence. And that's the case with the fetus,  It is absolutely dependent on another human being for its continued existence. Without the mother’s life-giving nutrients and oxygen, it would die. Throughout gestation the zygote-embryo-fetus and the mother’s body are symbiotically linked, existing in the same physical space and sharing the same risks. What the mother does affects the fetus. And when things go wrong with the fetus, it affects the mother. I have provided scientific evidence that demonstrates the points I am making. This idea of simply putting the fetus into different categories and then using personalized interpreations to grant it the status of a human organism, or human being is simply incoherent. Keep in mind, the evidence that you and SPL rely is wholly through the testiomy of heavily pro-life doctors and outdated textbooks that say things actual textbook authors disagree with. I believe this is plenty of evidence to suggest that a human being begins with the formation of mature nervous system that produces uniqely human brain activity and this is a far more tenetative position than whatever SPL or you have to provide.
No, we've been consistently discussing the term "organism," as evidenced by your multiple dumb questions regarding tumors and warts being organisms. Now you're shifting the goal posts to talking about "human being." Scientifically speaking, an organism with human DNA is by definition a human organism. You are now equivocating. You originally used the term "human being," which can mean human organism or "person" (ie: human organism I find valuable and which should have legal rights) -- already an equivocation issue -- but then use a quote that refers to "human" the adjective, which is also a different definition. You're also failing to differentiate philosophy and science (again). The quote you provided is from a medical ethics journal. The person is speaking about the philosophical concept of "human," in a philosophical context; not the scientific definition of a human organism in a scientific context. Learn. The. Difference. I will say this as many times as I must: scientists engage in philosophy. You can quote a scientist (unclear if this person is one but let's pretend) all day, every day, and it doesn't mean everything out of their mouth is science. No, I'm sorry, this is still an unbelievably idiotic point. Pro-lifers finding zygotes valuable has literally no bearing on how often they die or vice versa. This is as stupid as saying "In SubSaharan Africa, children die more often than not, which is why women have way more children than they plan on raising because they know not all will survive past age (whatever). Therefore this throws cold water on the claim that every child is valuable." Derp. No, not how it works! Children can still be valuable even if they tend to die. Nope, another really stupid claim. A human organism dying due to a genetic defect =/= not a human organism. That's like saying a 10 year old kid with Downs dying from a congenital heart problem was never human. I realize you're trying here, but your points and questions are not only really bad, but many could be avoided by a simple attempt to anticipate the response, or, you know, take 10 seconds to google a definition. Still equivocating. Your opinion on personhood =/= scientific definition of human organism. Your quote from Dr. Clifford -- see above about scientists talking about philosophy. ("What is not yet present, however, is a new individual, in the sense of a person as defined by common usage and carried over into our concept of human rights"). Repeat it with me: Scientists. Engage. In. Philosophy. "...in the sense of a person as defined by common usage..." * You constantly equivocate and fail to differentiate scientific v philosophical concepts. Being fed is physical; you're referring to a combination of social and physical dependence. No, it doesn't. Food also counts as a physical need. Ok, then provide a modern embryology textbook quote saying that an embryo is not a living human organism. Go on, I would love to see the "new" scientific facts we've uncovered which contradict the ones SPL quoted. Uh no, you've quoted various people's opinions on personhood, not scientific texts stating as such.
This person doesn't care about science. She keeps getting hung over semantics and philosophy and doesn't seem to understand that most of her comments conflate philosophy and science, whilst claiming it is purely science.
PART 1 OF MY RESPONSE I apologize for the late response, but I did want to engage with some of your blatant distortions. False. I was challenging the SPL definition and concept of what you take to be an organism and I was showing how this concept is flawed when determining whether abortion is murder from a scientific perspective. And let me make something clear. Of course, I don't regard tumors and warts as being on part with the fetus, however under your flawed reasoning of what constitutes a human organism and the vague quotations you provide in this matter would consequent that we place those entities in the categories of what constitutes a human organism. In regards to this debate as a whole, this whole idea of putting a fetus into arbitrarily determined categories and trying to present it as a full human organism is flawed. I don't necessarily deny that the fetus is a human organism under some interpretations of those words, I just think it's a flawed idea. In recent years it was discovered that the average “physical human body” is actually composed of something like 9% human cells and 90% bacterial cells. [They mostly co-exist symbiotically, needing each other to survive, as a sort-of overall “society of organisms”, or even an “ecosystem”.] (http://cf.linnbenton.edu/mathsci/bio/bienekr/upload/The_Ultimate_Social_Network.pdf). It starts entering into symbiosis with essential bacteria, becoming a full ecosystem of mutually beneficial organisms. After the process completes, the extremely small bacterial cells will outnumber the large human cells by about ten to one. Just looking at the development and reproduction process shows that there are multiple definitions of what can constitute an organism. But we are not discussing organism, we are discussing human beings, which is why I think the term human being is better in regards to this debate because a Human Being represents something greater than just a pure developmental or genetic descriptor that can be extrapolated to so many different things. Keep in mind that your definitions are also just your personalized interpretations from select textbook quotations and pro-life doctors. What would we should be discussing is whether a fetus is a human being in a purely scientific sense, divorced from its philosophical connotations. "One of the commonest questions asked of the biologist by the earnest inquirer into abortion is this: "When does life begin?" Human life is meant, of course. To this, the biologist must give an answer that is definitive and (unfortunately) initially quite unsatisfactory to the Inquirer: "Never!" Life, evolutionists believe, began once some 3 billion years ago, but it has probably never started again on this earth. Life is merely passed on from one individual to another, from one cell to another........The question laymen are muddling toward is this: When does the life of the individual begin? When are we to call the thing that is alive a "human being"? Hardin, Garrett. “Some Biological Insights into Abortion.” BioScience, vol. 32, no. 9, 1982, pp. 720–727. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/1308717. DNA isn't a factor here. Let's look at how DNA needs to be understood. The human cuticle cell has the full set of DNA, just like any healthy human zygote, and many other types of cells in the human body. DNA is equivalent to computer code; different sections of the code are different programs for doing different things. So, the cuticle cell is “specialized” in the sense that it runs the section of DNA code that tells it how to behave like a cuticle cell; a muscle cell is specialized differently, running the section of DNA code that tells it how to behave like a muscle cell, and the zygote is NOT specialized, though it runs the section of code that tells it how to behave like a zygote. In the overall realm of biological science, stem-cell researchers are looking for how to “activate” a common cell to start running the SAME section of DNA code as a zygote –because then the activated cell will be a “totipotent stem cell”, able to become specialized as any other kind of cell, and will be extremely useful in helping human bodies heal from major damage –for example, a whole new leg could be grown, which would include bone cells, marrow cells, nerve cells, cartilage cells, tendon cells, ligament cells, muscle cells, lymph cells, skin cells, sweat-gland cells, hair-follicle cells, cuticle cells, toenail cells, and probably others as well. Each type of cell normally processes only part of the overall DNA in the cell, the code associated with its specialized purpose, but every single one of all those cells has all the DNA. The zygote itself IS a totipotent stem cell; that’s why it is un unspecialized. As such, it is running the DNA code that tells it to divide multiple times, so that there will be plenty of cells that later can become specialized, as all the various types of cells in a whole human body. And ANY ordinary specialized cell that contains the full set of DNA has the code for how to behave like a zygote. It has the potential to divide many times and yield a complete human body. The potential simply needs to be activated. Stem-cell researchers simply need to figure out how to tell a typical specialized cell to start running human-DNA zygote code. Simply using DNA as a genesis to describe a fully developed human being in the scientific sense just does not work when you consider the modern advancements in reproductive technology and how our understanding of this issue has grown. No. I and the sources I have cited are using the term "human being" in the purely medical and scientific sense. They do invoke the concept of personhood occasionally, but the context of the sources I am citing are from a scientific sense, in discussing the applied scientific concepts that could be used to measure whether the fetus is an individual. And lol what? The entire article provided biological facts and discussed the concept of life from a scientific standpoint. They differentiated between embryonic life and human through scientific reasoning. Trying to dismiss the scientific facts presented in the source just because it's from a bio-ethics journal is like saying an English Major saying 1 + 1 = 2 is wrong because they are not a mathematician. The article itself discusses separately the ethical components of the scientific facts, but they separate the pure science and the ethics of it into separate sections. I quoted the part that dealt with science. And I agree with you, but this is not one of those cases. I am citing scientists that are providing scientific reasoning for their conclusions. Conclusions that you refuse to acknowledge because they are detrimental to your worldview. For example: Dr. Charles Gardner, who did his doctoral research on the genetic control of brain development at the University of Michigan Medical School's Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, writes, "The 'biological' argument that a human being is created at fertilization . . . comes as a surprise to most embryologists . . . for it contradicts all that they have learned in the past few decades.".Gardner notes that in humans when two sibling embryos combine into one . . . the resultant person may be completely normal. If the two original embryos were determined to become particular individuals, such a thing could not happen. The embryos would recognize themselves to be different . . . and would not unite. But here the cells seem unaware of any distinction between themselves . . . The only explanation is that the individual is not fixed or determined at this early stage. Gardner also writes, "The fertilized egg is clearly not a prepackaged human being . . . Our genes give us a propensity for certain characteristics, but it is the enactment of the complex process of development that gives us our individual characteristics. So how can an embryo be a human being?" He further states, "The information required to make an eye or a finger does not exist in the fertilized egg. It exists in the positions and interactions of cells and molecules that will be formed only at a later time." Such research and discoveries lead to the conclusion that a developmental process taking about nine months produces a human being. Therefore the idea that a human exists at conception is a theological statement rather than a medical or scientific fact.
PART 2 OF MY RESPONSE Lol, what? I really don't think you understand the point I am making. The analogy you offer about the mortality rates for fetuses in the process of gestation and born humans are two separate issues. When you discuss the mortality rates of infants (such as children in Africa), you are describing a condition that is subject to change within external factors. We know what a natural human lifespan is and our advancement in medicine and technology have allowed us to reach the extent of what we can measure as the natural human life. The spontaneous abortions that involve embryos is a natural design that has existed as a function of the women's body. Conception is the start of something, but it is more the start of the possible rather than the actual. It is not until a being emerges that has the traits necessary for individual existence that we can and should say a human being exists. The natural and spontaneous abortion of zygotes is simply not comparable to the previous low mortality rates that were observed at various times at Human Culture. Some quotations that illustrate this: "If the Constitution recognized each fertilized ovum as a person, a whole new species of equal protection problem would be born. Each time a state treated a fetus-an "unborn" child-differently from any other child, it would be discriminating against a helpless and manifestly innocent class of people. If a woman's home provided a physical or chemical environment that subjected her children to a 50 percent risk of premature death, the state would surely require those children to be brought up elsewhere." "A similar situation might be imagined in which the state would be obliged to require a woman in whose uterus an embryonic "person" faced a 75 percent chance of spontaneous miscarriage and thus premature death to give up her embryo for gestation by a woman in whose uterus the same embryo, once implanted, would face a significantly better chance of surviving to full term. " Dr. Laurence Tribe, Law professor, Harvard, Abortion: The Clash of Absolutes, 1992, The only thing "unbelievably idiotic" is what you are advocating for when we truly see the consequences of your activism. LOL. I have looked at the SPL position on this and I debate this issue several times. Your resistance to evidence outside your own personal interpretations of selective quotations is evidently the issue here. I have provided several examples of scientific and biological definitions that refute your hypothesis. Yet you simply hand-wave them away and simply try to dismiss them as philosophy when they don't support your world-view. It's not my "opinion" it's a medical theory postulated by a good deal of scientists: "The brain enables our body, our mind, our personality. The brain is the only unique and irreplaceable organ in the human body, as the orchestrator of all organ systems and the seat of personality. Thus, the presence or absence of brain life truly defines the presence or absence of human life in the medical sense. When viewed in this way, human life may be seen as a continuous spectrum between the onset of brain life in utero until the occurrence of brain death. “At any point, human tissue or organ systems may be present, but without the presence of a functional human brain, these do not constitute a 'human being', at least in a medical sense.” JM, Goldenring. "The Brain-Life Theory: Towards A Consistent Biological Definition Of Humanness. - Pubmed - NCBI ." Ncbi.nlm.nih.gov. And oh, before you go screaming about personhood again, the author of the paper seemingly has prepared for organism purists such as yourself: "Before proceeding to the discussion, I need to state a few semantic definitions for the sake of clarity. I will be using the nouns 'human', 'human being' and 'full human" synonymously to refer to creatures with the appropriate chromosomal material. The adjective 'human' may also be applied to tissues with the appropriate chromosomal material, but which I will argue are not sufficiently organized in a biological sense to be considered 'human beings'. The word 'humanness' also will refer to that which in the above sense qualifies biologically and genetically as 'human'. No non-biological implications should be attached to these words, though I will discuss the possible value-laden choices available once the basic biological definitions are established. Therefore, I will seldom use the word 'person' in this paper, because I will be attempting to make scientifically based definitions which are relatively 'value-free' and objective. The term 'person' is highly value-laden and has many meanings depending on the society in which one lives. A 'person' is a human being accorded full rights, protection, and respect. Inherent in the definition of 'person' may be many developmental, religious and social criteria. I will contend that the definition of 'human being' has implications for the definition of a 'person', but that those terms may not be synonymous." JM, Goldenring. "The Brain-Life Theory: Towards A Consistent Biological Definition Of Humanness. - Pubmed - NCBI ." Ncbi.nlm.nih.gov. Once again you seemingly ignore the context of the whole paper I sent you and seemingly cherry pick one line in order to try to discredit the evidence that is present to you. Right after the quote, Dr. Clifford emphasizes that they are things that science can account for. I will quote the relevant bit of information again: "If the attributes are expressed in terms to which science can be applied, then science can assist the law in establishing the appropriate developing stage.....What is clear, however, is that one widely, though not universally, the accepted attribute is wholeness in the sense of indivisibility. Scientifically, we know that this attribute is not present in the mammalian zygote. Similarly, a widely accepted attribute is sentience or behavior that suggests it. Scientifically, we have good reason to expect that sentience is not present until the nervous system reaches some necessary level of maturation. So sure, though he discusses the issue of personhood, he discusses the scientific facts in regards to whether a zygote can be considered an individual or a human being. Dr. Clifford echoes the sentiments of the brain life definition of what constitutes a human being that I provided to you above. I really don't understand how you can keep on arguing that doesn't constitute as scientific evidence, when it's literally one of the nation's top-level biologists saying a zygote doesn't meet the criteria scientifically for us to consider it an individual, in one of the nation's most prestigious peer-reviewed scientific journal. I have yet to see any credible and reputable peer-reviewed journal echo the views you do, and they most likely won't, because the medical community is overwhelmingly pro-choice. Wrong. Being fed is completely different from the situation the zygote is in. Theoretically, if you didn't feed a newborn, it could still survive independently before death. Whereas a zygote needs constant physical sustenance to even have potential to survive. This very situation is already conceded by pro-lifers when they advocate against abortifacients. Many claim RU-486 should be illegal for a mother to take because it causes her uterus to flush its nutrient-rich lining, thus removing a zygote from its necessary support system and, therefore, ending its short existence as a life form. This proves the point of absolute physical dependence that I making.
PART 3 OF MY RESPONSE This response clearly shows me that you haven't been listening to a word I am saying. Your textbooks quotations are simply vague and generalized conceptions. That's what those sentences are doing. These words don't appear in higher-level textbooks, and the reason is that higher-level textbooks need to provide a rationale for what they say. Half your textbooks don't even use the words human organism and instead, use different terms and entities. The main point I showed against this argument is the whole that actual scientific textbook authors agree that textbooks don't actually say anything that suits the pro-life perspective. I have offered the testimony of several reputable and credible textbook authors that clearly explain why textbooks don't say what you actually think you do. You try to twist their statements into meaning things that they don't, but it's almost like telling an author what a book should mean, instead of listening to his interpretation. There are examples of textbooks such as "Essential Reproduction" by Martin Johnson (6th Ed, 2007) used in Yale's reproductive biology courses as seen in this tweet [here] that address the question directly of when life begins and clearly don't say anything that supports your view. Dr. P.Z Myers also addresses question view directly. Now this person wants a specific quote from a biology text that has the words “human life does not begin at conception” in it. That would be tough, because it’s a sentence that rather boggles the brain of any developmental biologist — we also tend not to write sentences like, “human beings are not flies”. We kind of expect that anyone intelligent enough to read the textbook doesn’t need their hand held in superfluous explications of the bleedin’ obvious. But you will find us saying simple things like that in email and conversations and even popular lectures to lay people…such as this talk by Lewis Wolpert. Wolpert is, of course, one of the best known developmental biologists on the planet. He is also the author of a very good introductory text in developmental biology (Principles of Development, one that I use in my classes at UMM, and in this lecture (which you really should watch and listen to in its entirety, it’s very good), he does come right out and say the bleedin’ obvious. “What I’m concerned with is how you develop. I know that you all think about it perpetually that you come from one single cell of a fertilized egg. I don’t want to get involved in religion but that is not a human being. I’ve spoken to these eggs many times and they make it quite clear … they are not human beings.” -- Dr. Lewis Wolpert, (Developmental and evolutionary biologist, author of "Principles of Development" and “Triumph of the Embryo”) https://freethoughtblogs.com/pharyngula/2009/03/17/the-fertilized-egg-is-not-a-hu/#ixzz5HErqWRDR In the end. It's simply a demographics issue. Let's just look at the demographics between those who are pro-life and those who identify as Pro-choice. According to Pew opposition to abortion (making it illegal in all or most cases) is the weakest among liberal Democrats at 8%, among the religiously nonaffiliated it is only 17% among college grads it is 29%. Conversely, opposition to abortion (making it illegal in all or most cases) is the strongest among conservative Republicans at 71%. among white evangelicals it is 70%, among those with a high school education or less it is 53%. http://www.norc.org/PDFs/GSS%20Reports/Trends%20in%20Attitudes%20About%20Abortion_Final.pdf http://news.gallup.com/poll/154946/non-christians-postgrads-highly-pro-choice.aspx So, the facts show that liberal, college educated, non-religious pro-lifers are very much the minority and the vast majority of the pro-life movement is made up conservative, lesser educated, religious folks. So, if the pro-life movement is based on "basic biology" that has nothing to do with religion, why are so few non-religious college graduates in the movement? Better yet, if your movement is based on "basic biology”, why are there no major groups with names like "biologists for life" or "pro-life embryologists"? Why do the majority of reputable medical organization in the world support a women's right to choose? Its okay to have different opinions, but not different facts.
No.  All of the quotations clearly say that an individual human being comes into existence at conception. Since your opener was to completely fail to address the main point, it stands as stated.  I’m dismissing the rest of your word vomit, non-response and blocking you, since you are clearly a troll. Have a day.
Except they didn't.... They are referred to vague notions of "individual or human life". Only 1 of your quotes referred to what constitutes a human being and that was the one by Jerome Lejeune which I showed was not credible. You are only blocking me because you didn't expect a well read and expert refutation of the stock copy and pasting of pro-life textbooks and doctors that pro-lifers have been resorting to for years.
....they're embryology textbooks.
Except it's the same old group Embryology textbooks, through which I have shown that actual textbooks authors, don't regard as evidence in this debate.
You quoted other authors speaking on the topic of philosophy. That's not the same as showing contradictory scientific evidence. The fact that you still don't understand the difference is astounding.
You are mixing up biology with philosophy. You will not find any credible scientific evidence which denies the following facts, 1.) A human embryo is human 2.) A human embryo is distinct from it's parents 3.) A human embryo is an organism 4.) A human embryo is a living thing Which one of these facts do you think is disputable? We are all human. We are all living. We are all genetically distinct from our parents.
No, I am not. I am simply arguing based on scientific facts on what we consider human beings. To argue that life begins at conception is to say there is a potential for a human being to form. (I provided a refutation to the Potentiality argument earlier). Skin cells are human cells. They possess human DNA. They are alive; they are living. They are not a human being. Liver cells are human cells. They possess human DNA. They are alive; they are living. They are not a human being. Stem cells are human cells. They possess human DNA. They are alive; they are living. They are not a human being. Spermatozoa are human cells. They possess human DNA. They are alive; they are living. They are not a human being. Zygotes are human cells. They possess human DNA. They are alive; they are living. They are not a human being. Human beings, like jellyfish and green-blue algae, are colonies. No single cell of ours is a human being or ever could be. Why? Because human beings are colonies with specific expected finished characteristics. An embryo is made of human cells. It possesses human DNA. It is alive; it is living. It is even a colony. But it is not a fully differentiated colony. It is still developing. It is not a human being, but it may develop into one. Because it is developing, and because it is wholly dependent on the woman who must carry it, and because it has the capacity to do great and irreparable harm to that woman, she has the right to choose not to carry it. She may choose, at any point in her carrying, to revoke the embryo’s permit to inhabit her body. Why? Because a woman has human cells. A woman possesses human DNA. She is alive; she is living. She is a full colony. She has developed EEG waves. A woman is a human being. She is recognized under the law as owning her own body. And that woman is more important than any potential children she may have. Once those children have been born, they become equally important; but they are never, never more important than she is. Because these are completely misconstrued arguments in the abortion debate. But I will find examples of people who clearly argue that life doesn't begin at fertilization/conception. Paulson, Richard J. M.D "The Unscientific Nature Of The Concept That “Human Life Begins At Fertilization,” And Why It Matters." Fertility and Sterility 107.3 (2017): 566-567. Web. 21 May 2018.
Why is a zygote not a human being? You listed some similarities to other cells, but not the differences. The zygote possesses human DNA, but more importantly, it possesses its own unique, specific set of human DNA. It also exhibits all the characteristics of life: cell organization, response to stimuli, ability to reproduce, adaptation to environment, maintainance of internal balance, and the ability to grow and develop. A zygote can have its own race, sex, sexuality, hair color, etc completely separate from its mother. It can feasibly live and die separately from her. You say an embryo is "still developing," but everyone is still developing. Technically, we aren't fully developed until adulthood, and the human brain keeps developing into its 20s. This is not a good basis for discrediting an embryo's humanity. Pro-lifers aren't arguing that the woman's child is "more important" than she is. They're arguing that a woman should not be able to kill her unborn child. It's a completely different argument (and before you bring up the very rare life-or-death scenarios, nearly 100% of pro-lifers support a woman being allowed to defend herself in the case of an actual life-threatening pregnancy). I am discouraged to see you still linking to Dr. Robert Wyman's lecture after I pointed out how flawed his argument was last time. Again, he's conflating the use of the phrase "when life begins" to mean "when (all) life began on this planet," rather than "when (an individual human's) life begins." "Life is a continuum" is not a valid counterargument; it's mixing definitions. And lo and behold, Dr. Paulson makes this exact same erroneous argument in his article. He even compares the zygote with the gamete (egg) because of their similar size. It really sounds like he's scraping the bottom of the barrel. Before Dr. Paulson goes off on strawmanning pro-lifers as only having religious reasons to have the beliefs they do, his second and final point is simply that because the cells in an embryo could theoretically make human clones, life doesn't begin at conception, and backs this up with the twinning example. Unfortunately, that's not a convincing argument either, since you have to look no further than the common earthworm to disprove it; since an earthworm can become two individuals, does that mean it wasn't a single organism prior to that?
PART 1 OF MY RESPONSE A fertilized egg, a clump of cells with no brain, is hardly deserving of the same moral status we confer on the newborn child or the functioning adult. Mere possession of the genetic material for a future human being does not make a human being. The developing embryo that becomes a fetus that becomes a baby is the product of a dynamic interaction with its environment in the womb, it's postnatal experiences and a host of other factors. A purely genetic description of the human species does not describe a human being. A human being represents a whole other level of organization, as distinct from a simple embryo as an embryo is distinct from an egg and sperm. It is the dynamics of genes and environment that make a human being. A unique genome is not required to form a human being (e.g. identical twins, or clones, or human parthenotes) and unique genomes often do not form human beings (e.g. mutated genomes of cancers or the modified genome of induced pluripotent stem cells). Unless we are willing to admit that melanomas are actually human beings because they have a different genome and that a woman who is pregnant with her clone (or an identical twin) is not actually pregnant with a human being, then this argument should be abandoned. So? A single-cell ameba also coverts nutrients and oxygen into biological energy that causes its cells to divide, multiply and grow. It also contains a full set of its own DNA. I really don't see how meeting the basic characteristics of life is a reason we should protect the rights of the fetus. This is one of my biggest issues in this debate. Pro-Lifers can't seem to provide a consistent or authoritative definition of what it means to be a human being. Instead, they reach out and grab several other criteria's that could be applied to different entities of life and then just jumble them together and go "A-Ha! A fetus is a human being!" This isn't how science works. You form a hypothesis and experiment to figure to see if that hypothesis is met. That is why I personally hold to the idea of the brain life theory. As quoted by the JM Goldenring the original author of this idea: "The brain enables our body, our mind, our personality. The brain is the only unique and irreplaceable organ in the human body, as the orchestrator of all organ systems and the seat of personality. Thus, the presence or absence of brain life truly defines the presence or absence of human life in the medical sense. When viewed in this way, human life may be seen as a continuous spectrum between the onset of brain life in utero until the occurrence of brain death. “At any point, human tissue or organ systems may be present, but without the presence of a functional human brain, these do not constitute a 'human being', at least in a medical sense.”. We then conduct experimentation to figure at what point we could say a fetus meets the criteria of being a human being, and from there we come to a concrete definition. This is why I can never find a peer-reviewed study that comes to the conclusion of a human being beginning at fertilization or conception. Except the development of the embryo is happening at a stage where it is not independent. "We must not confuse potentiality with actuality. An embryo is a potential human being. It can, granted the woman’s choice, develop into an infant. But what it actually is during the first trimester is a mass of relatively undifferentiated cells that exist as a part of a woman’s body. If we consider what it is rather than what it might become, we must acknowledge that the embryo under three months is something far more primitive than a frog or a fish. To compare it to an infant is ludicrous. . . . That tiny growth, that mass of protoplasm, exists as a part of a woman’s body. It is not an independently existing, biologically formed organism, let alone a person. That which lives within the body of another can claim no right against its host. Rights belong only to individuals, not to collectives or to parts of an individual." Leonard Peikoff And I addressed your assertions last time as well. Dr. Wyman actually discussed why fertilization isn't a good starting point for life either on basis of individual life later in the lecture I sent you last time. Now more educated people, when discussing this in more detail, understand that it’s a cycle but they decide that fertilization is the final genetic–sets the final genetic constitution of the fetus and therefore we can legitimately say–point to that as the origin point. Of course, that’s not true. At the time of fertilization the nucleus of the egg is still diploid. It’s only after fertilization and sometime later, that the female nucleus goes through its final decision and that’s random which chromosomes are going to be included in the embryo and which chromosomes are not. The final–part of the step–one of the steps of the final genetic constitution happens after fertilization if you again define fertilization as the entry of the sperm. And then even later, the female has two Xs, but in every cell, only one X is going to be active. Again, at a later stage, in fact, way after this multi-cellular division has already taken place, in each cell one of the Xs gets inactivated and basically crumples up and gets thrown away. The final genetic constitution is not set until a good bit of time after fertilization. He is just referring to two things in the beginning. 1. Saying "life begins at conception is inaccurate" and 2. Many Textbooks don't actually say this. For the record here are Dr. Wyman's qualifications: Professor of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1998‑present Program Director, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Undergraduate Science Education Program, 1989‑present Professor of Biology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1980‑1998). He is one of the most reputable experts on the issue. And he is giving a non-partisan, accredited academic lecture at one of the world's most prestigious institutions. I have yet to receive a single piece of evidence from the Pro-Life perspective that reaches this level of objective credibility. No. Dr. Paulson is simply discussing how a fetus is not an individual he discusses how the term “human life” implies individuality, which is also not consistent with scientific observations. But at the same time, we realize that each of the totipotent cells that comprise these embryos is, at least theoretically, capable of producing a completely new individual. Indeed, multiple individuals can arise from the implantation of a single embryo, as in the case of identical twins. Therefore, we know that the preimplantation embryo is not actually an individual. The preimplantation embryo is essentially an aggregate of stem cells, which has the potential to produce a pregnancy, including placental and fetal tissues, assuming that it successfully implants in a receptive endometrium. It is only after implantation that the early embryo can further differentiate into the organized cell groups that enable the developing conceptus to progress further in embryonic and eventually fetal development. I would also say the twinning and cloning examples are still significant objections, that you have not your analogy doesn't really answer.
PART 2 OF MY RESPONSE There is some truth to Dr. Paulson's statements. Let's just look at the demographics between those who are pro-life and those who identify as Pro-choice. According to Pew opposition to abortion (making it illegal in all or most cases) is the weakest among liberal Democrats at 8%, among the religiously nonaffiliated it is only 17% among college grads it is 29%. Conversely, opposition to abortion (making it illegal in all or most cases) is the strongest among conservative Republicans at 71%. among white evangelicals it is 70%, among those with a high school education or less it is 53%. http://www.norc.org/PDFs/GSS%20Reports/Trends%20in%20Attitudes%20About%20Abortion_Final.pdf http://news.gallup.com/poll/154946/non-christians-postgrads-highly-pro-choice.aspx So, the facts show that liberal, college educated, non-religious pro-lifers are very much the minority and the vast majority of the pro-life movement is made up conservative, lesser educated, religious folks. So, if the pro-life movement is based on "basic biology" that has nothing to do with religion, why are so few non-religious college graduates in the movement? Better yet, if your movement is based on "basic biology”, why are there no major groups with names like "biologists for life" or "pro-life embryologists"? Why do the majority of the reputable medical organization in the world support a women's right to choose? Its okay to have different opinions, but not different facts. At the end of the day, I am going to trust a trained OB/GYN from a reputable institution who is the president of one of the largest and most prestigious organizations involved in reproductive medicine, over a group of Catholic redditors with a biased agenda.
Thanks for putting so much effort into your reply. If you’re anything like me, you may find that making giant quote trees back-and-forth can get tiresome, so I’ll do my best to try to compress our points of disagreement a bit so neither of us have to be on Reddit for half the day…! Your description of a fertilized egg (“A clump of cells with no brain”) is non-scientific. I’m sure you’ve heard the “We’re all clumps of cells” retort before, but you’ll keep hearing it as long as you continue to trot out this silly phrase meant to dehumanize the unborn. As for “no brain,” this isn’t an agreed-upon metric for whether something is a human life or not, so it’s irrelevant. Neither is there an agreed-upon metric for your assertion that “it is the dynamics of genes and environment that make a human being.” You’re right in that a unique genome is not the only set of requirements, but that is why I went on to list the characteristics of life. Your example of an amoeba proves my point that regardless of size, single-celled organisms exist. This does not mean a newly-formed zygote has the same value as an amoeba based on its cell count, just as an adult human does not have the same value as, say, an adult horse. An amoeba is not a human. Your paragraph where you explain your issue with pro-lifers approaches this subject from a few different angles: and.. To answer the second quote first, there’s a very clear definition of what it means to be a human being: the scientific one that I just described. Yes, it also applies to an amoeba. Amoebae are not homo sapiens. Every organism is part of some species and there are no “non-species organisms”; the zygote is literally a human at its youngest stage. The first quote is a question of ethics; in all other cases, it’s wrong to withhold the right to life (by denying personhood) to humans. Given that a fetus is a human life, it deserves the same basic right to life that all humans get. Peikoff is arguing from a philosophical standpoint rather than a scientific one, and that paragraph has all sorts of issues. He’s not providing any reason that the embryo is “a potential human being.” It does not exist as “part of a woman’s body,” because that would mean its first week in existence—before adhering to the wall of the uterus—it would be NOT part of the woman’s body. In other words, with his logic, the zygote starts off as its own distinct life, then becomes part of the woman’s body, then becomes its own thing again. When does it NOT become part of the woman’s body? Birth? Why is it “not an independently existing, biologically formed organism?” When was this written? A lot of this isn’t even relevant since a great deal of abortions happen at 7 weeks or later, after the brain has started to form. To address the last points, we have to get a little more detail-oriented. When pro-lifers say “human beings begin at fertilization,” this is essentially a shortcut for simplicity’s sake, referring to the vast (vast) majority of cases. It’s simpler and punchier to say this than “human beings begin when a new human organism begins the process of human development,”—which, in nearly all cases, is fertilization. In the exceptional cases, (like when a twin comes into existence) the process of human development may not begin at fertilization (or for the opposite example, cases like hydatidiform moles where ). There are exceptions to fertilization itself beginning the process, but this does not mean fertilization is not the starting point for the vast majority of fetuses. And with that comes the breakdown of what “fertilization” actually means; as Dr. Wyman points out, “fertilization” has a few steps across a small amount of time. A few hours after the sperm enters the egg, syngamy occurs—this is when the two pronuclei fuse and is generally acknowledged as the moment the zygote becomes a zygote. Some pro-lifers might argue for the instant a sperm and egg meet being the start of new life, as fertilization has begun at that point despite the egg’s nucleus still being diploid. I feel that our knowledge of science is slightly limited in pinpointing the change down to the second, but that level of precision is irrelevant to the discussion at hand. Once fertilization is complete (which takes less than a day), the result is a new organism. Discarding that basic biological fact out because there is a tiny window of time when the cells are fusing is throwing the baby out with the bathwater (if you’ll pardon the expression)! What makes Dr. Wyman’s claims so much more non-partisan than any other embryologist’s or biologist’s? You say you have yet to receive any pro-life evidence that reaches that level of objective credibility? Are you sure you aren’t just hand-waving away a ton of sources that you happen to disagree with? Did you actually research the backgrounds of the 40+ different textbook quotes that make the rounds in these debates? Why do you take issue with them in the first place? Now, to address Dr. Paulson’s argument again: This is a non-sequitur—it does not follow. As I mentioned before, earthworms easily disprove this. In fact… Isn’t this true of adult humans too? You could theoretically clone someone using cells from your body, but it does not follow that the source of those cells (you) is not an individual. Heck, if making a new creature means one isn’t an individual, than anyone who’s ever procreated wouldn’t be a human. I’ll accept your sources that more pro-lifers are religious. Heck, full disclosure—I’m a proud Catholic pro-lifer. But that doesn’t change the fact that Dr. Paulson is making a classic genetic fallacy, attacking the sources rather than the arguments. I have been careful not to use any religious arguments in these posts because this discussion has not been from a religious perspective (which requires different tools and a different ruleset). Just saying your opponents have "a biased agenda" is a cheap shot--everyone has some level of bias if they're debating about it online to such a degree. And to answer your questions, I didn’t say the pro-life movement was based on basic biology, nor is there reason to believe that even if biologists unianimously agreed about the unborn’s humanity that they’d be pro-life. A ton of pro-choicers acknowledge the life of the unborn. Whew. Anyway, I hope that cleared up a few things. I kinda like debating this stuff, but it can be tiresome, so maybe next time we can do something less…like, long…!
PART 1 OF MY RESPONSE I apologize for the late reply but given your effort and detail, I do believe you deserve a response. I also would like to thank you for engaging in this discussion in a civil and kind manner. I apologize for the sloppy language, but in essence, I still believe it is true. It is true that a zygote is unique in that it is a germ cell that will start to grow into a separate human being. But the point is that, in terms of its complexity and essence, at conception, a zygote is on the same dimension of complexity as the sperm and egg (i.e., they all exist, like the cells in my arm, at the biological dimension of complexity). The bottom line here is that just because something is alive and is human, it does not follow that the entity is a fully functioning human being. Biologically speaking, such an embryo is far more primitive than a fish or a bird. Anatomically, its brain has yet to develop, so in terms of its capacity for consciousness, it doesn’t bear the remotest similarity to a human being. This growth of cells has the potential to become a human being–if preserved, fed, nurtured, and brought to term by the woman that it depends on–but it is not actually a human being. Analogously, seeds can become mature plants–but that hardly makes a pile of acorns equal to a forest. It pretty implausible to consider an embryo a person, given that they have little to no nervous system. The fact that an embryo has human DNA does not prove it is a person because human tissue samples have human DNA and human tissue samples are not individual human beings. Reflex movements and hormonal stress responses provide information about sensory connections at lower levels of the nervous system and cannot be assumed to indicate perception or awareness. For perception or awareness, the sensory information needs to be transmitted to the thalamus, the major subcortical sensory nucleus and then to the cortex, the highest region of the brain. Actually, it's a medical theory postulated by a good deal of scientists: "The brain enables our body, our mind, our personality. The brain is the only unique and irreplaceable organ in the human body, as the orchestrator of all organ systems and the seat of personality. Thus, the presence or absence of brain life truly defines the presence or absence of human life in the medical sense. When viewed in this way, human life may be seen as a continuous spectrum between the onset of brain life in utero until the occurrence of brain death. “At any point, human tissue or organ systems may be present, but without the presence of a functional human brain, these do not constitute a 'human being', at least in a medical sense.” JM, Goldenring. "The Brain-Life Theory: Towards A Consistent Biological Definition Of Humanness. - Pubmed - NCBI ." Ncbi.nlm.nih.gov. And before you make charges of this arguing on the basis of philosophy, the author of the paper does address those claims too. "Before proceeding to the discussion, I need to state a few semantic definitions for the sake of clarity. I will be using the nouns 'human', 'human being' and 'full human" synonymously to refer to creatures with the appropriate chromosomal material. The adjective 'human' may also be applied to tissues with the appropriate chromosomal material, but which I will argue are not sufficiently organized in a biological sense to be considered 'human beings'. The word 'humanness' also will refer to that which in the above sense qualifies biologically and genetically as 'human'. No non-biological implications should be attached to these words, though I will discuss the possible value-laden choices available once the basic biological definitions are established. Therefore, I will seldom use the word 'person' in this paper, because I will be attempting to make scientifically based definitions which are relatively 'value-free' and objective. The term 'person' is highly value-laden and has many meanings depending on the society in which one lives. A 'person' is a human being accorded full rights, protection, and respect. Inherent in the definition of 'person' may be many developmental, religious and social criteria. I will contend that the definition of 'human being' has implications for the definition of a 'person', but that those terms may not be synonymous." JM, Goldenring. "The Brain-Life Theory: Towards A Consistent Biological Definition Of Humanness. - Pubmed - NCBI ." Ncbi.nlm.nih.gov. Here is another quotation from the peer-reviewed and premier journal of science on a letter that was titled "Defining Human Life" "Scientifically, a zygote is both alive and human, as are the gametes that give rise to it and the cells that result from its division. What is new about a zygote is not that it is alive or human but that it has a new genetic constitution. What is not yet present, however, is a new individual, in the sense of a person as defined by common usage and carried over into our concept of human rights......The key word is "attributes." If the attributes are expressed in terms to which science can be applied, then science can assist the law in establishing the appropriate developing stage.....What is clear, however, is that one widely, though not universally, the accepted attribute is wholeness in the sense of indivisibility. Scientifically, we know that this attribute is not present in the mammalian zygote. Similarly, a widely accepted attribute is sentience or behavior that suggests it. Scientifically, we have good reason to expect that sentience is not present until the nervous system reaches some necessary level of maturation. Dr. Clifford Gorbestien, Science, Technology and Public Affairs, University of California, San Diego Defining Human Life, Science, New Series, Vol. 214, No. 4516 (Oct. 2, 1981) I suggest that there can be objective, scientific criteria for setting at least certain minimum time requirements for fetal development to reach the beginnings of being a human person. Indeed, the well-known principle that ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny already suggests this. The criteria for human death may help us in deciding on the advent of human life. We now generally agree that appropriate functioning of the brain is the a critical requirement for human existence. When the brain, particularly the forebrain portion, is judged to be irreversibly dead, we agree human life has ceased to exist. Even though the heart, kidneys, muscles, sensory nerves, and so forth, are still functional, an individual with an irreversibly nonfunctional brain is properly regarded as no longer alive human person. Since we accept the central requirement of a functioning brain that has at least some semblance of what we call human qualities, before admitting that even an otherwise live human body can be a human person we can apply this criterion to the case of the fetus. Dr. Benjamin Libet, Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco 94143 "Human Life'' Testimony.” Science, vol. 213, no. 4504, 1981, pp. 154–156. JSTOR, JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/1687120. So there you go. 3 peer-reviewed sources, published in prestigious medical and scientific journals that clearly address the topic of when human life begins and provide a scientific answer to it. I have yet to see any Pro-Life sources achieve this level of credibility. Except for the characteristics of life don't really support your argument as they could be applied to every single biological feature that is living, even single-celled organism. And then simply applying the criterion of what constitutes a human organism by looking at the DNA of said entity isn't scientific either since you are taking two distinct categories and trying to place them together to come up with a tenuous form of terminology to advance your worldview. When it comes to human beings I would argue the definition of what constitutes an organism is fairly different. An organism is an organized whole, the parts of which share a common life. An individual cell answers this description but it seems that the multiplying ball of cells of which the zygote consists does not. It is not yet an organized whole but a collection of individual organisms loosely held together by the jelly-like coating of the original ovum; a colony rather than an organism. Some of these cells will eventually form the placenta and others the embryo. Life is not a state but an activity; the nature of the life of a living organism is indicated by the nature of its activity. If the life of the zygote - or rather, the life of its individual cells - is not yet a human being, there ought to be evidence at some later stage of a change of nature. That change would be evident in the becoming present of new activities, or of new abilities giving the potentiality for new activities: not a change of activity such that some ability already latent begins to show itself, but a change which indicates that new abilities and therefore new potentialities have become present. The second answer to be sought, therefore, is whether at any stage in the process of development there is any such evidence of a change of nature. I would argue that this does not happen till a functioning brain.
PART 2 OF MY RESPONSE Except it isn't though. Your "scientific" definition is simply labeling something as an organism and then saying it's human based on its DNA, and then saying it's a human organism by throwing those two terms together. That's not how science works. The fertilized egg bears no quality that makes it human other than its DNA. But all of one's cells contain one's DNA. Are all our cells human organisms? They are all capable of producing individuals through cloning. Miscarriages often result from mangled genetics are these human if only 95% of the DNA is uncorrupted? Suppose that only the 95% we share with chimpanzees are the uncorrupted genes, is the miscarriage both chimpanzee and human? Is a siamese twin one or two organisms? The use of the term organism is one of convenience. In order to understand concepts we use categories and nomenclature to make things intelligible to one and other but the naming has no effect on what it is we are naming. After 7 years or there about all cells within our body have been replaced, but we are the sum of those cells so after 7 years are we a different organism? A different person? Am I the same person today that I was yesterday? Or am I a different person? Sperm cells are also "human life" as I mentioned earlier too. Do they deserve the right to life? Rights come from is from human sapience. We have the ability to think, to reason. We, alone on planet Earth, are self-aware. It makes us human beings and not animals. Therefore, from our cognitive ability, we have the natural right to liberty, to have freedom of thought and speech and religion (or lack thereof.) And because we have a natural right to liberty, we also have a natural right to life, to keep that liberty going (because, obviously, killing us would also attack our natural right to liberty.) And derived from those two rights, there is a natural right to property, or to owning that which we legitimately acquire. And also, I would argue, we have a natural right to revolution–that when institutions threaten our natural rights, we have the right, or perhaps better described as the duty, to reform or fix those institutions. Whether that involves public education, advocacy, electoral campaigns, referenda, civil disobedience, or at the very extreme end of the scale, armed revolt, we have a right to fix those institutions that harm us and threaten our rights. Now why am I going into rights theory? I delve into this academic subject because there is really only one category of entity that has rights: people. Inanimate objects such as rocks, computers, and my foot do not have rights. Ideas and dreams do not rights. Fictional characters do not have rights. Abstract notions such as “a society” or “a culture” do not have rights either. I anticipate you will bring up tragic examples of the Jews, Disabled, Native Americans and Slavery, as examples on why we can't define personhood or life, but these points are moot and invalid. Because these definitions were established on a personal discriminatory basis without any scientific, medical, biologically or ethical basis. The point is, individual persons have rights. A fetus is not an individual person. Peikoff is simplifying a lot of scientific points that come with the issue of saying that a fetus is an actual human being. I think this quote expands a lot of the reasoning that Peikoff discussed. "The commencement of cellular differentiation is evidence that the embryo has now become organized, but there is no evidence from its activity to suggest that the life of this new organism is human. Building the new body by cellular replication according to genetic instructions interacting with environmental factors is no more than the cellular activity which will continue to build and maintain and repair the body tissues for many years to come. It is not the activity we mean when we speak of human life. It is when this more complex organism begins to function as a whole that another level of activity appears, built upon the first: the reception and synthesising by the brain of neural impulses transmitting information from within the embryo's own body and from its uterine surroundings, an activity which triggers off appropriate reactions for controlling the whole body's parts and systems as one. This degree of organization was neither needed at the beginning of the embryonic stage nor was it possible until the neural system could function." MC, Shea. "Embryonic Life And Human Life. - Pubmed - NCBI ." Ncbi.nlm.nih.gov. This is not how brain development works though.  In The Conscious Brain, Steven Rose, a British neurophysiologist, observes that "before 28 weeks the patterns are very simple and lacking in any of the characteristic forms which go to make up the adult EEG pattern." Then, between the 28th and 32nd weeks, the theta, delta, and alpha waves of the adult make their appearance—at first only periodically, "occurring in brief, spasmodic bursts; but after 32 weeks the pattern of waves becomes more continuous, and characteristic differences begin to appear in the EEG pattern of the waking and sleeping infant." American neuroscientist Dominick P. Purpura concurs with Rose. In a recent interview, Purpura defined "brain life" as "the capacity of the cerebral cortex, or the thinking portion of the brain, to begin to develop consciousness, self-awareness and other generally recognized cerebral functions as a consequence of the formation of nerve cell circuits." Brain life, said Purpura, begins between the 28th and 32nd weeks of pregnancy. Extensive EEG studies have been done on premature babies. A very good summary of their findings can be found in Pain and its effects in the human neonate and fetus," a review article (often cited by "pro-lifers" writing about fetal pain, but not about brain development) by K.J.S. Anand, a leading researcher on pain in newborns, and P.R. Hickey, published in NEJM: "Functional maturity of the cerebral cortex is suggested by fetal and neonatal electroencephalographic patterns...First, intermittent electroencephalograpic bursts in both cerebral hemispheres are first seen at 20 weeks gestation; they become sustained at 22 weeks and bilaterally synchronous at 26 to 27 weeks." We don't see any uniquely human level of reasoning till 7 to 9 months. Colonnese, M. et al. Developmental switch in sensory signal processing in visual cortex prior to the onset of vision. Society for Neuroscience  Meetings 2008, abstract 724.8 So while the brain itself may be formed early on. The actual level of unique human reasoning that develops in the fetus isn't present till 7 to 9 months. I really think you overlook the twinning example. The view that a human organism comes into existence at—or at the end of—fertilization is logically untenable and unscientific, because a fertilized egg may split and produce twins. If it is even physically possible for a fertilized egg to produce twins (whether it actually does so or not), a fertilized egg cannot be identical to an organism. As long as it is possible to twin, a zygote is not a human anything, but a cell cluster. In the case of twinning, neither of the two humans that eventually develop can be identified as the same human as the zygote, because they can’t both be so, as they are different humans from one another. It is logically impossible for one organism to be identical to two organisms. And, of course, anything that is logically impossible is biologically impossible. In twinning, two (or more) twins come from a single fertilized egg. But neither of the twins is identical to that fertilized egg, on pain of contradiction. To see this, suppose that a zygote (a cell cluster) divides and twins result. Call the zygote “A,” and one of the twins “B” and the other twin “C.” If A were identical to both B and C, then—by the transitivity of identity—B and C would be identical to each other. But B is clearly not identical to C. Therefore, A (the zygote) cannot be identical to B and C. A human organism cannot come into existence until there is no further possibility of “twinning".
PART 3 OF MY RESPONSE Of course, I acknowledge the process of what fertilization is. It's not an issue when discussing things with educated pro-lifers as yourself, but it is a point to be made when people try to pinpoint one singular point in the fertilization process. Likewise, I still don't think this argument is very persuasive because it suffers from a bunch of problems. To cite the research paper: Dawson, Karen. “Fertilisation and Moral Status: A Scientific Perspective.” Journal of Medical Ethics, vol. 13, no. 4, 1987,  JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/27716625. which I think addresses your claims quite nicely. They label the argument you provide: The discontinuity-continuity argument "In contrast to this continuity, fertilization is seen as a radical discontinuity or 'transformation' in development. It is then argued that the union of the two gametes to form the single zygote at fertilization is the only discrete stage at which it can be claimed that a human entity begins to exist." They respond to this by saying: "The emphasis for this interpretation of continuity, known as numerical continuity, is on the change from two gametes to one zygote that is continuous throughout all following development. As previously mentioned, in the formation of triploid individuals more than two entities may sometimes participate in fertilisation. A further deviation of this occurs with parthenogenesis - development of the egg without fertilisation by a sperm. At present this holds only a little relevance to human reproduction, as so far as is known no births have resulted from this process, although the initial stages of parthenogenetic development have been observed rarely in vitro. Here, there is no numerical discontinuity unless, unless the environmental agent inducing parthenogenetic development is treated as a pre-fertilisation entity that is incorporated into the 'zygote' at the onset of development. But this approach implies that environment is irrelevant in the events of normal fertilization, which leads to an arbitrary and unsatisfactory distinction not reflecting the actual course of events." Dawson, Karen. “Fertilisation and Moral Status: A Scientific Perspective.” Journal of Medical Ethics, vol. 13, no. 4, 1987,  JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/27716625. which I think addresses your claims quite nicely.* In essence, what you are trying to argue as a key moment in the process of fertilization simply does not reflect the actual biological happenings that occur within this context. I (and advancements in science) still disagree. You have to first define what type of organism you are describing. Many pro-lifers try to cite the idea of human organisms to provide a greater emphasis on the term, but this doesn't seem to reflect the science we have on hand today. Also consider the outcome of dispermy. If dispermy occurs it may predispose to a tumorous condition known as a hydatidiform mole. In such an event embryonic development may not occur. The medical concern with the formation of moles is that they may become malignant and life-threatening for the mother, but here they serve as an example of how fertilization may not necessarily lead to the formation of a zygote. Thank you for bringing up this question. I think it's very important for us too look very objectively at these claims and make sure we are not dismissing facts that our cognitive bias would not want to acknowledge. Since this is a fairly important issue. I will address the claims you have made here separately. I think context is a very important issue. When I cite Dr. Wyman, I am not citing him from any news article or publication. I am citing him directly from the Yale University open courses page found here:. Despite what the alt-right like to think, Yale is one of the most prestigious universities in the world. This prestige especially carries through in biological sciences section where Dr. Wyman teaches. Every course has to be accredited and reviewed to the highest standards, especially at an Ivy Leauge institution. That is why I consider the lecture and the quotes from Wyman to be highly credible because it is presented in an objective and academic setting and it has most likely been previously reviewed and found to meet the high standards of teaching required of Yale University. When it comes to Pro-Life Doctors. The lists of doctors that you and many pro-lifers bring up is taken from a singular event. This was senate hearings on conducted hearings on a piece of legislation known as the Human Life Bill. It was put by a freshman senator and soon lost support from major republicans once they realized how much of a mess it was. They brought in 7 Anti-Abortion Doctors (each had extensive ties with anti-abortion organizations as documented by the ACLU) and they were given very strict interpretations on what to say and were limited from using terms. The goal was to get a vague set of statements so that the Bill Author could say all these scientists agreed with him, but the scam was rightly called out by one of the pro-choice doctors present and eventually, the bill died because everyone admitted that it wasn't honest. You can read more on it here: https://www.washingtonpost.com/archive/politics/1981/04/29/the-facts-of-life-scam/051ec109-fb96-4c2f-99ef-aad4b33707e4/?utm_term=.2a958a0f01c9 In essence, this why I don't regard these quotations as valid because of they politically fueled and vague and the end result of the bill failing shows that they even the majority of the people at the time understood the issues here. When we contrast this with the clear and objective citation of that Dr. Wyman provides, the difference is clear. I haven't. I always ask pro-lifers to find me a peer-reviewed, scientific and organizationally endorsed piece of research like the article by Dr. Richard Paulson or some of the Scientific Journals I have provided and cited in this response. I so far haven't received anything. I also ask for Pro-Lifers to cite a respective, credible and objective organization such as the American Medical Association, the World Medical Association, or the ARHP (whom all support abortion btw), and they also still can't find anything there. When weighing the evidence, it does make me wonder that Pro-Lifers have to keep on sharing the same textbook quotes and doctors from they used share in the 1970s, while the Pro-Choice movement gains more research in support of it everyday.
PART 4 OF MY RESPONSE I do take these quotes seriously. And that is why I have looked for what actual scientific textbook authors say such as P.Z Myers, Scott Gilbert, Dr. Wyman, Dr. Ricki Lewis and others who clearly demonstrate that in their capacity as textbook authors that most traditional textbooks do not emphasize or even say these things. Here is an example of textbook currently used in Yale's reproductive biology courses that address the question of when life begins head on and doesn't say anything about the fetus being an organism. It seems Pro-Lifers just take vague interpretations of these quotes to try to fuel their narrative since they can't find a direct source that addresses the issue. And it's not just you, even the best and most intellectual pro-lifers do the same thing such as conservative and Catholic intellectual Robert P. George. This is an excerpt from an NY Times review of his book Embyro, which cites the same textbooks as you and many pro-lifers do. "While quoting from embryology textbooks, the authors omit passages that confound their bootstrap theory. One such passage reports that “the early embryo and the female reproductive tract influence one another” as the embryo is “being transported” to the uterus. Another observes that “implantation requires a high degree of preparation and coordination by both the embryo and the endometrium” — preparation that begins, on the womb’s part, well before conception. Maternal factors don’t just facilitate the embryo’s program; they direct it. Maternal RNA guides the embryo’s early organization. Later, factors in the womb apparently influence traits like sexual orientation." So as you can see. This whole using textbook to justify your position is very old and ultimately not a valid means of evidence. And oh, btw Dr. Moore, the author of the main textbook that pro-lifers like to cite, apparently though the Quran "was very" accurate when it came to human embryology.. I really am not sure if you want to cite an embryology textbook from someone who thought the Quran was apparently a good source of scientific embryology. I really don't see how they do. "An individual (Latin in = not, divide- us - divisible) is defined as an indivisible single entity. A person or human individual must, therefore have the characteristic of indivisibility. An egg after fertilization is a zygote, a single cell that divides if development continues. Since not indivisible, a zygote cannot be considered an individual or person. Confirmation is provided by the observation that each monozygotic twin is a whole individual and not the half individ- ual (a self--contradictory term) that would be implied by a legislated assertion that a zygote is a person. The division leading to twinning may begin as late as 16 days after fertilization, but even then no individual exists for there is a later major division, and it is characteristic not just of twins but all conceptuses that attain live birth. A conceptus, for which there is no layman's synonym, is a fertilized egg and every- thing that develops from it until it is born." -- Dr. Bent G. Boving, C. S Mott Center for Human Growth and Development, "Human Life'' Testimony.” Science, vol. 213, no. 4504, 1981, pp. 154–156. JSTOR, JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/1687120. That's not really the argument that is being made. When you say that life begins at conception you are saying that a human being exists at the moment when haploid human gametes fuse into a fertilized diploid human egg. Saying life begins at conception basically means that a single cell is in fact a human being. There is a reason not a single scientific organization supports this idea. Sometime in the not very distant future, probably in our quest to understand cancer, we will discover the mechanisms for unlocking the genetic code which prevents unchecked cell division. Since every single human cell contains the full genetic information of every other cell, it will become possible to take a skin cell and cause it to divide and differentiate into any desired organ, or even into a complete human being, genetically identical to the donor. The process is called 'cloning'. Will we then say that every skin cell is a human being? Rather should we not say that both zygotes and skin cells represent potential human beings with differing probabilities of actually becoming a full human? Valuing the point of conception is an unreasonable scientific position, it should be realized that one is putting a premium on is a potential and probability for humanness, and that it is not necessarily true that a fertilized egg is, in fact, a full human being at conception. I think they would though. If the science actually proved that the fetus was individual, living human being, than most of our county's medical insitutions would be pro-life. Being pro-life would be the norm and the scientifically based position. Instead it is something that is overwheminlgy religious. I do appreciate the civil and engageing conversation as well, I apologize for the late response, but I did feel your effort filled response, did deserve a response. I look forward to engaging with you on this issue in the future.

You definitely are mixing it up. All your links present philosophical arguments not biological ones. You're argument takes a huge leap in logic. All the things you mention possess human dna and are living things but those two things are not what constitutes an individual being. The distinction an embryo has from their parents and the fact that it is an organism rather than mere cells belonging to a larger organism  is what gives an embryo the status of a individual being. Only the embryo is distinct from it's host organism and acts as an individual organism and that is why the embryo is biologically considered a separate human being while the other things you mention are not.
I (and a good deal of science) completely disagree. An embryo is not a human being, and abortion is not murder. There is no scientific reason to characterize a raisin-size lump of cells as a human being. Biologically speaking, such an embryo is far more primitive than a fish or a bird. Anatomically, its brain has yet to develop, so in terms of its capacity for consciousness, it doesn’t bear the remotest similarity to a human being. This growth of cells has the potential to become a human being–if preserved, fed, nurtured, and brought to term by the woman that it depends on–but it is not actually a human being. Analogously, seeds can become mature plants–but that hardly makes a pile of acorns equal to a forest. It pretty implausible to consider an embryo a person, given that they have little to no nervous system. The fact that an embryo has human DNA does not prove it is a person because human tissue samples have human DNA and human tissue samples are not individual human beings. Reflex movements and hormonal stress responses provide information about sensory connections at lower levels of the nervous system and cannot be assumed to indicate perception or awareness. For perception or awareness, the sensory information needs to be transmitted to the thalamus, the major subcortical sensory nucleus and then to the cortex, the highest region of the brain. I also cited another study from Dr. Paulson which discusses this concept and how the fetus is not an individual. But at the same time, we realize that each of the totipotent cells that comprise these embryos is, at least theoretically, capable of producing a completely new individual. Indeed, multiple individuals can arise from the implantation of a single embryo, as in the case of identical twins. Therefore, we know that the preimplantation embryo is not actually an individual. The preimplantation embryo is essentially an aggregate of stem cells, which has the potential to produce a pregnancy, including placental and fetal tissues, assuming that it successfully implants in a receptive endometrium. It is only after implantation that the early embryo can further differentiate into the organized cell groups that enable the developing conceptus to progress further in embryonic and eventually fetal development. Paulson, Richard J. M.D "The Unscientific Nature Of The Concept That “Human Life Begins At Fertilization,” And Why It Matters." Fertility and Sterility 107.3 (2017): 566-567. Web. 21 May 2018.
You are still mixing up philosophy with biology. It's evident by your use of the word person several times. I can see that you are having this discussion with others on here and are finding the most basic concepts difficult. I can also see that you have copied and pasted some information indicating that you probably do not really grasp what is being talked about. So, I will try to keep it simple. We agree that, A human embryo is human A human embryo is living A human embryo is distinct from it's parents A human embryo is an organism If you do not dispute these facts (and as far as I can see you have not) then I am not really sure where the disagreement is? I think that the struggle you are having is not about whether an embryo is a living human organism but rather, whether the human embryo is a human person. You seem to be arguing the latter. The former is a fact that you have not disputed. The other thing I can see is that you do not want to admit that the term organism is synonymous with being an individual life form. But the reality is that by definition, this is exactly what it is. When the term organism is used in a biological manner it indicates individuality or a separate being. A quick search defining organism will easily point you in that direction.
Life beginning at conception is one of the most basic biological fact. Pro-choicers can argue that its a life that isnt worth protecting because its not developed enough, but its biological illiterate to say that the zygote, morulas, blastocyste, fetus and baby aren't human organisms.
"The idea that "life begins at conception" is not a scientific one. Since the disproof of 'spontaneous generation' (1668-1859), we have known that life only derives from life. Life arose billions of years ago and has continued since as a cycle. Assigning a beginning to a cycle (like the year) is arbitrary." -- Dr. Robert Wyman, (Professor of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1998‑present Program Director, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Undergraduate Science Education Program, 1989‑present Professor of Biology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1980‑1998) I can't wait for you to tell me how one of the most distinguished biologists in the nation is somehow "wrong" on this issue, and all the redditors here are correct.
Philosophy=/= science.
Yes! Because a reputable biologist, doing a lecture on reproductive biology, in a biology class, at yale's biology department is totally philosophy/s! Cecile Richards could say the earth is not flat, and you would say it's a philosophical statement just because she's pro-choice. Oh btw, here is a list of medical and scientific organizations that support the right to choose. American Medical Association: "[We] oppose legislative interference with the practice of medicine and a woman’s relationship with her doctor... Access to safe and legal abortion is an important aspect of women’s health care. Abortion is one of the safest medical procedures performed in the United States." https://www.acog.org/~/media/News%20Releases/20131220Release.pdf The American Medical Women's Association [AMWA] will oppose efforts to overturn or weaken Roe v. Wade, either directly or indirectly, as in the case of legislation which burdens access to the abortion procedure. AMWA considers all such laws and court rulings to interfere with the doctor-patient relationship, and thus to violate medical autonomy and pose threats to the individual as well as the public health." https://www.amwa-doc.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/12/August-3-2017-Amici-Curiae-Brief-for-Planned-Parenthood.pdf Association of Reproductive Health Care Professionals: “Abortion care is a critical component of comprehensive reproductive health care, and ARHP supports a woman’s right to choose to have an abortion. The decision to continue or terminate a pregnancy belongs to the pregnant woman. ARHP opposes any judicial, legislative, or administrative attempt at the local, state, or federal levels to ban any abortion procedure or medical procedure to terminate a pregnancy.” http://www.arhp.org/about-us/position-statements The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) supports the availability of high-quality reproductive health services for all women and is committed to improving access to abortion. Access to abortion is threatened by state and federal government restrictions, limitations on public funding for abortion services and training, stigma, violence against abortion providers, and a dearth of abortion providers. Legislative restrictions fundamentally interfere with the patient-provider relationship and decrease access to abortion for all women, and particularly for low-income women and those living long distances from health care providers. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists calls for advocacy to oppose and overturn restrictions, improve access, and mainstream abortion as an integral component of women’s health care." "Safe, legal abortion is a necessary component of women’s health care. "ACOG has long recognized that abortion is an essential component of health care for millions of women, and has opposed legislative interference into health decision-making. Many years ago, the United States Supreme Court decided that the state has no right to interfere with these decisions, as they are between a patient and her physician." https://www.acog.org/About-ACOG/News-Room/Statements/2016/ACOG-Statement-on-Abortion-Bans?p=1 https://www.acog.org/Clinical-Guidance-and-Publications/Committee-Opinions/Committee-on-Health-Care-for-Underserved-Women/Increasing-Access-to-Abortion The American Academy of Family Physicians "RESOLVED, That the American Academy of Family Physicians support chapter efforts that oppose legislation that imposes on abortion providers unnecessary requirements that infringe on the practice of evidence-based medicine, and be it further RESOLVED, That the American Academy of Family Physicians oppose national legislation that imposes unnecessary requirements on abortion providers, reducing doctors’ ability to provide evidence-based and patient-centered care..." https://www.aafp.org/dam/AAFP/documents/events/alf_ncsc/business/sat-advocacy.pdf The WMA (World Medical Association) “recognizes that unwanted pregnancies and pregnancies that are too closely spaced can have a serious adverse effect on the health of a woman and of her children. These adverse effects can include the premature deaths of women. Existing children in the family can also suffer starvation, neglect or abandonment resulting in their death or impaired health, when families are unable to provide for all their children. Social functioning and the ability to reach their full potential can also be impaired. The WMA recognizes the benefits for women who are able to control their fertility. They should be helped to make such choices themselves, as well as in discussion with their partners. The ability to do so by choice and not chance is a principal component of women's physical and mental health and social well being. Restrictive abortion laws are not associated with lower abortion rates. In countries where induced abortion is highly restricted by law, safe abortion has frequently become the privilege of the rich, while poor women are left with little choice but to resort to unsafe providers."  https://www.wma.net/policies-post/wma-statement-on-family-planning-and-the-right-of-a-woman-to-contraception/ [World Health Organization] WHO, with support from an international consensus and prompted by human rights obligations, has responded to a major neglected public health need of women...until abortion is decriminalized, the tragedy of unsafe abortion will continue to haunt us and to threaten the life, health and rights of women. Furthermore, research aimed at developing simpler, improved methods for performing induced abortion has the potential to save the lives of millions of women globally." http://www.who.int/bulletin/volumes/90/9/12-107144.pdf I can't wait for you to tell me these millions of doctors don't understand science and biology like you and SPL and they are simply engaging in philosophy too.
strawman_you_got_me.jpg _ You are now equivocating. You first made these incorrect statement that a zygote is not a human organism. You have now switched the argument to "well it doesn't matter because pregnancy is dangerous lol". I think any loss of life is tragic. At the same time, pregnancy has a mortality rate of 0.024%- that is low by any clinical standard. Yes, the statement that a human zygote is not a human being is a philosophical statement! Find me one quote from an embryology textbook that says a human zygote is not a human organism. And keep in mind, if it involves philosophical arguments, and not analytical ones, then it is not a scientific statement. These are two studies, one of which is from Guttmacher, an abortion advocacy group(they do some other things): http://www.johnstonsarchive.net/policy/abortion/abreasons.html https://www.guttmacher.org/sites/default/files/pdfs/pubs/psrh/full/3711005.pdf You'll see that, though the statistics don't entirely agree, the reasons women are seeking abortions are rarely the reasons people tend to cite in defense of it, ie. rape, incest, health concerns both for themselves and the child. What would you guess is the total percentage of those 4 instances? The AGI survey suggests that all of them together are the primary reason for choosing abortion in less than 8% of instances, with rape and incest accounting for around .5% of all instances. So that argument that we need abortion because of rape and incest, as well as for health concerns, 92% of abortions don't apply..... Which leaves 50,000 abortions per the CDC that were obtained for the reasons most cited by people in the middle of the debate as the reason it should be legal.
PART 2 OF MY RESPONSE This response clearly shows me that you haven't been listening to a word I am saying. Your textbooks quotations are simply vague and generalized conceptions. That's what those sentences are doing. These words don't appear in higher-level textbooks, and the reason is that higher-level textbooks need to provide a rationale for what they say. Half your textbooks don't even use the words human organism and instead, use different terms and entities. The main point I showed against this argument is the whole that actual scientific textbook authors agree that textbooks don't actually say anything that suits the pro-life perspective. I have offered the testimony of several reputable and credible textbook authors that clearly explain why textbooks don't say what you actually think you do. You try to twist their statements into meaning things that they don't, but it's almost like telling an author what a book should mean, instead of listening to his interpretation. There are examples of textbooks such as "Essential Reproduction" by Martin Johnson (6th Ed, 2007) used in Yale's reproductive biology courses as seen in this tweet here that address the question directly of when life begins and clearly don't say anything that supports your view. Dr. P.Z Myers also addresses question view directly. Now this person wants a specific quote from a biology text that has the words “human life does not begin at conception” in it. That would be tough, because it’s a sentence that rather boggles the brain of any developmental biologist — we also tend not to write sentences like, “human beings are not flies”. We kind of expect that anyone intelligent enough to read the textbook doesn’t need their hand held in superfluous explications of the bleedin’ obvious. But you will find us saying simple things like that in email and conversations and even popular lectures to lay people…such as this talk by Lewis Wolpert. Wolpert is, of course, one of the best known developmental biologists on the planet. He is also the author of a very good introductory text in developmental biology (Principles of Development, one that I use in my classes at UMM, and in this lecture (which you really should watch and listen to in its entirety, it’s very good), he does come right out and say the bleedin’ obvious. “What I’m concerned with is how you develop. I know that you all think about it perpetually that you come from one single cell of a fertilized egg. I don’t want to get involved in religion but that is not a human being. I’ve spoken to these eggs many times and they make it quite clear … they are not human beings.” -- Dr. Lewis Wolpert, (Developmental and evolutionary biologist, author of "Principles of Development" and “Triumph of the Embryo”) https://freethoughtblogs.com/pharyngula/2009/03/17/the-fertilized-egg-is-not-a-hu/#ixzz5HErqWRDR I haven't made any arguments about the reasons why people get abortions, so I am not going to address the rest of your comment since it's irrelevant. Dr. Malcolm Potts. Fellow and Director of Medical Studies at the Sidney Sussex College in England
PART 1 OF MY RESPONSE Let me recall to you the exchange we previously had. I think context is a very important issue. When I cite Dr. Wyman, I am not citing him from any news article or publication. I am citing him directly from the Yale University open courses page found here: Despite what the alt-right like to think, Yale is one of the most prestigious universities in the world. This prestige especially carries through in biological sciences section where Dr. Wyman teaches. Every course has to be accredited and reviewed to the highest standards, especially at an Ivy Leauge institution. That is why I consider the lecture and the quotes from Wyman to be highly credible because it is presented in an objective and academic setting and it has most likely been previously reviewed and found to meet the high standards of teaching required of Yale University. So as I said earlier. My evidence is one of the most reputable biologists' in the nation. Teaching a biology course, in the biological department of a very prestigious university known for its biology program. Yet despite this, you label it as "philosophy". And that is what provoked my response to you. It is the pure frustration in the fact that I provide genuine scientific evidence and you simply relegate it to the realm of philosophy because it doesn't mesh with your worldview. I find it quite hilarious when you accuse of me making a strawman, and now you're making the biggest strawman I have ever seen. First off nothing I sad is incorrect. I have provided peer-reviewed evidence that clearly reflects the contemporary scientific thinking of this matter. I have time and time again provided peer-reviewed research and expert quotations from some of the most respected biologists and scientists in this nation that clearly debunks your worldview. Next, my purpose of citing these various medical and scientific organizations has nothing to do with the safety of abortions, I am simply citing it to show you the scientific consensus that exists on this issue. If your view was correct, that modern biology and science showed that abortion takes the life of a human organism just like you and me, then I would assure you that the millions of doctors being represented in these organizations who are actually trained and educated in this subject would be the first to join the pro-life movement. We saw this in the case of the theory of evolution, where soon after it was published, it saw widespread acceptance in the scientific community despite the fact that many scientists at the time held creationists sentiments. Except in the case of abortion, we don't see it all. The scientific consensus is very clear on this issue. Literally, every credible and reputable medical organization in the U.S supports the right to choose. Major science organizations such as our National Institutes of Health, or the National Science Foundation, are not leading a charge against abortion either. The only evidence that supports your perspective is a handful of political pro-life scientists and your personal interpretation of pro-life textbooks to fit your personal view of biology that is clearly not shared by the rest of the medical community. So once again, I am Not switching the argument and trying to show you the dangers of pregnancy (although I will engage with statements you provided later in this comment). I am simply demonstrating the overwhelming scientific and medical consensus on this issue that is clearly on the pro-choice side. Just throwing out facts without any context means nothing. When we actually compare the mortality rate of pregnancy to legal abortion, we get a completely different story. As studies show Legal induced abortion is markedly safer than childbirth. The risk of death associated with childbirth is approximately 14 times higher than that with abortion. Similarly, the overall morbidity associated with childbirth exceeds that with abortion. Pregnancy undergone against one's will is quite a violation, in medical terms, even a normal pregnancy is an extraordinary condition. Hormones may rise to 400 times their base levels. A woman's respiratory system drastically changes, causing a 40 percent increase in cardiac volume and a 15 percent increase in blood pressure. A new organ is grown in a woman's body, the placenta, and her entire circulatory system is rerouted in order to make her blood supply usable for the growing fetus. Given the quantity and quality of the effects of a fetus on a woman's body and liberty, if a woman does not consent, that fetus is massively harming her. What? This is utter nonsense. I have provided scientific evidence time and time again that clearly proves that 1. There is a scientific definition/criteria of what it means to be a human being. And 2. That this criterion is not met by the early zygote. The fact that you continuously try to deny it and relegate everything you don't agree with to philosophy and heavily frustrating. "At the completion of fertilization a genetically unique structure has been produced but it cannot be said to warrant a special status or the label 'a potential human being'. We must see the genetic uniqueness of the fertilized egg in the context of the richness of all biological processes. Every cell in our body contains all the genetic information to make a new individual. Botanists have already taken a single cell from the leaf or root of a plant and grown a new individual." -- Dr. Malcolm Potts. Fellow and Director of Medical Studies at the Sidney Sussex College in England Dr. Charles Gardner, who did his doctoral research on the genetic control of brain development at the University of Michigan Medical School's Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, writes, "The 'biological' argument that a human being is created at fertilization . . . comes as a surprise to most embryologists . . . for it contradicts all that they have learned in the past few decades.".Gardner notes that in humans when two sibling embryos combine into one . . . the resultant person may be completely normal. If the two original embryos were determined to become particular individuals, such a thing could not happen. The embryos would recognize themselves to be different . . . and would not unite. But here the cells seem unaware of any distinction between themselves . . . The only explanation is that the individual is not fixed or determined at this early stage. Gardner also writes, "The fertilized egg is clearly not a prepackaged human being . . . Our genes give us a propensity for certain characteristics, but it is the enactment of the complex process of development that gives us our individual characteristics. So how can an embryo be a human being?" He further states, "The information required to make an eye or a finger does not exist in the fertilized egg. It exists in the positions and interactions of cells and molecules that will be formed only at a later time." Such research and discoveries lead to the conclusion that a developmental process taking about nine months produces a human being. Therefore the idea that a human exists at conception is a theological statement rather than a medical or scientific fact.
Wow, talk about putting words in my mouth. Just a debate tip for future discussions, it's bad form to tell someone what they think without checking with them first. Okay, and? Not one of the quotations you have provided is a scientific one. Please provide an embryology quotation that contradicts the ones I and SPL quoted. Because he does not use biology to prove his point, he uses philosophy. No, you've provided sources stating scientists' opinions on personhood. The two are different things, and you seem unable to realise this. You literally have about a 1 in 5,000 chance of dying in childbirth in a DEVELOPED country. That is 0.02% (and this includes women who are not exhibiting normal healthy pregnancies). https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maternal_death My chances of dying from the flu are 3,697 in 100, 000. That is 3.5%. My chances from dying of the flu are significantly higher than dying from child birth. http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/fastats/flu.htm Your comparisons are purposely deceptive. Pregnancy certainly is dangerous, but not high based on clinical standards. Also, I would argue that it's not about whether a woman "consented" to being pregnant, but rather that she consented to the risk of getting pregnant. I don't care if getting pregnant wasn't her intention; I care if she knew that getting an abortion would be her only way out and chose to engage in an activity that she knew could result in pregnancy. A fetus is a human organism, and that is by at least one definition a human being. All of your citations that state otherwise are from medical ethics journals and the opinions of random scientists.  You have not given a single source on embryology that states otherwise. If you are annoyed that I sum your responses up to be philosophy and not science, perhaps you should quote a source that uses science, not philosophy, to prove its point. This is a philosophical claim, not a scientific one. There is no discussion of what it means to be an organism, which he would need to discuss if he wanted to prove why a zygote does not qualify. I think this is a great example of the continuum fallacy. Gardner notes that in humans when two sibling embryos combine into one . . . the resultant person may be completely normal... This is known as an acardiac twin, which is when one of the twins dies in pregnancy and is absorbed by its twin. Something dies in the utero so it wasn't an organism? Do you even hear yourself? . You later provide a quotation from Dr. Charles Gardner, and this quotation does not discuss the definition of an organism AT ALL; rather it discusses abilities a zygote doesn't have, and then sums this up to his personal definition of what it means to be a "human being". That is not true. . Literally all of your statements and quotations have been philosophical and not scientific. You can quote a scientist all day, every day, it doesn't mean everything that comes out of their mouth is science. ...when you don't know what an organism is. (Having a brain that emits EEG waves is not a criteria for being a human/ organism.) . If you want to discuss what makes a human being a person I am up to that. There is a difference between being a human organism and personhood(which is what you seem to be using to define "human organism".
A fetus is not about to be a human. It is a human.
Fetuses are not "things".
I think that the response by the seemingly prolifer was very misguided. A human fetus is in fact human and is definitely biologically alive.
Yeah--referring to fetuses as "things that are about to be human and have life" is incorrect. Fetuses are already human, already have life, and most importantly (which is what distinguishes them from other human cells or cell structures), they are already distinct individual human lives.
A fetus isn't "about to be human" anymore than a toddler is "about to be human." The word fetus isn't an indicator of species but an indicator of age. From the moment of conception, a unique, fully human life exists. It irks me so that the pro-choice side thinks they have the monopoly on science but so often their arguments demonstrate an utter lack of understanding of basic biology.


Hey, good news! The link is to a post made November, 2017. Project Weak Link, from that page, "focuses on corporations that, while they do not kill unborn children directly, enable the killing by contracting with abortion businesses." This specific effort was focused on persuading Specific Waste Industries to stop transporting and disposing of medical waste (i.e., the corpses of aborted children) for abortion clinics. Anyway, a link to the petition contained in this article contained an update that the company had dropped all contracts with clinics performing abortions, including Kentucky's last abortion clinic.

Crazy how this man, who is a poster child for the seven deadly sins, keeps doing half decent things.
It is possible to draw a straight line with a crooked stick.
Best way I have heard that phrased. I’ve also heard someone say “A soldier can throw a grenade, and doesn’t have to pretend the grenade shares his ideology”
I agree, this does seem possible.
This isn't really a half decent thing. He just signed off on giving them 500 million in the omnibus bill. This is just a political move to make it look like he cares.
One would think that the Congress that is majority Republican and supposedly pro-life could get it out of there before it went to the President's desk.
They don't have the votes. Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowski are never going to vote to defund planned parenthood.
Both voted for the tax bill even though they loved Obamacare. That's like saying Republicans would never vote for the budget and increase spending because they're fiscally conservative. It's the leadership that wrote this bill and they're at fault for designing the omnibus and not leveraging PP like they did with military spending.
So how is this trumps fault?
Because he didn't veto 500m in Planned Parenthood funding.
And what would that do? Increase the generic ballot for the dems so we can get a blue house and senate? Blame the GOP for being spineless bastards

No... That would not be I've of those things. like I said he's the seven deadly sins in a bad spray tan
Good Trump
YES! I’ve been wanting something to happen to this terrorist group Planned Parenthood. There needs to be more done than just this though. They will still get taxpayer funding after this as far as I know. I just wish more things would happen with pro life stuff, something good happens once in a blue moon.
Let me know when it happens.
But he's not really pro life.
Honestly, that's probably a good thing. I don't have any confidence that Donald Trump earnestly believes life begins at conception; he's just doing this to accrue political capital with the pro-life movement. He has to keep taking action, because we don't trust him to uphold future promises. Someone who is genuinely pro-life (e.g. Paul Ryan) might take the support of pro-lifers for granted, and not prioritize the issue.
This is the first time I have felt true joy in response to something President Trump has done. I pray he continues to support pro-life policies, both for the unborn and the living!
I love this guy!
I'll be glad to give Trump some props if this happens. Should be today sometime, from the sounds of things. Keep in mind, though, that (at least according to the article) "cut" actually means "reduce" rather than "eliminate" in this case.
What he did was cut funding to contraception in places where abortions are performed.
I hope this money can instead go towards supporting new parents and adoptive parents, but also preventing unwanted pregnancies in the first place by providing more affordable and effective contraceptive choices.


Actually, what he did was cut funding to contraception in places where abortions are performed.
Care to elaborate?
He made it so that Title X funds for contraception can't be used by organizations that perform abortions. So abortion clinics can't pay for contraceptives anymore. Think that will decrease the number of abortions?
Yes? It forces these organizations into facing the truth if their main premise is always about how these places do good things.
...alright.  So my theory is that providing contraceptives with abortions will decrease the number of abortions. Your premise is that, if those contraceptives can't get funded, abortion clinics will just shut down. We don't disagree about abortion, we disagree about supply and demand.
Your flair says mod of /r/prochoice so aren't you pro-choice? I never said abortion clinics would shut down overnight, but public opinion might turn against them if so many people believe PP does good things and this is why they need to receive federal funding.
Sure, let me rephrase: I don't follow you.  People think that providing contraception is a good thing, and the US is going to stop helping people afford it through PP, and people are going to think that PP is bad as a result?
Yes if the only thing the government service PP is doing out of government funds is abortion, it doesn't look great. Not to mention you're exaggerating your point. It's not as if PP doesn't have the money to provide contraception if they want to so this doesn't have an effect on increasing abortions either.
There aren't government-funded abortions. You think that PP has the budget to provide free contraception to everybody? Also, do you think PP is the only abortion provider?
https://rtl.org/RLMNews/09editions/AreMyTaxDollarsPayingForAbortion.htm#ppfa Taxpayer funding has allowed PP to expand abortions. PP is the largest abortion provider in the country yes. No matter what the use is for, don't fund clinics that support abortions. That simple. Why has Title X funding gone down since 2010 while abortion rates have declined? Your argument that somehow we would have more abortions is false.  Of course I don't expect it to eliminate abortion but it's a good step. If you think PP can't afford it anymore, well maybe they should stop killing babies and they'll get their funding back.

Well Title X funds have been cut down significantly since 2010. Abortion rates are down.
If this is passed, it would prohibit facilities that receive Title X dollars to perform abortions within that facility but it wouldn't bar them from counselling about abortion. Title X money is technically already barred from going to abortion but since money is fungible any facility that performs abortions is enabled to continue doing so via Title X money that helps them cover other expenses.
Well then, props to the president for this move.
I was reading some progressive-leaning material over internet, mainly "geek feminism" and stuff. I came across a talk about paradox of tolerance in tech companies.That particular text draw me attention (the context is, roughly, "rules to block intolerant users"):The Intolerable Speech RuleIf the content or the client is:Advocating for the removal of human rightsFrom people based on an aspect of their identityIn the context of systemic oppression primarily harming that groupIn a way that overall increases the danger to that groupThen don’t allow them to use your products.Question: that "intolerable speech rule" can it be applied to pro-choice and pro-abortion discouses?After all, these speeches activelyadvocate for removal of the main human right (namely, right to life)from a people based on an aspect of their identity - here we can think broadly as the unborn, or we can cut out/intersect sub-groups as Down Syndrome (or other developmental diseases) bearers, blacks, women, minorities etc.In the context of systemic oppression primarily harming that group - well documented numbers can be easily quotedIn a way that overall increases the danger to that groupThe hand fits the glove perfectly here.What do you think?
Yup, Pro-choice is pro-murder but like all other forms of hate speech, it's protected in our country. Best disinfectant is sunlight
Good question, I never thought about that before. Even the most adamant defenders of speech even when that speech is extremely hateful (They defend the speech not because they agree with it but because they strongly beileve in the principle of free speech) those people draw the line when speech advocates violence and beileve it is now no longer just speech. Abortion would definitely fit this.
I'm not fond of the "hate speech" concept myself.  I'm no fan of abortion or the reasoning behind it, of course, but I don't think pro-choicers are motivated by hate, necessarily. And I don't want to go tit for tat with progressives.  PC speech is a shit idea, and I don't want to mimic it just for the dubious pleasure of throwing it back in their faces.  All that accomplishes is wrestling with pigs.
I am 100% against limitations of speech; I think the Bradenmburg Test is the litmus for any free society. It can be used as a "Ex Concessis" argument. The idea is to show that limitations to intolerable speech can be turned against the abortion advocate himself.
Of course pro-choice speech is hate speech. Unfortunately, many of those who advocate for removal of free speech protections don't see pro-choice positions as hate speech.
Yes, all advocacy of abortion (or any other murder) is dangerous and should be shut down.
I suppose if you are telling someone "they should get an abortion" it is technically an immediate call to violence which is not protected by the First Amendment. However since fetuses are sadly not considered "people"  you can't commit a crime against them.
I think whether or not pro abortion speech is hate speech is pretty subjective. If you consider the opportunity to end a pregnancy a human right, then someone could also argue that pro life speech is hate speech (not that it is, most of the time). People could say you are discriminating on women based on their gender identity. However, I do not know if this is technically correct because abortion laws affect female people, no necessarily women. Pro choice people might argue that anti-abortion laws result in systematic oppression. Lastly, some say that anti-abortion laws lower health care opportunities to those who are pregnant, putting them in danger. I think the whole "hate speech" thing is pretty slippery anyway. There are lots of things that could be considered hate speech. Ultimately, I do not think labeling pro-abortion dialogue as hate speech will lead to better discussions and understanding between the two groups on this issue.

Makes sense considering alot of female athletes are pushed into abortion to protect their playing career.
Absolutely disgusting
Or maybe it’s because that’s what a majority of women want in this country. And considering 100% of the WNBA are women, it’s not hard to come to the conclusion that they whole heartedly support abortion rights.
Or maybe it's because they don't want to lose their scholarships. http://www.espn.com/college-sports/news/story?id=2865230
Obviously you would loose your scholarship, if I had a scholarship for running and get both my legs cut off, I’m gonna loose my scholarship for a perfectly legitimate reason. I actually lost my scholarship because my GPA dipped below 3.5, was that fair?
Was it because you got pregnant and wanted to keep the baby?
No it was because I got lazy and didn’t maintain my GPA. It was my fault. It was clearly stated in my scholarship that I’d loose it. This is exactly like in a sports scholarship where if you were no longer able to play the game you lose the scholarship. I fail to see a difference.
Are you trying to equate getting pregnant to being lazy?
That’s not the point I was trying to make. My scholarship had a caveat, I had to maintain a certain GPA. Sports scholarships have caveats too, you must be able to play the sport. This is a non issue. Nobody should pressure women to have an abortion, in the same way nobody should pressure a scholarship provider to give money away to people who can’t perform certain duties.
Too bad it only effects female athletes' scholarships and careers.
If your performance suffers because you can’t control your hormone therapy after your balls get cut off in an accident....you’re going to loose your scholarship.


Abortion should only be supported by tax payer money if the mother's life is in danger.


Semi-OC as I compiled it.




Woo! Glad my home state didn't let me down. Also, let's hear it for the pro-life Democrats...! “This recognizes the right of the state after 15 weeks to protect the lives of the unborn,” said state Sen. John Milkovich, a pro-life Democrat who wrote the bill. “This is a great step forward.” ... Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards, a rare pro-life Democrat, said he probably will sign the bill if it reaches his desk, according to the AP. “It remains to be seen whether that bill will make its way through the process. I would be inclined to sign it if it hits my desk,” Edwards said on his radio show in March.
I know this is still a “win”, but aborting a 15 week old baby is still disgusting. I mean, abortion at any stage is wrong; but at 15 weeks you definitely can’t easily lie to yourself that it’s “just a clump of cells”
Great.  No one read the bill, and the only thing anyone cares about is how much money they're going to have to spend fighting this in court.  So glad to not live in LA right now.  I'd be pretty upset to see my taxes literally get wasted fighting things in court that will almost guaranteed be struck down. Nothing will change, everyone loses money in a state that probably should be saving their dollars rather than spending wastefully on litigation. But hey! Pro-lifers found a democrat to sponsor, so that's good.
I think saving innocent children from having their brains sucked out with a vaccum is a tad more important than money.
That's the point. It'll never see the light of day, only wasting money and time being argued in court. With that wasted money, you could set up real programs to help women, instead of trying to legislate your will upon them
Want to know who else will never see the light of day? Those unborn children who you refuse to protect from murderers. We will never stop fighting to protect life, sorry, we’re too good-willed
This law will do nothing to protect them. A similar law just next door in Mississippi got struck down 15 HOURS after it was enacted, by an Obama judge.
Going to get shut down by Supreme Court . Hate to say it
We can always hope not, for the sake of those poor children
I wish I wasn’t pessimistic, but I’ve had my hopes shattered so many times with this. I’m almost expecting this. I pray this is an exception.
Time for final approval, come on, let’s save some babies!


I was discussing this with a friend the other day and wanted to hear what you all thought.Personally, I think Planned Parenthood should be funded because they offer birth control, STD testing, and other important services. However, it seems a lot of pro life people do not feel this way. I would love to hear your thoughts on the benefits and negatives of Planned Parenthood in regards to the pro life cause.Thanks!
All the "pros" Planned Parenthood brings can (and are) being done by other organizations, and most of Planned Parenthood's non-abortion services are funded via taxpayer dollars anyway. But even if Planned Parenthood were somehow the only organization in the world capable of offering STD tests, that would not erase the fact that they are the largest provider of abortions in the US, nor the fact that they continually promote abortion and lobby for it to remain legal. If Planned Parenthood ever decided that the other things they do were so important that they were willing to give up their support for abortion to preserve them, I would have no problems with Planned Parenthood.  But of course, abortion is Planned Parenthood's core reason for existence, so that is extremely unlikely to happen anywhere in the foreseeable future.
If I only spend 3% of my day killing people, would you think I'm a good person? Even if I spend 97% of my day doing good things?
This is why it seems like people who say "but at least they do a lot of good things" don't actually believe that abortion is the unjust killing of a human being. It makes no sense.
Right. It'd be like if someone defended Bill Cosby's allegations because only a small percentage of what he did was date-rape people. He also had a hit show in the '80s! Who cares!?
See here and here. I think people are deluded into believing that PP is really the only place that provides these services, but they're not. Not even close. We can and should redirect their funding to centers which provide those same services without killing human beings on the side.
Local health departments do all of those things, don't they? And don't provide abortions? Perhaps the money would be better suited to go towards expanding the budget of local health departments, which support poor women, men, children, elderly...
I'd have little against PP if they didn't offer abortions and promote them.  It is likely that I am not 100% in agreement with them, but I could take the "supporting women's health care" argument more seriously if they used their entire funding for actual health care.
Those funds should go to the local hhs/low income clinics where people get tested and treated for STDs and Rxed birth control every single day, PLUS those clinics ALSO offer treatment for non-sexual needs! Whaaaat? Women might need treatment for colds, allergies, thyroid problems, prenatal care, antidepressants? Whoa! I almost forgot women weren't giant vaginas! Planned Parenthood is completely unnecessary. It's like the government funding Walgreens cuz where else are people going to get chapstick? Uh, anywhere.
Good question I'd be in favour of it as long as they don't do abortions, but as long as they do abortion, no way. The std testing is good. I not so sure about the free birth control since buying birth control is extremely cheap and i don't think spending taxpayers money on giving out free birth control is a good idea when that money could be used in better ways. However to me the birth control thing is not really a big deal don't care too much either way, abortion is more what i'm focused on.
In general, I oppose public funding for private organizations.


Nikki Minaj "Autobiography"
That's so messed up.
Sad she like so many women were bullied into an abortion.
It's unlikely that this idea would ever really catch on with the mainstream. Generally speaking, there isn't much overlap between folks who believe the dead will become guardian angels, and those that have a cavalier enough attitude towards abortion that they'd go through with one for the former reason. Theologically speaking, "He's my guardian angel" is typically an idea that provides some comfort to those who've lost someone, but nearly all (if not all) sects of Christianity do not believe the dead can become angels. Angels are wholly different entities than humans, despite so many 1940s cartoon deaths indicating otherwise!
I think in Catholicism, for example, guardian angels are actual angels of God, not souls who have passed away. Theologically speaking, humans are not suggested to be angels and don't become angels as far as I know.  I have heard that there is some belief that some past prophets did become angels that are later referred to in the Bible, but that may just be in certain esoteric forms of Christianity or Judaism.
Yeah, I'm Catholic and the Church is clear on angels not being humans (or souls) who've passed onto Heaven.
More like aborting to get a botchling.
SPL is out of material.

Trudeau is a monster. I found out resently it was his dad who introduced abortion legalisation into canada. The lack of self awareness is mind numbing. “These include reproductive rights, and the right to be free from discrimination on the basis of sex, religion, race, national or ethnic origin, colour, mental or physical disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity or expression,” There are down syndrome babies in the womb that are killed by a "doctor" because of their down syndrome
What about free from discrimination of the basis of age? (Embryos/fetuses)P.s I can't stand the term "reproductive rights". Sorry but when an abortion happens, reproduction has already begun, now you are just killing your offspring that you created because you don't want to care for them.
I know! I can't stand it when they refer to abortion as contraception, you are not prevent a life you are killing a life that is already there. I've also noticed that abortion advocates always move to new euphanism. The first euphanism was the word abortion itself, but then it's sugarcoating effect wore off. They then move to reproductive rights/ a woman's right to choose, then women's rights, then women's health.
Honestly, I would not be surprised if soon they just start advocating straight out filicide/infantacide and call it "parenting rights".
There's a semi-notorious bioethics paper advocating "after-birth abortions" in certain circumstances. http://jme.bmj.com/content/early/2012/03/01/medethics-2011-100411
Well if you look at the case of Alfie Evan's, killing children will begin with the disabled and be passed of as the child's right to die with dignity. They are one step ahead of the game and we need to start keeping up.
Right! First they say "it's not a baby, its a fetus!!!11", which is medically correct, don't get me wrong. But funny how when someone's pregnant, we say "she's having a baby" or miscarries "she lost her baby". The word 'abort' is a euphemism for kill. Then it became 'terminating her pregnancy'- uhh there's noone else involved except the mother and her doctor duh!!!11 I've even heard people refer to the baby as "pregnancy tissue" or "contents inside the uterus". Wow. And I just answer that I support women's rights and choices as long as they don't harm anyone else :) Then ask, "Don't you agree?"
"The right to be free from discrimination on the basis of religion...." and then you have to agree to a question that is almost exclusively religion based. Very clever! Job application: "Do you eat pork? Y/N"
Well, obviously *those* people shouldn't get in, they think the wrong sorts of things! /s
The homosexual lobby is quite powerful in Canada. It’s sad because they are using their power to block major activity in the non-profit sector. A number of charities cannot find access to donors or grants because of requirements such as the one mentioned in the article.

...Thereby decreasing the number of rape survivors by quite a bit.
When you're talking to pro-choicers do you assume they have the same feeling as you do towards the personhood of the unborn and are just choosing to deny it, or do you think they genuinely have a different opinion/feeling about it?Context for the question: So a few months ago a pro-choicer posed what he believed to be a "gotcha" question to the pro-lifers on twitter. The question went along the lines of, "if you have to choose between 100 zygotes or 1 toddler to save in a burning house, who would you save?" The assumption was that all pro-lifers would choose the toddler. Many of you probably remember this. This question gives me the impression that the OP thought everyone viewed the zygotes as having less personhood than the toddler, and the pro-lifers were just ignoring this obvious truth (I am not saying that this is the obvious truth, it is just my perception of what the OP might have been thinking).As I have continued reading about this issue, the pro-life side also seems to hold a similar assumption that the pro-choice side has the same feeling/understanding that a zygote or fetus is 100% as much of a person as any grown person, the pro-choicers are just choosing to deny this obvious truth.So my question, do you think fetus's having equal personhood is understood and felt by pro-choicers and they are just choosing to deny obvious personhood, or do you think that they genuinely view the issue completely differently? Do you think pro-choicers live in willful ignorance?I predict that some of the responses to this might be statements about how this question doesn't even matter anyway. I would really appreciate answers to the first question before the importance of the question is discussed. I do think discussing the merit of the question is good, so if you feel strongly about that please do, just please don't forget to answer the original question as well.Thanks!
There are far too many motivations that I have come across to assess pro-choicers in one way. Some are certainly ignorant. Some have become strong proponents because they have had abortions themselves and now they have stepped over the line and are now complicit.  This will certainly harden one's justifications in their own mind, no matter how well or poorly reasoned they started out being. Some only view the abortion debate through association with other so-called progressive platforms. Others merely suffer from not being able to see the dissonance in their values.  Feminists, for instance, see that women are "freed" in certain respects from certain disadvantages of their sex by abortion, but perhaps don't really internalize that they do this by sacrificing their sisters and daughters to obtain this goal. Some are educated, highly intelligent people with logically consistent arguments, but their logic stems from what I can only call a perverse system of values.  There's really nothing you can do but oppose these people head on and point out that their values are not ones that truly make a better society.
What do you consider a "perverse set of values"? Are you referring to Peter Singer?
He's one person I'd single out for that description, yes. It's certainly much easier to logically argue for using certain criteria for killing humans if you want to define their value based on ableist values.  I accept that you can make those arguments, but that they will be ultimately detrimental to humanity's future.
I don't totally love this framing, but I'm interested to see where that reasoning leads.  I assume you believe that it is okay to proactively kill animals, at least some of the time, so what I'm curious about is what evaluation you've made that leads to this conclusion. I usually find that the most illuminating way of exploring someone's perspective on this topic is to start from the base level with no preceding assumptions, and ask:  in the world there are presumably beings that you think it is ethical to kill if we desire to, and beings which are not.  If I present you with any random being, what properties must it possess in order for it to be one of the ones with which you would be acting immorally if you were to end its life?
My primary concern is for human life and potential.  I don't care much for the killing of other animals needlessly, especially those closer to having human faculties, but human rights are just that, rights for humans and our offspring. So any other animal in the universe is eligible to be killed on a basic moral level.  One could argue that there are other moral obligations such as protection of the environment, or perhaps the commonwealth of other sentient life (aliens, maybe dolphins, etc.) but these are subordinate and only ought apply if we have the luxury of doing so based on the security of our position.
Now this is exactly the sort of thing my question is driving at.  The question I'm asking is more fundamental, as in, what is it about this thing you refer to as "human" that makes it fall into the "killing this is murder" category of being?  I'm reasonably certain your answer isn't "because a sequence of letters beginning with 'h' and ending with 'n' is the ultimate indicator of moral importance", and I'd hope there's more depth to it than something as blithe as "because that's what I myself am".  So hopefully those aren't the reason, but I'm still very curious as to what is. To elaborate further, if there were no deeper reasoning than "because that's the group I'm in", then that sort of answer would be just as valid as defining your group wholly arbitrarily as something else.  You're using "human", but if someone else used "whites", you'd have no grounds to argue that they are incorrect in doing so if you don't have any more fundamental explanation for your choice. It's also of course complete happenstance that we're the only species on Earth of our mental capacity.  It could have been the case that there were multiple species with full personhood like us (like a Star Trek type world).  Whatever the criteria for murder is, I'd think it would apply to them too if they'd existed, even though the string of letters h-u-m-a-n doesn't apply to them If someone wanted to know how to start from a blank slate and separate living things into "okay to proactively kill" and "not okay to proactively kill", I'd hope we have a better answer for them than that.
Humans as a species represent a discrete group which is definable scientifically.  I’m certainly not suggesting we go to the dictionary for some sort of recursive definition. You’re looking for some answer that is frankly more complex than it needs to be.  We don’t kill our own.   Species have evolved to compete in their niches just as we have.  If they compete with us, it’s us or them.   I choose us.  I don’t need to justify our existence or right to kill other species any further than that.  We are a definable group by our genes and specific structure and capabilities and we exist to compete and win, or die. Everything we have is based on that very simple concept.  We work for the promotion of our species. Again I am willing to accept that we can ally with other species who can gain our respect and which do not threaten us, and so take an inclusive view of basic rights.  In that you might find the concepts you may be looking for me to suggest like sentience or intelligence of some objectively measurable form. But make no mistake, if we found a profoundly more advanced alien civilization which truly threatened our survival, I would not hesitate to work towards their removal as a threat, by their extinction if absolutely necessary. I am a firm believer that human rights must be an expansive concept, to cover all humans, but it stops there. On your blank slate there are only two values, those who compete successfully and those who do not.  Nature compels us to wish to be the group who competes successfully.  Failure to do so renders all other considerations moot, outside of metaphysics and religion. Your question opens up another consideration.  If I was to say there was some objective criteria that made it moral to kill animals, presumably that criteria could then be applied against us if we met another species superior to us in that respect. If you believe there are reasons that must exist outside of species survival to justify our continued existence, does that mean you would passively accept that reasoning as a moral justification for a superior alien to kill you and all other humans because we lacked that property to their extent?
You've made several references to self-defense here, but you should note that that is the exact opposite of the topic of my post.  The post I wrote was about one thing:  proactive killing.  Proactive means killing for no reason other than because we want to, whether that be for fun/sport, to eliminate an inconvenience, because we think the thing tastes good and want to eat it, etc.  What it does not mean, is killing in self-defense, which is basically a trivial question to answer, as you wanted to emphasize.  And since that was the context of much of your answer, you're also wrong about: Species membership has nothing to do with killing in self-defense.  So all your talk about "us or them", "threatening our survival", etc in relation to the whole "species" thing is moot, because if the situation is actually self-defense, yes, we do kill our own.  In self-defense you can justifiably kill almost anyone or anything, so we don't need to talk about species at all there.  That's why exactly 0% of my post was about that, but only about proactively killing something just because we feel like it for some reason.  That's where the interesting ethical questions lie.  See:  the question I asked. If you're not interested in talking about what makes proactive killing ethical or unethical, that's fine, and obviously no one can force you to, but I do want to re-emphasize that if you actually aren't able to define any sort of justification for what that dividing line is, then your position is entirely ungrounded with no way to disagree with anyone else's arbitrary choice.  It should go without saying that just stating "X is a group" doesn't indicate that that group has some special moral status...there are infinite objective "groups".  "People above 5'9" tall" are an objective group, but pointing that out doesn't further any argument about them deserving special consideration on its own.  To the contrary, if someone thinks any particular "objectively defined group" should be treated a certain way based on that group membership, they would be expected to explain why for it to carry any weight. No, because it has nothing to do with some kind of weird "ratio" of killer to killee in terms of some quantity of something they possess.  It's a question of "does the potential victim possess attributes X, Y, and Z", in a binary sense.  For example, for you to morally wrong a living thing with torture, one of the attributes they have to possess is an ability to suffer, because that ability is the only thing that gives the question any meaning at all.  That is why we have no moral qualms with using a chainsaw on a tree, but would probably have a problem with someone using it on their child's leg.  It has nothing to do with the perpetrator's attributes in that sense, but only the victim's.  How would it make sense to say that if the person using the chainsaw somehow can't feel pain, that this would make the action okay?  It's not about them at all.  So no, if we possess the attributes that make proactive life-ending morally problematic, then we possess them, full stop, and so ending our life is a moral issue.  That evaluation is unaffected by the introduction of hypothetical aliens.
In the beginning stages of prochoicery, i think it's likely that they really genuinely think a fetus isn't a person and that their logic train doesn't stop in Kill Anyone Inconvenient Town. But a veteran prochoicer who knows all the points, has engaged in debates for years, and has marinated in all the arguments,  i think at that point they're definitely doing mental gymnastics and/or simply doesn't mind that their train stops in Kill Anyone Inconvenient Town
I love the term "prochoicery"
I think a lot of the more entrenched pro-choicers also don't have the courage to admit they might be wrong, because the implications are that they have passionately supported mass murder. There's a certain point, I think, where some believe they can't go back. They have hitched their belief system to the idea the fetus is a species, or your bodily autonomy gives you the right to kill, and they can't let themselves go back, because it would make them feel horrible. So they pile on lies and things they know are stretches of logic and that just makes the ideological hole they're in that much deeper.
Some are actually ignorant - these are the ones who genuinely believe abortion is like having a period or losing skin cells or whatnot. Some are willfully ignorant - they know what pregnancy actually is, they will talk to a happy pregnant woman about the baby in her and on the ultrasound pictures. But if she wants an abortion, it's suddenly now a "parasite", a "non-person" or "potential life." A growing minority aren't ignorant at all - they understand what abortion is and accept, even relish in it. They will try to argue why it is right to kill babies (fewer poor, fewer disabled, fewer people of an undesired ethnic group, less crime, not letting rapists reproduce) or that morality is totally relative and nothing is actually wrong. Often they don't oppose infanticide of born babies either.
This.
That.
How about the ones that believe that a woman has a right to what grows inside her body regardless of whether it’s a tumor or another person?
That's usually the third group that was mentioned. To those people, I typically ask them if abortion up until birth is just. After all, a 40-week-old human inside her mother's womb is still inside her mother's womb.
Yes. I think it’s more than fair. Anything that grows inside my body is mine to deal with.
Do you feel that the unborn are not valuable human beings because they are inside the woman, or that the unborn are valuable human beings but the mother still has the right to kill them because they're inside her?
The latter. The death of innocent people are a necessary consequence of giving women the right to their own bodies.
In that case, I'm curious how you feel about pushing that concept as far as it can go. If the bodily autonomy of the mother supersedes all rights to the fetus, should the mother be legally allowed to... -Take thalidomide: anti-nausea medicine that causes birth defects? -Smoke, drink, do drugs, and/or take thalidomide to intentionally deform her fetus? -Have multiple abortions for the sole purpose of an art project? -Actively use drugs to torture a fetus? Even many proponents of the bodily sovereignty argument have trouble justifying the latter few of these examples. But it does follow that if a mother can do anything she wants to a human inside her, all of these examples should be permissible.
Absolutely. It’s her body. I’m ok with all those examples. It’s not the woman’s fault that a child has attached itself to her body. We shouldn’t punish women because nature has decided that women create people. Nature doesn’t control us anymore, we have won that fight already. Nature says rape is ok, we don’t. Nature says killing others is ok. We don’t. Nature is not equal to morality.
I'm curious why you feel bodily autonomy is so absolute that it overrides another's right to life, even extending to a 40-week-old fetus. And why does the mother's bodily autonomy (to not have a fetus in it) override the fetus's bodily autonomy (to not be killed)? Let's try a thought experiment. Say we lived in a world where a fetus could only get larger than the womb after being born, but could still grow mentally. A mother decides not to give birth to her baby, but instead keep him in the womb indefinitely as a prisoner, as the baby gradually gains more knowledge. Should the mother legally be allowed to do this on the basis of bodily autonomy?
Why do I think bodily autonomy is absolute? I’m not sure, it just “feels right” to me. Your thought experiment has the same answer from me. Who owns the womb? The owner of the womb decides what lives in it, for how long, and has the right to terminate or torture anything in her womb. It’s HER womb. Nobody has the RIGHT to live in it. Nobody has the RIGHT to using another person’s organs to live.
Having the right to refuse the use of your body to another human being doesn't mean you have a right to torture anyone using your body. How does that follow?
Anyone using your body against your will is subject to any violence you may wish to dish out. It’s my property, trespass at your own risk.

No, I'd say at least 99% of prochoicers don't really believe the fetus is a person\human. I've come across several prochoice supporters that defend abortion purely on a bodily rights basis and claim to believe that abortion is wrong, but when I ask them if embryonic stem cell research should be made illegal, they either don't answer or admit they are OK with it. So honestly I think even among the prochoicers who claim to believe the fetus is a human being very, very few truly believe it is equal to a born infant.
I think anyone who believes that birth should be the cutoff (this category includes every mainstream pro-abortion lobbying group, Planned Parenthood, the Democratic party, etc...) is being willfully ignorant.  To hold the position that a 40 week old child in the womb is not deserving of life requires either willful ignorance or active embracing of evil (such as in the case of Kermit Gosnell, who although he was many things, was not ignorant of what he was doing). I can understand (though don't agree with) someone who says that a newly formed zygote is not a person, but if you don't believe  the cutoff is conception, and you don't believe the cutoff is birth, then I would suggest the onus is on you to propose and lobby for a  different point after which elective abortions should be prohibited.  And that should be a point with a logically consistent reasoning, based on the level of fetal development, otherwise its just another version of willfull ignorance.
To be fair, not all of them even deny personhood in the first place. Some readily claim they believe in the personhood and right-to-life of the unborn, adding that it doesn't supersede the mother's bodily autonomy, or something like that. Barring that, I honestly can't assume where they're coming from, whether it's willful ignorance or a genuine but inconsistent opinion. Or if they just have a completely unreachable worldview. It's too hard to tell at the outset.
Thank you for asking this question -- it has been a fascinating thread to read. I want to let you know that we pro-choicers can in fact answer questions, and this question might be well-suited to /r/abortiondebate . In life, I have found it helpful never to assume that the other side takes their position out of ignorance, willful or otherwise.  We are all people trying to make our way through this world.  If it seems incomprehensible to you how they hold their side, it is better to try to understand them rather than dismiss them as ignorant. It's also less rude, so when you post on /r/abortiondebate try not to come across as "are pro-choicers evil or stupid?", please.
I apologize if I came across that way. I don't think pro-choicers are evil or stupid, honestly I think they just have different values and experiences. I will look into posting there in the future.
If you do post it there, don't let the other side convince you that you are being rude just by posing an honest question. Some people will attempt to discredit you by claiming you're rude for even asking why they would ignore science and logic, like this person just did. It's a valid question and you'll notice that your question was not answered, rather accused of being rude. So keep that in mind. If they attack the spirit of a perfectly valid question, they are, in fact, being willfully ignorant.
Yes I can see what you are saying, and I hate it when people try to discredit honest questions or valid points by claiming someone is rude. However, I have found that when people call me rude for asking, they might have good reason for saying that. During these discussions wording is very important. I think when people feel strongly about things (which is not a bad thing imo) they tend to be less tolerant to statements that are not worded perfectly. By this I mean they might jump on a mildly inaccurate word used instead of trying to understand a persons overall premise (I.E. human person vs human life). All this to say, I can see how this question could have come across as rude. I had trouble wording this question, I think in general I did well, but because I worded it with a pro life audience in mind I was less attentive to what might frame pro choicers in a negative light or in such a way that implies their opinions are less valid than anyone else's. All that said, I really appreciate your encouragement. It is really nice to read, so thank you for that. Also, I do think the person who posted before answered the question in their third paragraph. Additionally, since part of their comment was referring me to place to post further questions, personally I find them answering the question to be of less importance because their comment does not have content that would distract others from answering the question at hand.
You are very level headed. I have to confess, at the same time I read your post I was having a disagreement with a pro-choice person I found to be entirely disingenuous and I projected, which I should not have done. It can be a difficult thing, for me at least. You seem well suited for the discussions, though. Both sides need more level headed people so we can find a way to work this out.
Thank you, and I completely agree.
They genuinely believe in the right of a woman to power over her own body. They understand where we come from and why, but for the most part, they define personhood based on different biological parameters than we do. Some believe it's the development of the heart, and others, the brain. The question they ask here is not "what makes us human", which is our definition of personhood, but "What makes it possible for a baby to survive outside of a womb?" They more or less base their definition of personhood on survival, rather than classification. Having been caught in many debates, this is a belief about which there is no question. There are viable "babies" who have fully developed hearts, brains, and lungs, and can survive outside of a uterus, and then there's the unviable zygote/embryo/fetus. Human or not, they do not see it as a person, however human and natural their origin may be.
The very nature of sin is that it's a trick, a trap.  You want so much (temptation) to put your will ahead of what you're supposed to do, you'll go through any rationalization to move past your cognitive dissonance.
Yes, a semi conscious awareness that the fetus is in fact a human child and that if they accept that they would have to accept a slew of changes to their sexual reality and that the abortion debate essentially comes down to making women whores at the expense of becoming child killers.
A little ridiculous.
Why?
If my girlfriend told me she was getting an abortion I'd say, "OK, what can I do to make to feel better and help, this must be really tough for you", if she said she was going to kill our 5 year old, would stop her via any means necessary including force and have possible have her committed and get a restraining order and all that. That tells me that I literally don't view those things as similar and therefore am not denying any truth. If someone says that got an abortion it literally doesn't bother me and if someone killed another person in cold blood I would think they deserve to be jailed.
So, its dangerous to base laws and norms on feelings rather than logic, because your culture can largely determine your feelings, and culture can change from year to year. Some cultures think it is fun and not at all disturbing to put burning tires around their enemies' necks, and some cultures have thousands of children participating in war who grow up to not even flinch at killing. 70 years ago, a majority in America would have felt less consternation at a black person being killed than a white person. If we want human rights, it has to be based on a consistent train of logic, and not how a majority of people feel about a certain group of other people.
There is no logic to it though. It's just values, and we base most laws on values. Logic does not tell you when personhood starts, or when people should get rights, or even that people have rights in the first place. Those are all social constructs based on people's values.
Well, you're partially right, the fact that any human being at all deserves to live and not be killed is a value But once you've established whether or not you hold that value, logic comes into play. Either no human being has the right to life, so long as the prevailing culture feeeels good about it (that could be you someday, or your ma), or human beings have the right to life.
Many people literally do not hold the value that any human cannot be killed, when the definition of human includes a fetus. If you don't hold that value then there isn't much wrong with abortion. The vast majority of people hold the value the people shouldn't be killed, people being defined as born and alive human beings. So we have laws against that.
Values are not immune to logical scrutiny though. Is there any non-emotional basis for you to exclude unborn people from people
Some derivative values might be, there are certain things where if you value X then you must also value Y. But this is a rather basic value, so I don't think there is much to scrutinize. The basis for excluding fetuses from people is the same as excluding dogs and cats, they just aren't what I consider people. I don't know what other belief I would have that would force me to logically conclude that a fetus was a person.
Logically, a fetus or embryo is a distinct human being. Its DNA is human and unique and it is living. Therefore, it is logically a person. Dogs and cats are logically not human, so you would exclude them from the “person” category.
That only works if your definition of person is "a something with unique human DNA" if you're definition is different something like "a human that has been born" then a fetus is logically not a person. And there is not a correct or scientific definition for what is and is not a person, it is a social construct.
Or we could not let people choose their own definitions of things. The oxford dictionary never mentions birth as a prerequisite of being a person. Human is synonymous with person. Human has a scientific definition, which also has no birth prerequisite

Are you not even presenting an argument other than what my 5 year old does when i ask him why he won't do something?
Because there isn't an argument that needs to be made, it's a value judgement. It's like asking why I like vanilla more than chocolate, I just do. What is your argument for only giving rights to humans and not other animals?
You're doing it again. "Why should fetuses be legally killable?" "Because i feel like it" "Why should it be based on feelings?" "Because i feel like that too"

Well if they are the foundation from which you build your logic then it would be odd and difficult to use that same logic to dismantle the value.
I don't think you should devalue feelings so much. Often times they work as our moral compasses. Logic and feelings,(mainly empathy) have to work together to create a just world. Logic can justify a lot of terrible things. Feelings can make people over look a lot of terrible things. One without the other is just asking for trouble. And honestly, I have yet to see an argument really go anywhere that does not at some point appeal to emotions.
http://wrtl.org/abortion/pictures-of-aborted-babies/#AbortionPictures Abortion procedures: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CFZDhM5Gwhk
And... I can show you gory pictures of people dying in car accidents, is that gonna stop you from driving?
Dying in a car accident is not the natural end result or goal of driving, whereas a human dying is the goal of abortion. I think the point Mein_Name_ist_Jeff makes in his post is in challenging your position that you "don't care" about abortion-related deaths. While I think the use of abortion pictures should be done carefully (usually by asking someone first), it does often change pro-choicers' minds about the procedure because it highlights the grim reality of the situation and often brings about an emotional response (granted, usually in later-term abortions, but still).
Yes exactly! Thanks.
I still don't understand why a picture would change my mind.
Photos of post-abortive bodies can change some people's minds because it recontextualizes abortion in a new way for those people; what they may have previously dismissed as being less than human (or they simply hadn't fully considered the ramifications of abortion) gets seen in a different light when a photo shows something that looks very much like a dead, eviscerated baby. Showing a gory picture of a surgical site would have a similar "gross-out" effect on people, but it's not giving them relevant, new information, which is key. Everyone knows that someone's chest is full of organs and blood, while many pro-choicers who've changed their minds from these pictures weren't as aware of how "human" the aborted unborn can be.
I mean there are some pretty peaceful pictures of aborted fetus's. Ironically, most in utero photos the pro life cause use to show the autonomy of the fetus were actually taken of aborted fetus's.
I don't know how that challenges anything. I am not a 9 year old, my beliefs aren't gonna be challenged by a picture. Its gory, I could show you pictures from leg amputations or open hear surgery, people are generally averse to gory things. That's like thinking someone should be against gay marriage because the image of two men having anal sex isn't very pleasant. Dying in care accident can certainly be the end result of driving, does that fact that it only might happen make a difference?
Open heart surgery is a good thing that why a picture of it doesnt convince people to be against it. Its obviously different when you show a picture of a dead kid when argue that this shouldnt be done.
The car metaphor doesnt make sense. a metaphore that would make sense is intentionally crashing a car with the intent of causing a crash.
If you think abortion is a good thing, or rather, a solution to a bad thing, why would a picture of it make someone against it?
My goodness this is outdated information.

Conservative party members and pro-life advocates were warned that Andrew Scheer would prevent/punish pro-life MPs if elected leader. He was and he is now punishing them.
Life News is a cancer on the pro-life movement. They've shown no qualms about sensationalizing or just outright lying about stories. They piggyback off of the more reasonable reputation of LiveSiteNews, but use their platform as pure Conservative propaganda, rather than actual pro-life thought. They are arguably the worst of us and it's sickening every time I see them pop up on any of my feeds.
This.
That.
Any statement that expresses a pro-life view can be described as "conservative propaganda", depending on your definition of conservatism. What is "actual pro-life thought" and how is different from "conservative propaganda"? P.S. Don't like lifenews.com either.
What I mean is, they are all or nothing. So take Bob Casey Jr. He voted to ban abortions after 20 weeks, but he also won't defund Planned Parenthood. They paint him as 100% pro-abortion. Now, I disagree with his conclusions about PP, but it's unfair that he's treated that way. He introduced the Pregnant Women Support Act, which gave money to tons of actual services for mothers, but he gets no credit from them for that. Meanwhile, they call Mr. Trump the most pro-life president ever despite doing really nothing legislatively. Yes, he rescinded the Mexico City thing, so I give him credit for that. But they go on and on about him, and how Gorsuch is so pro-life despite the fact Gorsuch never ruled once on an abortion case and is in love with precedent. Frankly, Mr. Casey as done as much or more for pregnant women than Donald Trump, who hasn't done much at all, and they demonize Casey and idolize Trump because Trump is a Republican. Also, constantly cite their own page and nothing else and I hate that.
Pro Choicer here. Any reputable and good quality pro life blog or publications you would recommend instead?
Secular Pro-life is good, because it's very focused on science rather than the religious aspect. I'm not meaning to assume anything about your beliefs, it's just that I've always felt that arguments tend to be more convincing from a scientific stand point, despite my own religious beliefs.
As is IME typical for LifeNews, the article sensationalizes the matter to a certain extent. Both the CBC and the Montreal Gazette take pains to point out that Scheer refused to comment on whether or not Falk would be disciplined. That said, though, Scheer's statements that he and his party would "respect the decision of the courts" are both deeply scandalous and at least savour of heresy. An unjust law is no law, and a law or judicial ruling giving legal sanction to the murder of the unborn is therefore of no force or effect. As a Catholic, he is obliged under pain of mortal sin (specifically, heresy and scandal) to act accordingly, both privately and publicly.
He's not going to be sanctioned.He got zero internal blowback

I hadn’t heard about this policy before, that’s absolutely insane. In the USA this policy would be unconstitutional for violating both freedom of speech and freedom of religion, no question. I read that it’s being challenged in court in Canada, any Canadians who can weigh in on the chances of success? Not sure how Canada’s Constitution differs from the US’s on those issues.
First off, the Canadian constitution is very easy to change by the party/coalition in power so it doesn't carry as much weight behind it as the U.S. constitution. In their constitution, the government is allowed to pass laws that limit free speech so long as they are justified in a free society. The argument for this law is that no one is guaranteed this summer grant, so restricting it is well within the scope of the government, especially when they are only restricting the actions of a hateful group. Canadian free speech is much more like the U.K. than the U.S. so it will probably be upheld.
In the US the gov’t can restrict free speech in certain situations. But the argument that a certain benefit isn’t guaranteed doesn’t change the free speech analysis. The government cannot punish you on account of your free expression, but it can’t deny you a generally available benefit for that expression either. That’s because it punishes free speech the same way- if someone has a certain viewpoint in Canada then they’re punished by being excluded from eligibility for this grant. Having vague and easily changed limits on state power makes it much easier for the state to abuse its citizens’ rights. This is seriously scary stuff.
I agree.
Wow, literal thoughtcrimes.
Ok fascists.

"I want my son to grow up"
I have a conspiracy theory that Cecile Richards is an internet troll. One time she said "Here at planned parenthood we firmly beilve that everyone has the right to live....."
I remember that. No self-awareness.
That baby looks like someone just explained abortion to him.
That it's a black baby can't be a coincidence either.
Fair point.
You all understand planned parenthood isn’t an abortion clinic right? If it was an establishment with the soul purpose of preforming these procedures do You really think it would be called “planned parenthood”?
We know it is not solely an abortion clinic.  We also know that it both performs and promotes abortion on-demand.  We further know that there are other places that can use the funding that do the same thing as PP, except they don't kill humans as a service offering.
People are functionally illiterate, especially types like Raquel. What does Raquel think "reproductive" means?  I bet Raquel thinks it means "SECKS" 11 out of 10 odds Raquel's son was "assigned female at birth"
Also what does "learning sex education" mean? That's not how any of this works. Also what is a reproductive life?
That's why she obviously thinks "reproduction" is a fancy word for "sex" lol. These people need to learn their education!


I get ur point but this was just to quiet the pro choicers who always say this
"People living" INCLUDES the unborn
That's nice, but also irrelevant.  The argument that this is trying to disarm is the claim that you only care about the life of the unborn until the point of birth, and that this disqualifies your belief/argument/PoV. This is similar to another common (but weaker) argument: You aren't a woman, you don't get an opinion, since it doesn't affect you. This premise is incorrect.  I have no obligation to provide anyone financial support to live their life. I do not have to be willing to support an assault victim financially before I can condemn the attacker or lobby to make assault illegal.  I do not have to pay for a rape victim's psychiatric treatment before I condemn the rapist or lobby to make rape illegal.  Nor do I have to financially support a mother before I condemn the abortionist who tries to kill her child. If you are "just pro-birth" that's ok.  You don't have to be more to have a moral leg to stand on.
"You're just pro-birth" is one of the most prolific pieces of untrue slander in the entire pro-choice arsenal. I can't stand this fallback excuse and it has no basis in reality. I think people latch onto it because pro-lifers are often (but not always) conservative, which often (but not always) pushes for welfare reform and such. But it's important to remember that wanting something done more effectively is different than being opposed to the concept outright, and conservatives actually give MORE to the poor than liberals: http://www.thefiscaltimes.com/2014/10/17/Who-s-More-Generous-Liberals-or-Conservatives One of the only things I find more annoying than that accusation is the one that accuses Christians of never helping the poor. As a Catholic myself, I appreciate this quick summation of the Catholic Church's contributions in Africa.
Just settin’ the record straight is all, I’ve come to realize the pro-choice viewpoint is filled with more lunacy every day, especially after seeing steven crowder’s change my mind sessions
Untrue.  Any "prolife" Libertarian/Republican is just "pro-birth" and unapologetically so....
How often do you donate to single mothers charities/shelters?
As often as I can, and volunteer.
Is this sarcasm? I honestly can't tell. If it's sincere, it sounds like the reddit equivalent of putting one's fingers in one's ears and saying "Nuh-uh!" You didn't address anything I said at all.
nuhuh dey're rethuglicans
We need more of these kinds of posts in this sub
Unsourced, biased facebook meme's?  No,  you don't need more of it, anywhere in the world.
It's empowering to know what kind of good religious orgs are doing around the world when most pro-lifers are religious and they condemned by the pro-choice movement as being "tools of the patriarchy" and not concerned with the general well being of women or their access to helathcare. I agree with your assertion that the image should have a source. So I'm sharing with you the results from a google search that may highlight some of the positive work the Catholic Church is doing around the world. I am not a Catholic and only refer to them because that is the subject matter of this post. https://www.crs.org/our-work-overseas/where-we-work
I'm sure they do positive work throughout the world.  There's a billion of them, it's the largest religion in the world...I would expect that they would be helping millions.   My comment isn't about whether or not they do good work.  It was about using numbers and phrases that don't make sense, or are just not true.  It's about the proliferation of false numbers and data, or at the very least, skewed numbers and data that don't paint the whole picture. It's great that they're doing work in Africa. It's a third world continent, and I'm sure they get all sorts of help, religious and non-religious.  But, let's not forget that these are also the most vulnerable people on the planet.  And if whoever is creating ill-formed, false facebook meme's to share with fellow Catholics, can you imagine what they are telling people in Africa?
Citations?
The Catholic Church
Yeah... that's not really a citation. Disclaimer: am Catholic
What is sanity education? honestly curious "1673 Family Counseling?"  What? Centers? Not saying it's all fake, but....it's a facebook meme.  Take it with a grain of salt
Just sounds like a bad translation. The hospital numbers don't sound particularly off, as from what I can tell the Church runs about 5,500 hospitals worldwide, mostly in developing countries, so 1,134 in Africa sounds like it would fit, possibly even be a little low. I am having a hard time fact checking numbers on the rest, but let's be clear, where had you not heard of a Catholic hospital or school or clinic outside of countries that absolutely forbid those institutions?  And then realize the fact that most of the health care faculties and schools in Africa were created by missionaries. I mean, it's a little ridiculous to accuse institutions like the Catholic Church of not caring for people's well being when they are one of the largest charity organizations in the world.  Meme or not, that pro-choice talking point has never held up to scrutiny.
Sure, this is true.  I'm not arguing that.  But, just as much as that is true, the opposite is true.  There are plenty of elements within the Church related to adult and child abuses.  So, it's not exactly something that's never held up to scrutiny.  It's been shown many times. But even that isn't the point.  There are plenty of great talking points that the Prolife movement can use, yet they create and spread false-ish stuff like this.  It's irresponsible, and discredits the cause.  I can't understand why this stuff proliferates, when I'm sure there are plenty of things that can be truthfully, and eloquently, laid out for the argument, without resorting to lame tactics like an irrelevant facebook post that contains false information, some of which simply doesn't make sense, and is provided without any sourcing.
I mean... is it false data?  I can't validate all the numbers immediately, but nothing seems absurd about the numbers. Again, lines like "sanity education" could simply be bad translations of "mental health institutions" or something else. It's certainly not well-presented, but that doesn't mean it is false.
I did say take it with a  grain of salt.  For me, it's a massive, giant grain of salt.  Others choose to not be so bothered by it.  But, if you're standards of presentation and well-presented material are this low, and you're that forgiving (generally speaking) and easily influenced by this, it's unfortunately very telling.  There's a reason we were told 20 years ago, to not believe everything on the internet.  These kinds of "info-meme's" are exactly what was being referred to.
I think it needs to be cleaned up and get some citations and I certainly won't believe the numbers are exact without them, but let's be clear.  The Catholic Church's charity operations are hardly a secret.  They're extensive and international.  They're hardly indicative of an organization that doesn't care about living people's lives.
The issue is that in countries that do have abortion bans, what women do is they'll take Misoprostol in order to abort a baby that's less than 8 weeks old.Of course it only works around 88% of the time, and the rest of the time the baby lives but with severe birth defects.Now the issue is that Misoprostol is very cheap. It's maybe $6 for a dose. It's cheap enough that women in El Salvador can afford it on the black market.We already know from experience that drug control legislation isn't the most effective. We also know that it has a disproportionate impact on the least well off. No middle class white girl will ever be prosecuted under any sort of abortion ban most likely.Right now we have this image of abortion as some complex medical processed performed by health care pros. But that's not the reality, in this era of modern medicine you just need to take a pregnancy test followed by a pill.Now banning its sale in stores makes sense, as does maybe going after dealers of illegal drugs, but does prosecuting women who buy Misoprostol for their own use even make sense?
At some point, there will be a limit to what laws can do.  I think we all understand this. We will have to work to change viewpoints in society to save the rest of these lives.  That will be hard going. But certainly removing the legal status of abortion is a necessary step on that path.  Not only to stop as many abortions as possible, but also to ensure that government power isn't used to promote the practice and buttress a pro-abortion status quo in society.
There seems to be a misunderstanding here that our goal is to entirely eliminate elective abortions. While that's certainly a goal of ours in terms of something that we'd like to push towards, I think you'll find that we're under no illusion that we'll be able to actually reach that horizon. We have laws against murder, rape, and slavery, and those things unfortunately do still happen, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't have laws against them.
Of course. Wouldn't you punish someone who bought poison to kill their 1 year old?
Meant to write "coercive laws" oops.
Yes, I think making it just like any other drug that is illegal to obtain without a prescription would make sense. Doesn't mean someone has to go to jail for it. What is Ireland doing? How is that working? I think dismissing the entire issue with the assumption that women will easily and willingly obtain these drugs elsewhere is faulty. There's no evidence that's the case.
It’s estimated that 3 Irish women take pills purchased from the net every day, plus  9 travel to the UK per day  . So they still have abortion, it’s just in a different country
Citation?
Women travelling https://www.ifpa.ie/Hot-Topics/Abortion/Statistics. Pills requested https://www.google.co.uk/amp/www.thejournal.ie/abortion-pill-use-in-ireland-3892752-Apr2018/%3famp=1
Thanks. JW where are you getting 3 women per day for pills taken? The report from the first link says That's a full 3 year period, which would be 341 per year which is less than one per day. The same study mentions that more women requested abortion pills, but Ireland seized the majority of them. As far as the number traveling to the UK per day, that one looks accurate. There are 1,369,438 women of reproductive age in Ireland (2018), 3265 accessing abortion services in 2016 (latest year listed).  That's 0.2% of the female population. If we assume each woman is getting one abortion, that's a rate of 2.3 per 1000. Wikipedia puts it at 4.5 per 1000. This is in contrast to the US which has had rates between 14.6 (most recent) to 29.3 per 1000. So yes, some women are still having abortions, however it's not at nearly the rate of a comparable country where abortions are legal for any reason up til birth.
It seems that your comment contains 1 or more links that are hard to tap for mobile users. I will extend those so they're easier for our sausage fingers to click! Here is link number 1 - Previous text "US" Please PM /u/eganwall with issues or feedback! | Delete
The three a days is 'estimated' as obviously they don't know for sure. https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/women-would-risk-illegal-abortion-pills-rather-than-go-to-uk-dpffjwcjg
Again, where are you getting that number? Please link and quote directly. This link has a few sentences before being cut off with a sign-up.
https://www.belfasttelegraph.co.uk/news/republic-of-ireland/five-women-a-day-seek-online-abortion-pills-study-finds-36863573.html Link to study in BMJ https://www.bmj.com/content/357/bmj.j2011
Is there something about "quote directly" you didn't understand? This is the same study you keep citing and it gives the same 1023 number.
I think that if you're asking on /r/prolife you know what kind of opinion you will get.  Consider /r/abortiondebate.

Happy mother's day!

Wow, you're so edgy.
Seriously?

This post had nothing to do with abortion and if you think it did I don't know what to say to you.
No I realize that the original post wasn't about abortion. I just find it ironic how supportive Reddit is towards handicapped individuals, specifically talking about how their families love and care for them, unless the topic is abortion. Then they're burdens that no family should have to deal with and probably should have been aborted.
If there's one consistency there, it's that the unborn's value is proportional to how much their parents want them. (yeah, I don't understand it either)
I would say that it’s the belief that embryo/ unborn baby does not  have much intrinsic value, but the parent’ s desire give it value, as its then cared about .

Not all pro-lifers are conservative, and not all conservatives are pro-lifers. The issue with a two-party system is that in many cases, you can't just vote for specific issues--you have to vote for a "bundle" of them, which often includes ideas or bills you disagree with. But if you ask me--given a binary choice between two "sides"--it's far preferable to vote for the one that allows disabled children to live in the first place rather than the one that supports killing them in the womb. For many pro-lifers, the issue of abortion is bigger than the age-old political party bickering, and they'd gladly support pro-life democrats if more of them actually existed.
Being a pro-life Democrat I identify pretty closely with this statement. I really don't care for most Republican social policy, but the congnitive dissonance required for /u/Instaconfused27 to complain about conservative policy being bad for the disabled while espousing an ideology that tends to prefer disabled people never to be born is absolutely astonishing. Having worked with many disabled people, including a few people with Down Syndrome, I hate the lack of care we give to them. Services are under funded and society tends to prefer disabled people to just disappear. But the push to eliminate things like Down Syndrome through abortion just makes the perception that disabled lives have no value all the more pervasive. /u/Instaconfused27 has a lot of misplaced compassion and I'm sure he or she means well, but just isn't seeing how their position is a harmful devaluation of human life, particularly human life that needs the most help. That said, he or she is right that conservative social policy tends to do the same thing, just after birth. I've often stated to friends that choosing a political party is all about who you're ok with letting suffer and/or die. /u/Instaconfused27 is ok with letting babies die. Our Republican leadership is ok with letting the poor die. Personally, I'm not ok with either, and I think most pro-life individuals aren't either.
Strawmaning and making contextualized generalizations seems to be a habit of Pro-Lifers. There is nothing within the pro-choice perspective that advocates for a specific targetting of people with disabilities. Pro-Choice only extends to the support of legal abortion and a mother's right to use that legal service in a way that she see's fit within the capacity of reasons. As I said earlier. It is the "pro-life" party that is primarily the one that is harming our special education system to deal with disabled individuals. Perhaps you would do better to look at the benefits of legal abortion. Estimates of the annual number of illegal abortions in the 1950s and 1960s range from 200,000 to 1.2 million. In 1969, one year before New York State legalized abortion, complications from illegal abortions accounted for 23 percent of all pregnancy-related admissions to municipal hospitals in New York City. In 1973, the risk of dying from an abortion was 3.4 deaths per 100,000 legal abortions. This rate fell to 1.3 by 1977. Today, the risk of death associated with abortion increases with the length of pregnancy, from one death for every one million vacuum aspiration abortions at eight or fewer weeks to 8.9 deaths after 20 weeks’ gestation. Couples at risk of having children affected with severe and often fatal genetic disorders have been willing to conceive because of the availability of amniocentesis and safe, legal abortion. Compared to states that support women’s health, those states that oppose safe and legal abortion spend far less money per child on a range of services such as foster care, education, welfare, and the adoption of children who have physical and mental disabilities. The states that have the strongest laws against safe and legal abortion are also the states in which women suffer from lower levels of education and higher levels of poverty, as well as from a lower ratio of female-to male earnings. They also have a lower percentage of women in the legislature and fewer mandates requiring insurance providers to cover minimum hospital stays after childbirth. A study was done on pro-life profiles and the attitudes of those who opposed abortion. In a further examination of these relationships, the researchers utilized the National Farmers Union ratings of U.S. senators on a scale from zero to one hundred to study the senators' support of legislation that helped families and their children—such as support of school lunch and milk programs. This rating was based upon the senators' voting records on fifteen different bills and was interpreted by this writer as a valid and reliable measure of family nurturance. It was found that the average Family Nurturance Score of senators who supported abortion rights of women and opposed capital punishment was ninety-six out of one hundred. The average family nurturance score of the senators who opposed abortion rights of women and supported capital punishment was forty-four out of one hundred—less than half of the family nurturance score of the pro-choice senators. It was concluded from the above data that the anti-abortion ideology did not reflect compassion and respect for human life but, rather, an ideology of authoritarian control over the personal lives of individuals that included violent means of human oppression.
I'm not calling you a liar, but that last link doesn't allow me to read the study, so I can't examine the methods or even the conclusions. As to strawmen, the thing about that is, it's absolutely true that the pro-choice side espouses the idea that disabled babies are better off dead. You literally say it here: "Couples at risk of having children affected with severe and often fatal genetic disorders have been willing to conceive because of the availability of amniocentesis and safe, legal abortion." What's interesting is, you say it but the link you provided doesn't. Do you read this stuff? But let me go on. Your last two bulleted links go to the same page and neither says what you claim it does. And the first three links don't address at all what you were responding to me saying. So here's the thing, you probably mean well. But if you are going to pour in links, try not to assume I'm not going to read them. Lying doesn't help anyone. Oops, I did just call you a liar.
PART 1 OF MY RESPONSE You can find the two studies in full here: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/242385948_Abortion_and_the_Right-to-Life_Facts_Fallacies_and_Fraud_II_Psychometric_Studies https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/dc25/b3e85a0d4f3c44ad7e67664cc714a674636b.pdf Once again that is completely false. The pro-choice perspective is about simply in regards to a mother's choice in regards to the reproductive decisions. In the words of the Association of Reproductive Health Care Professionals: “Abortion care is a critical component of comprehensive reproductive health care, and ARHP supports a woman’s right to choose to have an abortion. The decision to continue or terminate a pregnancy belongs to the pregnant woman. ARHP opposes any judicial, legislative, or administrative attempt at the local, state, or federal levels to ban any abortion procedure or medical procedure to terminate a pregnancy.” I would say this idea encapsulates the pro-choice position and nowhere does it insinuate the popular strawmen of "pro-choice eugenics" that pro-lifers seem to fantasize about. First off there is a huge difference between general disabilities and the fatal and severe medical problems that I referenced in my claim. These are the types of cases we generally see in late-term abortions. these cases can be medically necessary and the legalization of abortion has allowed the relief and knowledge that life-saving and medically necessary care can be given in the case this tragically occur. My original link was a fact sheet from Planned Parenthood that contained numerous research and citations on the medical and social health benefits on the legalization of abortion. I copied the claim word for word directly from the source I cited from. The link I gave you clearly provided a full citation for the claim which was as follows: Milunsky, Aubrey. (1989). Choices, Not Chances: An Essential Guide to Your Heredity and Health. Boston: Little, Brown, and Company. So yes, I do "read" this stuff. I gave you a direct source and the original citation of the claim. Let's go through this shall we? Both the claims were taken from an updated fact sheet that is linked here. The citation for these 2 claims was given as here: Schroedel, Jean Reith. (2000). Is the Fetus a Person? A Comparison of Policies across the Fifty States. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.* The full research paper can be accessed here which does indeed back up my initial assertions: https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/american-political-science-review/article/is-the-fetus-a-person-a-comparison-of-policies-across-the-fifty-states-by-jean-reith-schroedel-ithaca-ny-cornell-university-press-2000-256p-2995/9B0252014C348CF03D340F36DAD7F38F The claims I made can also be verified by other data as well. The 2017 Evaluating Priorities report found once again that the more abortion restrictions a state has passed, the fewer evidence-based supportive policies exist, and the poorer the health and well-being outcomes for women and children. The updated research also identified two categories of states: those that have passed seven or fewer abortion restrictions and those that have passed 10 or more. States in the latter category appear to account for a disproportionately large number of the more than 330 abortion restrictions passed in states since 2011. We posit that this reflects the overwhelming influence of anti-abortion organizations that push one-size-fits-all policies to state legislators that do nothing to actually help the women and children they claim to be protecting. Specific findings in the report include: The more abortion restrictions a state has on the books, the fewer evidence-based policies in place that promote the health and well-being of women and children.For example, Louisiana has 13 laws restricting a woman’s access to safe and legal abortion, but only 11 policies (out of the possible 24 included in the analysis) which support the health and well-being of women and children. States that have the most restrictions on abortion tend to have the worst health outcomes for women and children. For example, Texas has 11 laws restricting a woman’s access to safe and legal abortion on the books and also some of the worst health outcomes for women and children. Specifically, Texas performs worse than the national benchmarks on maternal, infant, and teen mortality rates. At least 10 major categories of abortion restrictions—including measures based on claims of protecting a woman’s health—lack a foundation in rigorous scientific evidence. These restrictions include unnecessary regulations on abortion facilities and providers, counseling and waiting period requirements that belie the scientific evidence, and laws based on false assertions about when fetuses can feel pain. Let's take a step back for shall we? Your original statement to me was: I responded in part by first providing the definition of what my position espouses, which is broad support for legalization abortion and second providing evidence that shows the health benefits of legal abortion and the social benefits to our society. The evidence consisted of showing how legalized abortion has reduced a huge amount of abortions, and how legalized abortion has made the procedure safer. In fact as the of the present, Abortion is 14 times safer than childbirth.. As I have shown there are countless benefits to legal abortion, thus showing how the pro-choice position is consistent with protecting and maintaining the quality of human life. The links I have provided to you clearly show and demonstrate my position, if you reject their findings, the onus is on you to provide evidence. And since you provide no actual evidence proving me wrong. What can be asserted without evidence can be dismissed without evidence. Alright, so when looking a the full autopsy of the discussion, it's clear to any rational observer that I provided accurate and relevant information in regards to the points I made. I provided the direct source of where I got my information, as well as the reputable and credible research that it originated from. I have also supplemented a lot of my original claims with additional evidence as well. It seems to me your narrow ideological outlook prevents you from accepting and acknowledging the factual evidence that is detrimental to your self-constructed narrative and thus leaves to resorting to hand-waving and self-denial on the reality of the evidence that is presented to you.
PART 2 OF MY RESPONSE Wanna talk about Lying? Then let's talk about the Pro-Life movement, which seems to have a love affair with distorting the truth. Let's first look at Crises Pregnancy Centers that Pro-lifers like to brag about so much. A larger examination of 254 CPC websites, published in Contraception in 2014, found that 80 percent provided at least one item of false or misleading information — most commonly, claiming links between abortion and mental health concerns. A study published in 2017 in Women’s Health Issues focused on the websites of crisis pregnancy centers in Georgia. It reviewed all of the accessible websites of the CPCs in the state and found that more than half had “false or misleading statements regarding the need to make a decision about abortion or links between abortion and mental health problems or breast cancer.” Researchers from the University of North Carolina who visited 19 CPCs in the state from March to June of 2011 found that nearly half “provide counseling on abortion and its risks,” and over half provided at least one piece of information that was misleading or false, ranging from the efficacy of condoms to links between abortion and infertility, breast cancer and mental health problems. We could also talk about the "Breast Cancer and Abortion" link that seems to popular from pro-lifers. An assertion that has been debunked time and time again. Or should we talk about the famous medically inaccurate silent scream video? I am going to guess like most Pro-Lifers you are a Christian. So I will leave you with some scripture reading. “Do not judge, or you too will be judged. For in the same way you judge others, you will be judged, and with the measure you use, it will be measured to you. “Why do you look at the speck of sawdust in your brother’s eye and pay no attention to the plank in your own eye? How can you say to your brother, ‘Let me take the speck out of your eye,’ when all the time there is a plank in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the plank out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother’s eye. Matthew 7:1-5
Remind me which /r/prochoice mod always resorts to whataboutisms on posts that offend him. Oh right. It’s /u/Instaconfused27!
I am only offended by things that are incorrect. This far-reaching attempt at coupling the reactions of a small Reddit post and extrapolating them to the larger pro-choice movement is a mere assertion with no evidence backing it up. Meanwhile, there is plenty of credible evidence that shows Pro-Lifers are consistent with views and policies that reduce the quality of human life, one example being special education. Trying to point out logical fallacies where none exist, just makes you look stupid bud.
It’s not uncommon for pro-choicers to rationalize abortions by exploiting the difficulties of disabilities and other fetal abnormalities. They stigmatize the lives of the disabled by preferring (and recommending) that they be aborted killed while still in the womb. Stop turning a blind eye to things that make your side look bad, especially for something as common as this. More whataboutisms and deflections? I’ll give it a try myself: pro-choicers are consistent with views and policies that result in more human deaths killings. (Am I doing it right?)
Strawmaning and making contextualized generalizations seems to be a habit of Pro-Lifers. There is nothing within the pro-choice perspective that advocates for a specific targetting of people with disabilities. Pro-Choice only extends to the support of legal abortion and a mother's right to use that legal service in a way that she see's fit within the capacity of reasons. As I said earlier. It is the "pro-life" party that is primarily the one that is harming our special education system to deal with disabled individuals. You haven't provided any evidence for your position. You only rely on your own personal assertions field by a narrow and ideological worldview. Nope. Just plain hard facts. Compared to states that support women’s health, those states that oppose safe and legal abortion spend far less money per child on a range of services such as foster care, education, welfare, and the adoption of children who have physical and mental disabilities.. The states that have the strongest laws against safe and legal abortion are also the states in which women suffer from lower levels of education and higher levels of poverty, as well as from a lower ratio of female-to male earnings. They also have a lower percentage of women in the legislature and fewer mandates requiring insurance providers to cover minimum hospital stays after childbirth. A study was done on pro-life profiles and the attitudes of those who opposed abortion. In a further examination of these relationships, the researchers utilized the National Farmers Union ratings of U.S. senators on a scale from zero to one hundred to study the senators' support of legislation that helped families and their children—such as support of school lunch and milk programs. This rating was based upon the senators' voting records on fifteen different bills and was interpreted by this writer as a valid and reliable measure of family nurturance. It was found that the average Family Nurturance Score of senators who supported abortion rights of women and opposed capital punishment was ninety-six out of one hundred. The average family nurturance score of the senators who opposed abortion rights of women and supported capital punishment was forty-four out of one hundred—less than half of the family nurturance score of the pro-choice senators. It was concluded from the above data that the anti-abortion ideology did not reflect compassion and respect for human life but, rather, an ideology of authoritarian control over the personal lives of individuals that included violent means of human oppression. I and The American Society for Reproductive Medicine which represents fertility specialists in the United States and more than 100 other countries reject your position that abortion is murder. The president of the Washington D.C.-based American Society for Reproductive Medicine took a strong public stand, writing in its February bulletin that the idea life begins at conception is in the same league as "fake news" and "disinformation."
Because spending other people's money is the only way to show you care.
http://www.businessinsider.com/red-states-more-dependent-on-federal-government-2015-7

I feel like circumstances of fatal fetal abnormalities etc, are really being pushed forward to persuade the public to vote yes in the referendum, which will legalize abortion on demand for any reason up to 12 weeks. Mostly seeing videos of the repeal march makes me cringe and kind of sad too. Ripping and taking down every VOTE NO poster and animated or ultrasound images. Yelling, using foul and derogatory language against the opponents - mostly college students wearing a black repeal jumper. Yikes. So disheartening for the pro-life movement.
Of course that's being used to push it. Because it is somewhat understandable versus the reality that most abortions are for convenience. I have friends who have aborted for fatal abnormalities, like no brain, and that's one of the only instances I can see abortion being...well, still sad and tragic, but I guess less awful. Is it on demand up to 12 weeks or on demand til 40? Here in the US you can get 'em done at any time for any excuse. Same in the UK I believe, just use some loose mental health definition and off you go :(
I'm pretty sure it is on demand up to 12 weeks and up til birth for fetal abnormalities, as it is in the UK and most of Europe. That's really messed up how it is in the US, yikes. I was watching a video where a guy interviews people on the streets of Ireland and talks about the referendum. The people said thing like "Well, if the baby is dead, it's unfair for her to carry it." I was like woah nobody said anything about that though?! But that's the first thing that came into their minds when asked "What are you voting?" That's how much those cases are being pushed. It's like they don't realise how much more they're opening up the door to...
The European average is 12 And the UK is 24.
I'm pro choice but I feel like your interpretation of the goings-on is definitely coming from pro life sources. Nothing wrong with that, but for the sake of balance it's been a vicious campaign on both sides with many pro repealers like myself being faced with verbal and online harassment and there have been many instances of yes posters being removed and replaced with no posters. I can't wait until this referendum is done, whatever the result. The vitriol surrounding the debate from both sides has been really disheartening.
It would be a shame if there was no vitriol against legalising child murder.
That's certainly an opinion shared by many pro lifers, however many on either side and those who are undecided generally prefer a respectful debate without name-calling. This isn't a clear-cut moral debate and many have very deeply held beliefs so it's always best to respect each other as people and realize we're all going to have to live in the same country, go to the same colleges, shops, cinemas etc. after this referendum.
It's not name calling, it's fact. Do you think abortion simply asks the child to leave politely?
It's not name-calling, but it's not a way to have a respectful conversation or debate. We'll never have to look each other in the eye and will probably never even think about this interaction ever again, so it's not a big deal. But when it's a close friend or family member saying "you want to murder children/you're a murderer" it's hard to come back from that. I'm not here to debate abortion, I just wanted to give my perspective on the debate coming up to the referendum.
If your definition of respectful conversation requires the other person to lie, you're not in for an honest conversation at all. It should be.
Not to lie. But there are less aggressive ways to talk about this issue. I have had very rational and calm debates with pro-lifers in real life where neither of us felt we had to lie in order to make our points. I understand you don't see it this way, but I find it hard to believe you have nobody in your life who you care for that is pro choice. Perhaps you have no problem disowning those who disagree with you on this issue, that's your prerogative. That's not how I'd like my life to be after this referendum.
You'd prefer that I either outright lie and say abortion doesn't kill anyone or lie by omission, correct? Is it rational and calm to cry "aggression" when someone honestly states the facts? If you found out your family member or friend admired serial killers of children and expressed a desire to dismember their own baby, would you conceal the truth in order to spare their feelings?
You claim to "state the facts" but this isn't a black and white moral issue. That's why there's such a divisive debate in the first place. It's not a fact that an embryo or foetus is morally equivalent to a child or young baby. That's a moral position, not held by every person. You may believe this is the 'correct' moral position but that doesn't mean it's a fact. You clearly have very deeply held beliefs and I'm not here to try and sway you on this. I honestly don't care about that and clearly this wouldn't be the best place to find people who do agree with me. I just think that it's generally better when nobody comes out of the other side of a referendum with bridges burned and friendships ended. I have my own opinions about the pro life position in this referendum and they are based on a lots of reflection and research. I think you have to really try to actually understand the reasons why people believe what they believe and accept that while you disagree, you can't force people to adhere to your way of thinking. I mean really what I'm trying to say is that no matter how strong our personal beliefs are, there has to be room for understanding that this is a moral grey area. You have come to what you believe is the correct moral conclusion and I have come to what I believe is the correct moral conclusion and those are two very different conclusions. And many other people have come to many other different positions. There's a whole range of viewpoints on what is a very contentious issue. I don't think there is a 'right' answer, so it's best to just treat everyone with some decency and remember that we're all going to be showing up to work the morning after the referendum and moving on with our lives.
You claim to "state the facts" but this isn't a black and white moral issue. That's why there's such a divisive debate in the first place. It's not a fact that a Jew or homosexual is morally equivalent to a Nordic or normal heterosexual. That's a moral position, not held by every person. You may believe this is the 'correct' moral position but that doesn't mean it's a fact. You clearly have very deeply held beliefs and I'm not here to try and sway you on this. I honestly don't care about that and clearly this wouldn't be the best place to find people who do agree with me. I just think that it's generally better when nobody comes out of the other side of a Holocaust with bridges burned and friendships ended. I have my own opinions about the pro-life position in this Holocaust and they are based on a lots of reflection and research. I think you have to really try to actually understand the reasons why people believe what they believe and accept that while you disagree, you can't force people to adhere to your way of thinking. I mean really what I'm trying to say is that no matter how strong our personal beliefs are, there has to be room for understanding that this is a moral grey area. You have come to what you believe is the correct moral conclusion and I have come to what I believe is the correct moral conclusion and those are two very different conclusions. And many other people have come to many other different positions. There's a whole range of viewpoints on what is a very contentious issue. I don't think there is a 'right' answer, so it's best to just treat everyone with some decency and remember that we're all going to be showing up to work the morning after the Holocaust and moving on with our lives.

Thanks for your civility. I can understand fatal circumstances and such, but making abortion a socio-cultural norm is something else. Too many dismiss the pro-life side as being religious fundamentalism or misogynistic, but of course the extremists are the loudest as usual. We don't believe in harassing women! I just firmly believe that our liberation, as women, should not come from the destruction of our own offspring. The early feminists opposed abortion - they fought that men shall not treat us like their property, and now we want to treat our children as property to be disposed of when we see fit? The stronger should never have 'rights' to dominate the weak and vulnerable. Sad really. Anyway thanks for being respectful and have a good day.
I can understand where you're coming from. I also have concerns about making abortion a 'norm', though I guess they're kind of coming from a different perspective. I am concerned that having abortion widely available will mean the government are less motivated to help provide supports for women who want to carry their pregnancies to term; either financial support, perinatal hospices or whatever else. I'm pro choice but I think for it to be a choice, there has to be real and viable alternatives available. I suppose the reason the campaign has been focusing on hard cases is that the majority of Irish people would support legalising abortion for FFA's, rape and incest so I guess a lot of the yes campaign has been focusing on that - and the fact that if we want any change at all to our abortion laws we have to remove this amendment. I think this is fair but I also do think we really need to engage with peoples concerns about ""abortion on demand"" because they are real and we can't just dismiss them because they're inconvenient. Anyways that was kind of a tangent but overall I do think we could all benefit from not stereotyping and straw-manning the 'opposite side'. We're all individuals and while there's going to be fundamentalists it's helping no one to say "well, they're all like X and believe X so just don't listen to them".
The statement above is one I can get behind!
There's No posters up everywhere here very few have been torn down. I've seen a lot more Yes posters torn down or with graffiti on them.
This post was removed because you have a new account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.
Oh come on.


I get that she's counting her own heart, but why not her own fingers and toes? Ms. Tucci (the mother) wrote: Ms. Flanders (the author of the article) wrote: And, multiple times, writes: This is not a trivial medical-ethics scenario.  Ms. Tucci was at high risk of a pre- or peri-viable delivery of all five fetuses, with resulting catastrophic neonatal outcomes.  Remember that "viability" is fluid -- a quintuplet at 24 weeks doesn't have the same outcomes as a singleton or twin at 24 weeks.  She was also personally at higher risk in this pregnancy.  Besides the inevitability of needing a cesarean, her risks for DVT and preeclampsia would be increased. The author (and this subreddit) are changing "Ms. Tucci was offered a medically reasonable option in a complex and risky situation, and decided that it wasn't in keeping with her medical goals" into "Ms. Tucci stood strong against the evil doctors recommending baby-killing." Nobody's going to write an article about someone who declined selective reduction and had a previable delivery of all five at 21 weeks.
I thought about the toes and fingers thing too. Anyway, I don't agree with your outlook. The point is that they didn't just offer the option, they advised her to take it. That's a big difference. The former would be reasonable. The latter is ridden with a specific ideological attitude that should have no place in the medical field.
Maybe reread what I wrote?  The person who underwent the actual experience wrote that she was told she "could consider" selective reduction.  The author of the article (and, apparently, you) turned that into being advised to do it.
I see. I obviously misread. Apologies.
Oh wow!  Thank you.


I always get annoyed at these articles saying that the prolife movement should solely focus on lowering the number of abortions and stop trying to make it illegal. There is literally no other human rights movement that has worked this way -- not the civil rights movement, not women's suffrage, not the LGBT rights movement, etc. The civil rights movement wouldn't have had the strength it did if it only focused on lowering the number of lynchings and not changing laws. Same goes for the LGBT movement -- they didn't just focus on changing minds, they passed anti-discrimination laws and gay marriage. And people keep citing that article claiming that laws are associated with higher abortion rates, but even the Guttmacher study it's referencing doesn't make that claim. Abortion rates are declining in developed countries because Guttmacher includes Eastern Europe under "developed," and Eastern Europe has experienced major cultural and economic changes that are likely influencing the abortion rate along with greater contraception use. Then he cites Switzerland as a country with a low abortion rate that prolifers should emulate...but what about Ireland? They ban abortion (for now) and have a lower rate than Switzerland.
It's pretty easy for the winner to criticize the loser. Don't buy into it. The people have changed their mind about abortion over the years. That's not the fault of the pro-life movement.
Yeah, blame the people fighting abortion, not the people tearing apart babies.
This is about reflection within the Canadian pro-life movement. It is not about defending those who perform abortions.
I seriously disagree with almost everything in this article. The evidence used to prove their opinion is deeply flawed. In fact, I think it is actually the opposite. The prolife movement has been to passive in it's approach. We see what one political player who is not so afraid and focused on being hush hush can do. Tanya Granic Allen literally changed the course of the PC election because she did not hold back. Canadian prolifers are to passive and afraid to speak out. They are to worried about being politically correct and not stepping on toes. I think that's the real problem.

"[Supporters] see the legislation as a possible test case to overturn Roe vs. Wade, the 1973 U.S. Supreme Court decision that overturned state bans on abortion nationwide." One can only hope! Norma McCorvey would be overjoyed.
It's a big gamble. The legislation could be found unconstitutional, and the Supreme Court could even re-affirm Roe vs. Wade. But there is a chance... We can hope!
The district & circuit courts that cover Iowa are very Republican. Unless all the liberal judges on SCOTUS die in a car crash, this is pretty much certain to happen. The actual ideological makeup of it hasn't really changed for about a decade.
Vroom vroom /s in case someone really thinks I'm gonna kill supreme court justices
Ginsburg might die of a kale overdose or some shit in the next few years.
Being Republican doesn’t matter when you’re an inferior court to that of the Supreme Court.
Most cases never reach the SCOTUS. 99% of the time lower courts have the final say.
Yeah, if the lower courts uphold Supreme Court precedent. There’s a reason why Whole Woman’s Health was granted cert ; it was because the fifth circuit did not properly apply Casey.
Plenty of Conservative courts throw SCOTUS rulings out the window to support a conservative agenda.
[citation needed]
Judicial activism happens on both sides: http://harvardlpr.com/2015/04/23/1773/ (Conservative) courts up and down the country uphold restrictions on abortion that are (according to Roe V Wade) unconstitutional.


So much for the "pro-choice" narrative. What they're calling for is nothing less than lynching the son for the crimes of his father.
Yeah, "choice" as long as that choice is abortion.
She chose not to have an abortion. Some shitty people treated her awfully for making that choice. If she'd made the choice to have an abortion, some shitty people would have treated we awfully for making THAT choice. There and good and bad people on both sides.
The pro choice narrative is "this is the only choice you should be making," by a long shot. May not be you, but every woman I know who is pro choice is very pro abortion and very vocal about it. Until they decide their own baby is no longer a clump of cells but a life, in their eyes, but if they don't, then, abortion. It is the only viable choice to these people.
I would never make a women feel bad for having an abortion, and I think most pro-lifers feel the same. It's about love, not hate.
Sure doesn't seem that way if you're with 100 feet of an abortion clinic.
They didn't get the memo. We should make a point to remind everyone that we don't hate people.
Have you ever considered doing clinic escorting?
You might not. But people do all the time. I've had my life threatened for working in an office building that happened to contain a clinic that performs abortions. I've been called awful names while walking to McDonalds near my old apartment because it happened to be next to a planned parenthood. I can't imagine the things people would say if I'd actually gone in, regardless of what service I needed. I'm pro choice, and I'd never say something or even think something rude about someone's choice to have a child. Regardless of how that child came to be. I think most pro-choicers feel the same. It's about love for me too. Unfortunately the vocal minority often ruins it for everyone. If I had to guess at the numbers I'd guess that the number of pro choice people that would think something like that was OK are at LEAST as rare as the pro life people that think the death penalty makes sense for people that get abortions, or that I deserve to die for happening to be a young woman in the vicinity of where someone else gets one. There's some wackadoos out there man.
That's because these aren't pro-choice people.  A lot of them say things in their comments that clearly mark them as politically conservative.
So? There are plenty of pro-life liberals right here in this subreddit. I know lots of pro-abortion conservatives. I'm a centrist and very pro-life.
Read through the comments in situ and let me know if you think they're being written by people who would donate to Planned Parenthood.

This is really sad, and also shows that keeping abortion legal does nothing to keep women from getting "back-alley abortions." I like this line because its generally how I feel about making abortion illegal. If laws like it are already in place, we should just extend it to make all abortions illegal, but the women don't get prosecuted.
I think this case was more likely to be a miscarriage. Maybe mom is a young teenager or poor and uneducated, which could explain why the baby ended up in the seeage.


I can't stand the SPLC, it's lost so much credibility, I don't know how it's still around.
"We don't like the beliefs of organization X, therefore X is a hate group!"
It never had any credibility, except to those on the far left.
It has credibility on the center-left, too.
I give my AmazonSmile donations to Americans United for Life, which is still an option as of five hours ago.
The SPLC is an outfit of fakes, shakedown artists and general finks.

Pedos argue they can't change that about themselves. Does that mean you can't keep them from being schoolteachers? And regardless, "I want a cake from your bakery!!!!" is not an immutable trait. They don't want to take part in a ceremony. If that's non-optional, point me at the nearest gay leftist's bakery, I have some "Gays get AIDS" cakes that need baking, stat.

No it's not. Blah blah blah. We're here, we're tired of SJW queers, get used to it.
I am pro life and pro lgbtq there's a lot if us who are but as long as you conservatives hate everyone who doesnt follow your dogma to a T you'll never make any gains or have any dialogue
First off, no, there's not a lot of you. You're a minority of a minority. There's probably more people at a Herman's Head fan convention. But as far as being 'pro lgbtq' - so am I. Here's the difference. I want LGBT people to live safely, free from harm. This does not mean activists get to bully, attack, sue and suppress everyone who disagrees with them. I don't need people to follow my dogma to a T. You do. And I don't need dialogue with everyone. There's too much damn dialogue anyway, and you see fit to cut it off with anyone who so much as doesn't want to bake a cake for your fake wedding.
The problem here is your equating not wanting to bake a cake for you with hating you, when that's obviously a false equation.
https://www.insidetucsonbusiness.com/news/when-is-refusing-service-legal-and-when-is-it-discrimination/article_305de452-a55b-11e3-8245-001a4bcf887a.html And yes you are protected to have equal service.
Yeah I think this may be about the general controversy surrounding Alliance Defending Freedom more so than their pro life beliefs. If you want to support pro life causes via Amazon Smiles there are other options such as Catholic Pro Life Committee, Students for Life, March for Life, Texas Right To Life, and more. Additionally, I believe there are numerous CPCs that use Amazon Smile for donations.
why am i not surprised

How the hell did you jump to that conclusion? The group supports not murdering babies...

OK. I don't believe anything the covert terrorist organization known as the SPLC says. But I still don't see how that means they want to get rid of all the gays.
Words do have meanings you know, and this phrase doesn't mean "anyone I disagree with".  You can think they're wrong, but saying things like this kills any credibility you'd have in explaining why.
They publicly call out any company, group of people, or person they disagree with, which causes people to get angry and do stupid things. Plus, they cover for actual terrorist organizations like ANTFI, so yeah, they're a covert terrorist organization.
Yes, which is not the definition of "terrorist".  I'd say I'm not sure why you needed to be told that twice, but I am:  because you prefer vitriol and ranting to actually being correct. This sentence means nothing at all.  They don't "cover" for terrorist groups...they don't claim to be about "terrorists" in the first place.  They don't list ISIS or Al Qaeda either, so of course someone with difficulty thinking might say they're "pro-terrorist" by that same reasoning there, but that would just make that person look like a fool.  They're a listing for specific things, not "all bad things ever".  They've never defended antifa, so what you're doing is called lying.
They actively lobby and help write legislation to discriminate against lgbt. They're not buying removed for being pro life they're being removed for discrimination
The lobby for religious rights. There's a difference.
There's no need to distinguish Religious Liberty. It's just Liberty. People (who don't work for the government) have a right to discriminate against me even if I think their reason is stupid. That's the price of freedom, sometimes I won't like how other people use theirs.
We used too have people lobby for the religious right to discriminate against black purple or lobby for the religious freedom to reject women from working. It wasn't right then and it isn't right now. There's no difference then and none now. Your bigotry is not a right
You can think that all you want, but that's not what they're doing, because that's illegal.
It is tho. They even talk about it on their site.
Oh yeah? Got a link?
Isn't that a right for pretty much every other religion, though?

There's no need to distinguish Religious Liberty. It's just Liberty. People (who don't work for the government) have a right to discriminate against me even if I think their reason is stupid. That's the price of freedom, sometimes I won't like how other people use theirs.
I mean, they literally don't have the right to discriminate against whoever they want.  That's what the civil rights legislation enacted.
Not the legal right you're correct, but I'm talking more generally. Like, why can the state threaten to financially ruin me or put me in a cage because I won't serve a particular person with my own labor. Highly immoral (a bit violent). It also isn't a "right" to make some one do something for you, that's just tyranny.
Isn't Amazon doing the same thing?
The "LBGTQRSTUVWYZ" has grown to an unmanageable and undefinable group of people. Likely this has do with the adoption alternatives and this charity likely doesn't promote adoption options for LGBT couples which isn't discrimination. They probably treat them the same as a single person attempting to adopt. There isn't significant evidence to support same sex or alternative sex households offer healthy environments. There have been studies that say otherwise but they are very recent and short studies so I it's pretty ridiculous to think that aren't some groups that are little more hesitant to accept the evidence presented. It's not like there aren't agencies and options for LGBT couples, but for the SPLC to be actively trying to shut down groups who are advocating for the pre-born is not the right answer. Likely the SPLC is using every tool possible to forward their ideology.
Why is this not discrimination? Ok, so we have babies that are forced to be born because of the use of every tool imaginable being used by the ADF to shut down abortions throughout the country.  Next, we have to find a home for these unwanted babies. Ok, let's look for people to adopt.  Now, welfare of the baby be damned, we're only going to adopt out to Straight couples.  No gays allowed.  So, in effect, they're not only trying to shutdown abortions to gay people, but they're also not REALLY giving two shits about the welfare of a baby with no parents, because if they did, they wouldn't care what the dynamic of the relationship was, because I"ll GUARANTEE you, the baby doesn't give a crap if he has two moms, two dads, one mom or one dad.....they want to be loved.  And if this group is actively trying to stop a baby from being loved, then YES, they deserve to be shunned by society.
I would rather kids be adopted into any family than not, I'm just trying to offer an explanation. The SPLC doesn't care about what's good for babies, they care about imposing their ideology. They aren't listing that organization because it's the right thing to do, they are doing to exercise their power and impose their ideology.
Believe what you want, I guess.  My only question is, why aren't ALL pro-life groups on there?  I'd imagine they generally all want the same thing, so why is one group listed but others aren't?  Maybe, just maybe, they're not as innocent and good as you want them to be?
Perhaps but judging by SPLC massive mistakes listing people as terrorists or hate groups has me thinking otherwise.
You're referring to the ONE example right?  Where they listed Ben Carson as a terrorist or something? Just saying, there's a BIG difference between a company making one mistake and a company making MASSIVE mistakes listing people (plural) as such.  So, before you think otherwise, maybe step back and take a closer look. Also, how many other SPLC type groups are out there, looking out for Americans' interest?  honest question
They have a buddy of Sam Harris' listed as a muslim extremist and anti-muslim extremist, he sued and won one of the instances and had it removed, the other one is still listed. Stefan Molyneux is listed as a white nationalist or something or other, Ben Shapiro was on there, others I can't recall off the top of my head but they have proven to be douchebags that align with the ideological left.
So, I'm an American studying abroad in Northern Ireland, and I decided to go down to Dublin for a couple days. I got here this morning and was immediately greeted by posters about the abortion repeal vote plastered everywhere. I tried to not let it distract me as I went sightseeing, but it kept nagging at the back of my head. Then, at the end of the day as I was riding the bus to my Airbnb, it really hit me: As a man, it is my duty to protect my future wife and future children from the wickedness of the world that seeks to destroy the sacredness of life, love, and marriage. This is what it means to be a man, and this is what it means to be pro-life.Seeing all these women walking around with repeal shirts and buttons just about made me wanna puke. If Ireland does indeed make abortion legal, it will be an dark blotch on her history. Please friends, we must pray for Ireland, those effected by this evil, and most of all: for the family itself. God bless us all.
I am not religious, but I too hope the 8th is not repealed as it would mean many more people dying.
Something we can all agree on. Your statement proves that seculars and religious folks can agree on this. If I'm not mistaken, I believe the Late Christopher Hitchens was pro-life.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B8HhTKzmvas It is a bit annoying in the video that the interviewer in glasses keeps thinking that Hitchens is for abortion even though Hitchens clearly says things like "I don't say I have a moral right to terminate a pregnancy" , "as a humanist i beileve in the concept of unborn child and is undeniable confirmed by embryology" , "it can not only be the responsibility of the mother for this is a moral and ethical question"
Ireland is our go to example for a beautiful first world country that is still free from abortion. If the 8th Ammendment gets repealed the hopes of overturning abortion laws in other countries like the UK or US will get even less likely. With Soros and his cronies pouring money into the "Yes" campaign it's an uphill battle :(
At least in America the pro-life movement is gaining steam.
I feel like the debate is more open in America, yes. In the UK everyone seems to accept it will never change whichever side they fall on. We have basically one MP that's openly against it as opposed to the majority of a whole US party.
Well then again you also have to realize that Europe, and particularly Ireland have been in a state of moral decay for many years. It went from being arguably the most Catholic country in the world when it won it's independence in the 20's, to being a bastion of leftism. The fact that Ireland has always been very warm to Marxism doesn't help. Once they legalized gay marriage, it was only a matter of time before they tried to legalize abortion.
Liberal is a more correct term. There are many socialist/communist parties across the world that reject abortion & gay 'marriage'.
Really? Can you cite that? I never knew that.
Communist party in Greece consistently opposed civil partnerships and said only heterosexual families are desirable: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Communist_Party_of_Greece#Social_policy The Communist Party in Russia unanimously supported their gay propaganda law and actually they wanted it to go further (but Putin said no basically). The Social Democrats in Romania are the main force pushing for a constitutional amendment to ban gay 'marriage' and they seem to oppose abortion too. And it's the right wing party that is liberal. And there are probably even more such examples.
Well I'm vehemently anti-communist, but it's nice to know that some of them have some sense.
Absolutely agree. I live in Dublin and I know what its like, it's absolutely horrible how popular killing babies is. It's great to hear that you feel the responsibility to defend innocent lives. Anyone who is living in Ireland reading this and who are interested in street leaflet handing outs or interested in door-to-door canvassing you can go to loveboth.ie to sign up. The door-to-door canvasing group i'm with is very good and i assume most groups run the same way. You always go in pairs so if your mind goes blank/you freeze/panic the other person can interject. You get a help booklet to help with what to say. Also during the first night you don't have to do any of the talking because you get paired up with an experienced speaker. If anyone is hesitant about the canvassing and would like to know more you can ask.
Do you have any serious expectation that Ireland won't vote to repeal the 8th?
Sadly, to me it SEEMS like the repeal side will win. However if someone told me in 2015 that Donald Trump would become president  there is no way I would have beileved them so I'm not infallible. The media is pushing hard for the 8th to be repealed and demonizing pro-lifers but they did the exact same with trump and he still won. Also another thing to note is that i'm a college student so i would meet a disproportionate amout of pro-repealers. Another reason I'm worried is that pro-aborts keep taking down the vote no posters. Also there is george soros and amnestity ireland that are putting a lot of money into the vote yes side. In ireland (don't know if youre irish so you might already know this) there is a government run news channel called rte news and they are very biased towards the abortion side. Something that gives me hope is that when I was doing the canvassing there a significant of pro-lifers out there. Another thing that gives me hope is this article:http://www.catholicherald.co.uk/issues/february-9th-2018/against-all-odds-pro-lifers-could-still-win-irelands-referendum/ The main thing I got from this article is that during the gay marriage refendum the polls started off where there was a 50 percent gap between the pro and the anti, but at the actual gap in the end was 24. Regarding this referendum however the gap is starting at 24 percent. Also there's a lot more people who are against abortion that are against gay marriage (such as myself.)
:( Once its legal, its hard to go back, if ever.
Abortion is much harder to argue for than gay 'marriage'. Like I can actually understand the justifications for the latter, abortion not so much.
The strategy that's worked in the past for pro-choicers is tethering it directly to women's rights. While it's flimsy if you really break down that reasoning, it's a punchy and easy way to get people on the pro-choice side...
Exactly! It's very easy to be for (or at least ok with) gay marriage but with abortion it's an entirely different thing because you are killing someone. It's very hard to dress up abortion as a "loving" thing.
Amen. We need to pray for the whole world.

It’s crazy how shit like this was ever legal in the first place 😔
Not a chance in hell this passes. Delaware is a blue state which has shown a strong support for abortion.




This could change the EU. This is huge!
Hardly. Ireland has had the 8th amendment for all the time it's been in the EU and Malta also bans abortion in all cases.
Yes but it will be a rejection of the abortionist order just at the zenith of their supposed power.
The EU hasn't taken a position on abortion laws to my knowledge. That's for the member states to decide (if it wasn't then countries like Ireland, Poland and Malta would already have abortion on demand).

The fact this even has to be pointed out is insane...
Yeah, that whole 'being pro-life means more than being against abortion!' thing is working out as expected. Here's the problem: if "being pro-life" gets its definition expanded to "being in favor of anything which can arguably be construed as saving lives!", then the 'abortion is pro-life' line is vastly harder to criticize. But leftists have been pushing this for ages, and they've made inroads. If they're not cut off the knees now, I can give you the predominant "pro-life" slogan we're going to hear in 5-10 years: "Abortion should be safe, legal and rare!"
Yep. The same thing that happens to conservatism in general. Its like a 90 lb woman walking a poorly trained 70 lb mastiff. Grasping at the leash but really just following the dog.
Well, it does. I think it’s perfectly fair to include euthanasia and infanticide as pro-life issues, too. But certainly wrong to expand it to things that aren’t directly killing people.
Infanticide? Sure, for obvious reasons. Euthanasia? I could see it, because it's a grim calculation with an obvious direct moral overlap. But we're hitting the point where environmentalism, immigration, gun control, welfare spending, etc are all 'pro-life issues'. It's an intentional obfuscation. Partly by people who want to hijack the pro-life movement for other causes. Partly by people who want to sabotage it outright. And if that's the goal, alright: take a good, hard look at the initial results. 'Anything that helps save or improve lives' is pro-life. Abortionists insist (right or wrong) that abortion is a net or individual lifesaver. Ergo, abortion is pro-life.
I am pro life but am sympathetic to issues around euthanasia / death with dignity. I came to be pro life by way of veganism. Not all of us are fully into the Consistent Life Ethic. What we all have in common is being against abortion. Let’s not splinter ourselves.
Well, we should indeed care about individuals after they are born.  From conception (really fertilization) to natural death. Once we're there, her argument falls on its face.
It's not about that. If every pro-lifer on the planet came out and said "we want to support programs that help children and their families after they are born!!" the pro-choicers would simply shift to "fine well then you just want to control women's bodies!!!" They don't actually believe either argument, they just instinctively think "pro-life is bad, and I need to find a way to criticize them. " It just happened to me in r/politics Them: All prolifers are hypocrites and don't care about children and take away all their programs meh!!! Me: well I am pro-life and I believe in supporting everyone who needs it, including children after they have been born. I even want universal healthcare Them: well then I'm clearly not talking about you duh why did you even comment you should get banned for being off topic, also you're a unicorn and 99% of prolifers hate women and you have internalized misogyny even though you're not religious, it's from those fundamentalist Christians, go away and stop making sense!! Not all exact wording, obviously, but I captured the essence of it. So their argument doesn't fall on it's face because they just switch arguments at will.
Yeah, I'll agree with you.  It's about moving the goalposts to win debate points, not substantive discussion.
Exactly. They don't even realize how dishonest it is. I want to know why they think my argument is wrong, not how they can win.
As a pro-life liberal..... I don't agree with your comment AT ALL.  Many women truly don't want to get abortions personally, but they feel they MUST because we do not have the social programs in place to allow them to feel like they have the option of raising their own child successfully. Like FREE Nationalized daycare for all.  Not just for work.  For what ever reason (with in limits).  If we had that option, how many young women, might think about keeping their unintended pregnancies? Or, if a woman is living in extreme poverty and adding that $12 to her welfare money and $100 for her food stamp case isn't enough?  What if she thinks that a new baby will just stretch her limited resources for the kids she already has?????? The pro-life movement would have more of a leg to stand on with a LOT more people if "they" as a group, gave more of a shit about babies, and children and families after the babies are out of the womb.
Idk what you disagree with lol I agree with you. I was talking about people who generalize about prolifers being hypocrites, and when told that we arent, they move the goalposts to find something else to nitpick. The point is that their problem isn't that we don't support born people (we do), their problem is that we are pro-life and they hate that.
No, you really aren't agreeing with me at all.  Take my mother for example.  She is very pro-choice liberal.  She hates prolifers and Trumpets because in general, they are very conservative and very much against social programs.    Time after time, people on this very sub have a very negative attitude about helping anyone after they are born. My mother was a Social Worker for 35 years until she retired.  She has seen the suffering of poverty and unwanted children.  She has seen the suffering mainly brought on by the Republican Party. She isn't about moving goal posts.  She is about just making sure all these kids "we" want born, aren't born just to suffer. Indeed it is actually YOU that is moving the goal post.  All I have are pro-choice friends and while some just support abortion for any reason, others very much do not. Not YOU, but many many many many (even religious) pro-life people are huge hypocrites and they do not have any interest in social programs after the child is out of the womb.
I still don't disagree with you though. I get all that. Pro-choicers aren't going to stop hating us just because we can prove we want better conditions and resources for pregnant woman and their children. They will just find something else to accuse us of. The problem with pro-lifers you describe obviously exists, but that isn't the actual reason pro-choicers attack us. It's just an easy target.
Women I know who have had abortions just don't want a baby to cramp their style. The trope of how it ruins your life. Nothing to do with social safety nets or lack of it. Yes, we do care about babies out of the womb. It's why we donate money to charities to help these women. Or our time. It shouldn't be up to the taxpayer to subsidize people's lives. It is not the government's responsibility, but again, it is a divide between the purpose of government and what liberals vs conservatives think about the purpose of it. Abortion is wrong and should be wrong because, well, we know it's murder and we need to change the conversation about it as some acceptable option that's no more than pulling a scab off a wound.
There are certainly both types out there.  There are poor people who don't feel that they could raise a child, and there are women I know personally who have plenty of resources to raise a child, even already have children, but just don't want another one for reasons that are frankly petty and actually have little to do with actually being pregnant or caring for a child. And I think it is fine for women to have preferences and take reasonable actions to not have a child if they're not looking to have another one (or a first one).  My wife and I don't have any children and we've been married for years and years.  I would never want someone to have to just accept that it is completely roulette, because it isn't. The real problem is only when you're already got the child, and now you want to kill it.  That's not justice for that person.
Yes, my kid was an accident. But birth control failure happens. I was married, but even if I wasn't, I wouldn't have killed him. What I cannot understand are women who are mothers now who have had abortions previously or do after they already have, well, the children they want to keep (ugh)... How can you justify that... It is a life because you want it?!
And you are part of the problem.  100% if a Government says you must have your baby then that Govt needs to be responsible for the babies from birth to grave. I have a Bachelor's in Social Work.  9/10 Private charities are horrible, horrible horrible.  The good thing about Governement Social programs is that they have no MORAL qualifications on who gets services and who doesn't.  People don't have to pray or read the bible to get food or healthcare.  It's all about a fair and basically blind set of guidelines that tells someone of they qualify or not. Private Agencies can DISCRIMINATE all they want and it's 100% legal.  That's why I will never vote for a Republican.  Ever.
Morals and murder being wrong say you shouldn’t kill your baby not the government. But you and I have a different view of the government and it’s function and purpose. We can agree that abortion is wrong. I’ll never vote Democrat because they love killing babies, under the guise of feminism and women’s rights. As a woman I find that disgusting. Hell if we had socialized medicine I’d be dead because nobody would want to waste govt money on a supremely premature baby doctors said had no chance of survival. I left the GOP over Trump so I don’t know what I am but I’d rather support a party that condemns murdering innocent babies instead of celebrates it as a fundamental human right.




I'm always conflicted with articles like this, because I'm curious what they say, but I don't want to give them hits, because it'll spawn more articles like this, etc etc.

To put it simply, I am scared.
Is it sinful to be pessimistic? I don’t have much faith in this
It won't be an overwhelming Yes vote. But they definately will win unless something huge happens.
Hey, Drumpistani, just a quick heads-up:definately is actually spelled definitely. You can remember it by -ite- not –ate-.Have a nice day! The parent commenter can reply with 'delete' to delete this comment.
[removed]

I'm torn over this story. First off, it's amazing and awesome and incredible and wonderful that this mother was so determined to save her baby, and that she succeeded so well. Beyond that, though, my first impression was how sad it was for the doctors just to throw up their hands and say, "better kill it now since it's probably gonna die anyway." She was already staying at the hospital; why would you advise actively killing the child rather than simply monitoring the situation and working to keep him alive? Whatever happened to the Hippocratic Oath, "First do no harm"? This goes beyond being "pro-choice"; this is a team of doctors advising that a patient be actively killed rather than trying to heal them like they're supposed to do. Secondly, in spite of the doctors' horrible and misguided advice, I'm not a big fan of how much the article seemed to praise her for taking to Facebook for medical advice. Maybe drinking a crapton of water saved the baby, and it certainly makes for a good story, but the professor quoted at the end of the article makes a valid point: "There is no evidence to suggest that drinking large amounts of water will reduce risk to the unborn baby." I just don't like the idea of people taking to Facebook for medical advice based on anecdotal evidence and collective ignorance. Maybe the Facebook group actually helped her find the advice from a more reputable source, but the article makes it sound like she made a life-or-death medical decision based on suggestions from a few internet strangers. I get why the doctors didn't advise this strategy, and I do give them a point for not forbidding the mother from trying it (they did dutifully advise her about the possibility of infection). I don't know how the medical system works in her country, but it wouldn't have surprised me if they had refused her care altogether for failing to comply with their (awful) advice.
While I agree it's distressing that she seems to have taken medical advice from Facebook, it's not like she had another choice.  The doctors weren't willing to do anything at all but kill the baby, so what was she to do?
Yeah, desperate times call for desperate desperateness. I just wish the article didn't act like the only options are "obey your doctor's misguided advice" and "do whatever Facebook says."
Thanks for saying this.  A very small fraction of previable PPROM cases may reseal; this is generally seen more in iatrogenic PPROM from amniocentesis or other procedures. With my previable PPROM cases, I offer induction, D&E, or expectant management (doing nothing).  I think it's vital in counseling to always discuss what will likely happen if one does nothing.  In this case, the prognosis was very poor.  I've had patients with very desired pregnancies trying to lie as still as they can, chugging back water, peeing in a bedpan to avoid getting up and having more amniotic fluid fall out, and requesting each day for us to check again on an ultrasound if some fluid has built up.  They've all gone on to deliver before viability, and in the meantime they're at risk of developing chorioamnionitis, or getting DVTs from prolonged bedrest in pregnancy. The prognosis is poor even if they reach "viability," because of the limits of fetal lung maturity with limited fluid. Anyway, point is: it's important to emphasize with patients that they have a choice.  Especially with these patients with desired pregnancies, I don't want to do a procedure that they will regret later.  If this woman's doctors didn't include that in their counseling, that's on them. However, I kind of suspect they did include it, and the story we're getting is just one selectively-remembered side.  I've seen a lot of medical stories change as people retell it months or years later.
This is a theme I've been noticing over the last several days, where people post these stories with very limited, one-sided (usually lay-person's) information and assume everything is true. And it seems like in many of these cases, you can see where the patient felt like they were being told it was hopeless and there's no point yadayada (or in other cases I've seen: they said my son was brain dead but then he made a full recovery!). But in reality what they were told may be different than what they're repeating to the media.
Wow. Her poor urethra. It must have become so irritated (a real thing).
i just think things like this prove how strong willed those little ones are, even from such an early age! go momma!!!
this story sounds like bullshit. First of all, if someone goes into labor early or their waters break, the standard medical advice is to try to stop labor with medications and then put the mom on bed rest in the hospital and pump up the mom and baby with steroids to help develop their lungs. If it is too early, then the doctors will allow what happens to happen naturally; the woman will most likely deliver a very premature or stillborn baby. I just don't think that doctors would advise someone in this case to terminate their pregnancy. To be blunt, if your water breaks that early, the pregnancy generally "terminates" itself. Secondly, I don't think drinking a shit ton of water will save a baby if the water breaks. If this was the case, then there would be a protocol to give women who go into premature labor tons of IV fluids, and there's not. I am as pro-life as they come, but we should also post factual info and realize that unintentional pregnancy loss (due to miscarriage or premature labor) is not the same thing as intentional abortion, and is rarely, if ever, the woman's (or anyone else's) fault, and can not be prevented. Edit: implying that pregnancy loss is preventable makes women who have suffered a loss feel guilty and bad; and it's just not factually correct to say that miscarriages are preventable. There is no medical evidence that they are.
Hope she had some salt with that water...
I don't know. After reading the article, this all sounds highly speculative. The mother believes that drinking water helped, but she got that advice from a random Facebook group, and the expert that they asked said there was no evidence that this sort of thing actually helps. I'm glad that the baby survived, and if they really did present abortion as the only option, that's obviously bad, but this whole story has that fishy "alternative medicine"/"old wives' tale" vibe about it.



He didn't save a fetus from abortion (that's what /r/prolife is, right?) he saved a child from early death. Does that make every doctor and fireman prolife? Legitimate question.
Prolife isn’t just about abortion. It’s about the culture of death that is the ultimate cause of abortion. So, something like this, or like the Alfie Evans case is closely related, because it’s about our culture saying that these people (usually infants or the disabled) are too expensive, burdensome, suffering too much, etc. to keep living.
Thanks for the insight :)
For me, this is just encouragement that we have made great strides in making our most vulnerable human beings viable as independent life.
To me... abortion is bringing a child to an early death.
that's exactly what it is.
Good question.  Saving a fetus from abortion is saving a child from early death.  This doctor heroically persisted to save this child.
In this case often doctors would leave the baby to die. That was what was recommended when I was born. Of course, my parents would have had none of it, but some doctors recommended they just do nothing because if I did survive, I'd be a vegetable. Obviously they were very wrong. I was only a few ounces larger than this baby. Many hospitals still would pull that trigger and not treat if the baby is born at 24 weeks or less. I was born at 26-27 weeks in the 80s and I believe the cut off then was 28+ weeks.

No. I’ve already seen people say bodily autonomy covers not only the right to have a baby removed, but the right to choose which medical procedure you want to get that done. Some have also said the baby is her property so she gets to decide if it dies. Now that artificial wombs might be a possibility someday, they’re changing the goal posts. It’s no longer about a woman’s body. It’s the right to also avoid having a child you don’t want. One woman even said something like, “Would women have to pay child support then? That’s not fair, because she didn’t want the baby.” Apparently the fact that men go through that very issue every day doesn’t matter. It only matters when it’s women. They’ll start shifting even more from “her body, her choice” when it’s possible to remove the baby without killing it because they’re determined that they should have the option to avoid a child they don’t want. Of course, they’ll never care when it’s men.
No. People say that but, no, it won't. For some it might be about pregnancy. For others, they don't want a child, and they don't want their child with someone else. There's also the group of people who don't want anyone to know they got pregnant. Teens would still have a reason to abort. There will still be a demand. I don't ever believe pro-choicers when they say "maybe if there was a way to transfer them and grow them outside the womb.."
You're right. Many are in favor of partial birth abortions, in which case one more contraction (about 15 seconds) would expel the baby who could then be placed for adoption or taken to the safe haven area of the hospital. They don't want the baby to exist. The argument is usually like "it would be too hard on the mother to know her baby was out there and it's too emotionally complicated so just let them kill it to spare her those feelings" The death is specifically what many of them ultimately want
Exactly. If it was about being pregnant, late-term abortion wouldn't exist considering pregnancy is basically over and you have to give birth either way. I think I've heard people say this almost word for word, which is sad.
They possibly might. But at the same time they could create further ethical issues. But that’s the nature of scientific advancement in relation to ethics.
Nope. Abortion is about making sure you don't reproduce, and that requires killing the child. As /u/lfpod said, they don't want their offspring existing in the world because it gives them a sense of responsibility over that child that they simply don't want.
I would hope so, however some people think they deserve the right to decide the value and therefore the continuation of someone else's existence.

He won’t even comment about pro-life laws he supports or opposes.  Anyone can say this, but...I’m skeptical.
Is he "personally pro-life", but "won't push his beliefs on others" which is effectively pro-choice? Or is he "pro-life," but a Democrat first?
I just found him in a search for pro-life Democrats and saw he hadn't been mentioned here; I don't care enough about out-of-state races to research further. He's pro-life enough to be getting bashed on Reddit, and even if he's wishy-washy, pushing the Democratic Party to the side of life won't happen all at once.
I agree, and I don't much care about out of state races either. It will be very important to get the right kind of pro-life Democrat in there.  The wishy washy ones that just knuckle under to the national establishment on abortion are not the ones we need in that party.  The ones who are strongly pro-life will be what is needed to really get that party back in contention.
Well, it's the primary. Democrats need to see that taking a pro-life stance isn't political suicide before we'll start seeing hardcore pro-lifers in the party.
Bill O'Neil got 3% of the primary vote. Abortion is king in the Democrat party and has been for at least 10 years now.
That's why I posted here, to encourage Ohioans to vote for him.
It's flat out never going to happen. Even in states like Alabama and North Dakota the Democrat politicians are pro abortion. All pro life laws and movement comes solely from the GOP now. (and no, Joe Manchin and Donnelly AREN'T Pro Life).
So your evidence that it'll never happen is that it hasn't happened yet?
Since 2010 pro lifers have been wiped out of the Democrat party. And Senators like Joe Manchin and Joe Donnelly (both held up as pro lifers in the party) vote with Planned Parenthood 60%+ the time.
You're still just arguing that it'll never happen because it hasn't happened yet. You might as well argue that abortion will never be banned because it was legalized on demand.
I'm saying that based on clearly observable trends (Pro Life Democrats being already marginalized and hated in their party, the party platform and senior leaders being strongly and unanimously pro abortion, the abortion industry's strong support for the party, etc). Even in deeply conservative states (Alabama, North Dakota, Montana, etc). Democrats run on an apologetically pro abortion platform.


Don't you mean conceived?
Sad to say, but from what I have heard of Trump I don’t think this will happen.
Pro choicers (all Dems + Lisa Murkowski and Susan Collins) are the majority in Senate.
I don't hate vegetarians, in fact I think what they are doing is good and I myself have tried to become vegetarian. However I absolutely hate it when some vegetarians stand idly by when it comes to abortion, or even worse promote abortion.One of my college roomates is vegan but is adamantly "pro-choice"P.s I hate the phrase pro-choice. People say "i don't like abortion, but i'm for a woman to choose" Basically you could apply this to any human right violation to justify it. Such a cop out.
So basically my mom. She doesn't eat meat because she hates thinking about animals hurting, and then consuming them. But when asked about abortion, she says that its fine because she doesn't think babies have a soul until they are born and prior to that they are just an empty vessel. Also something about reincarnation. Frustrates me to NO END. Also yes, it pains me to say pro-choice because I've met more people who think abortion is great than I have met people who think its just a woman's choice.
I usually say "abortion apologist" or "abortion supporter."
I get the annoyance, but at the same time how hypocritical is it if they are equally ok with aborting non-human animals?
Yeah, I know quite a few vegetarians who are totally fine with eating fertilized chicken eggs that would have eventually hatched if kept under a chicken or incubator. That being said, I don't think most people even realize the difference between a fertilized and non-fertilized chicken egg.
Well that's just sad.
Consistent Life Ethic + veganism, here. Why do we kill living, feeling beings? There's no need for it. Cows aren't going to kill my family, so why would I kill theirs?
Yes great point. By the way you said "cows are going to kill my family", i assume you meant to say "aren't" , unless theres a bunch of angry cows waiting outside your home lol.
Thanks!
That's a lovely way to put it. I wish people understood that their freedom to act how they want isn't free reign to inflict pain and suffering onto other living creatures! Don't we look down on people who use their power, influence, or physical superiority to harm others? Abortion should be no different.
It's called food chain.
First off, if your response consists entirely of "it's called [x]", what you are saying is just a smug waste of time. Secondly, what are you trying to prove here?
You asked why do we kill living, feeling beings. Well cows don't eat meat, do they? Omnivores, such as humans, do. Simple things. Is there no need for that? Good luck persuading nomadic saami reindeer herders. Do not generalize.
Being omnivorous is a decision. Humans are the only species who choose their diet, so just appealing to "this is what happens" is on the one hand obvious and pointless (I know that humans eat meat—that's the problem) and on the other a logical fallacy of confusing what is with what should be. Since literally 99.99999% of the human population don't choose to live in the Arctic circle where there is no vegetation due to permafrost... My point was that humans don't have to resort to killing other animals for nutrition, so they only do it for amusement and that is repugnant and cruel. Sure, someone in the world is probably stuck on a deserted island and needs to kill a fish or bird or else he'll starve. For everyone else, there's no reason to do it.
I love how you identified your own logical fallacy as it is you who suggests what ought to be. The mere fact (some humans eat meat in our case) cannot be logical fallacy. Saami nomads is only one example, it also applies to high-elevation areas,  deserts, semi-deserts... Not everyone lives in a developed area where you can get all the food you want. You also kill innocent animals like ants and spiders every time you walk down the street, how can you live with that?
It's not my fallacy. The fallacy is saying that things ought to be how they are. That is what you did: since humans do eat meat, therefore they should. Saying what should happen is not fallacious and I have no idea where you even got that nonsense. Sure, so we've moved from 99.9999% of the population to 99.997%. The fact that human life can barely be sustained in these places is actually a pretty good argument for why humans shouldn't live there but either way, the fact that you've moved somewhere that is inhospitable to life doesn't justify you killing something. There's no reason to compound that problem.
Where exactly I said things ought to be how they are? I just stated how things are and why. I don't know how things ought to be, but I know I don't want to force what other people should eat and certainly not where they should live. If animals lead good life and are killed swiftly, or painlessly, I don't have a huge moral problem with that. In the wild, animals brutally kill each other all the time, if we know any animal suffering is inherently wrong, shouldn't we interfere??
I know that humans eat meat... Did you think you were informing me of something new? If you don't know how things ought to be, then why are you saying anything to me...? You don't want to interfere with Laplanders eating reindeer (which you were never in any danger of doing) but you want to insert yourself in this conversation. Why? In the wild, other animals rape animals all the time. How does this justify us doing it...? Should we ease other animals' suffering? Of course. But there are finite resources and since humans are not obligate carnivores (like, e.g. lions), then step one is do no harm: don't actively cause more suffering.
If you don't want to hear obvious don't  ask questions you know answer to. And yes I do know cows are not going to kill my family but thank you for reminding me. At least I admit that. You obviously want to interfere with Laplanders eating reindeer (which you were never in any danger of doing)... and never will be... By the way how did you come to that very precise number 99.9997%, can I have a source? Or you just made it up to support your view? If so it's worse than fallacy, it's outraight lie. If I say we should let wild animals alone it's a fallacy according to you. I can only add there is something very twisted in your logic...

I don't think "I feel like eating bacon" is a good reason to kill a pig, since there are plenty of other things available to eat. If that pig were living inside a non-consenting human, I would 100% be in favour of killing it. My partner has been veggie since the age of 7 and has a pig heart valve because that was a better option for his health than a mechanical one. Where killing an animal protects human health we support it. But the majority of people can live healthily not eating meat, or at least eating a lot, lot less than they currently do. I'm also not particularly interested in banning meat consumption, although I do hope it will reduce as people make more ethical choices.
Aren't you that person who thinks killing another human being is fine as long as it doesn't suffer, is fine?
In response to your PS, I agree that is the worst! I am on r/babybumps and someone told me "pro choice doesn't necessarily mean pro abortion".....
I'm ashamed to say I used to be one of those people.
Oh wow. I am surprised lately at how much times I hear that someone use to be pro-choice but is now pro-life. It gives me hope that the pro-life movement will eventually be big enough to guarentee the protection of the unborn.
Well, to be fair, some people are vegetarians for health reasons, not for moral reasons.  (But you're right - if you are a vegetarian because you think it's immoral to kill animals for food, then you should probably not be okay with killing people for convenience.)
Some, yes, but those vegetarians aren't typically the ones that have to let everyone know they're vegetarians.


It doesn't end "potential" human life, it ends human life. Sperm is a body part, while a zygote/fetus is an individual human life. So good news--you're free to jerk it into a fire all you'd like!
If you DNA test your sperm it'll show your DNA, because they're your cells. They are not other people. If you DNA test an embryo it'll have a unique and new individual person's DNA.
Let's start with the fact that I fully understand you're merely attempting to troll this subreddit.  2/10 should learn biology before trolling. A human life begins at fertilization, no earlier.  Yes, that fertilized ovum could split into twins (which is really interesting, by the way), but the life of a unique human being begins at fertilization (not conception, which was redefined to happen at implantation). So, in short, the answer to your question is no.  Though you should probably seek some spiritual counseling for your campfire activities.
Abortion doesn't just prevent a human life from ever existing in the first place; that's what pro-choicers argue, not pro-lifers. Abortion ends a human life that already exists. Also, why are you jerking off over a campfire? Go find an old sock.

"I don't understand 5th grade level biology!"
It's not his fault. 5th grade is a tough year.
I bet your middle school friends think you're hilarious! But seriously though, you obviously don't understand the concept of part vs. whole. Or basic biology for that matter. A sperm is human, a fetus/embryo is a human. Do you understand the distinction? Also, I bet you've got some pretty singed pubic hairs. You should probably get off reddit and see to that. Edit a letter
I am not surprised that you don't know what an organism is versus life.
Sperm or ova are just single clone-cells of the parents, which (on their own) will never devide or become sentient living creatures. A zygote is (by definition an organism) on the path to human development.
There is no doubt in my mind that the human life cycle begins during the process of conception when 50% pf the DNA from the sperm combines with 50% of the DNA from the egg to create separate and distinct human life.  Sperm, by itself is not a separate and distinct life, nor is the egg.  Not that anyone cares, I'm also atheist, and it  bothers me when the Pro-Life movement is dismissed by Progressives as religious fundamentalism.  The reality is the Pro-choice movement are anti-science regarding this issue, because without a doubt, abortion kills a human being.   If one opposes the murder of a human being, one should logically oppose abortion.  There is nothing "potential" about the life ended during an abortion procedure, it is biologically...a separate and distinct human being at it's earliest stage of existence.  Your sperm is not a separate human being, nor is the egg.    Thank you for your time.

Then comes the "parasite" strawman.
What is this ‘parasite straw man’? Please don’t tell me they think the child is a parasite.
Absolutely. Some pro-choicers will speak of an unborn child or fetus as a "parasite". Of course it is unscientific, but I don't think that's stopping them.

That's basically the core of our argument. Science says an unborn child is a complete, yet underdeveloped human being at conception. General consensus of our culture says it is wrong to kill other human beings. Therefore it is wrong to kill the unborn. Unless you don't think killing human beings is wrong as a general rule.
It really doesn't matter, the prolife agenda is pretty much dead, Abortion is legal and it always will be. Republicans know they can guarantee your vote by continuing drag it out into the spotlight, like scary Democrats are literally killing babies, but nothing prolifers do, no amount of legislation or protesting changes the fact that abortion is legal. The greatest irony is the majority of prolifers support the death penalty, so to suggest you don't believe killing human beings is wrong is laughable at best.
Abortion was once illegal, its illegal elsewhere, what made it legal... its generally accepted, even by pro-choicers, that the reasoning behind their decision was really faulty, I would never vote republican and I oppose the death penalty. Anything else?
They actually do.
exactly.
If you have a few minutes, I recommend this talk: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G-AhKZnUABc It's quite long (45 min), but it's one of the most detailed and engaging responses to these strawmen I've seen. Well worth it.
Yes, I once was given this one. Can you explain what I should say in response?
Ouch. I don't think there is anything you CAN say. I'm a liberal Jewish female and people still don't listen to me when I talk about abortion, simply because I'm pro-life. Keep fighting the good fight, though! =]
Agreed, sadly. I was going to add middle class as well, but I ran out of characters. Have a spectacular day. :)
sort of like it's literally a child strawman
Childhood is a developmental stage. Age terms don't tell us what something is, just how old it is. A child is a different age from a baby, but a parasite is a different species. These two things are not analogous. Sometimes "child" is used as an umbrella term that encompasses all ages under 18ish, just like adult could mean middle aged or geriatric or even just post-pubescent. We're not actually arguing that a 4 foot tall, 50 lb preschooler is in a woman's uterus. Prochoicers ARE literally arguing that a very young human in its original environment is a parasite.
Very well put. An embryo/fetus does not change substance, it simply grows. Edit: A word
I don't get how people can't or won't understand this.
Wilful ignorance.
They do understand it, they're hoping you don't realize that they're using the argument in bad faith. Like u/Zealocy said above, once it's been thoroughly examined that the baby is not its mother, they'll seamlessly groove on into "but it's a parasite" revealing that their prior argument was BS the whole time It's just a stack of lies, it doesn't even matter beyond having more stacks of BS answers than you have questions. The exact tactic i used on my mom when i was 16 and she was trying to figure out who i was hanging out with and what i was doing. Lol.
What the prochoicers actually mean is 'its in my body' and i don't want it there
In some cases, this is true. While some pro-choicers use the mantra "My body, my choice" to (incorrectly) label the fetus as part of their body, others mean it more like this. "[A fetus would be using up resources within] My body, [so it should be] my choice [whether they could continue to do so]." In other words, this viewpoint doesn't posit that the unborn is part of the woman's body, but it's still residing within her body, so the woman should have the right to do whatever she wants with it. It's often handy in abortion debates to ask the pro-choicer which viewpoint they mean if they use this phrase, and then you can address that specifically after clarification.
This is an important distinction that should be made clearer. But a lot of prochoicers do not seem to really get it or aren't able to articulate well so confusion ensues. At the same time, I think that most of us do not agree with the premise that no one EVER has a right to use another person's body. And that parent and child relationships and parental responsibility laws  clearly dictate that a parent has a duty of care to their child. This will inevitably involve the use of one's body to care for the child. Moreover, the right to life (the right to not be killed) ties the mother's actions up.
Correct, things that are not your body have no right to be in your body. This image can illustrate both pro life and pro choice views.
It's a fetus in a womb. Science and biology say that's exactly where it's supposed to be. How can something not have a right to be where its naturally supposed to be?
A penis is supposed to be in a vagina, why can a woman refuse sex? Perhaps rape should be legal under a pro life regime to stay consistent with what science and biology say is ok?
A penis isn't naturally supposed to live in a vagina. It can visit from time to time, but that's not where it naturally lives. It naturally lives on a male's genital regions.
We can demonstrate that a fetus that exists is supposed to be in a uterus, to the extent that "supposed to" can be  scientifically measured. In the normal and healthy overwhelming majority of cases, the fetus does no harm to the uterus, and will die without the uterus. We cannot do the same with a penis, saying it's "supposed" to be in a vagina. A penis can exist quite healthfully on its owner for 100 years without ever going into a vagina. Millions do.
As a pro-lifer I completely agree with this argument. The "it's where it's supposed to be, in a natural place" is....just a bad argument.
To further your point, reproduction by rape, incest, or both would be legitimate methods of procreation under a "pro-life" regime.
Before the 70s, basically all of western civilization had a "pro life regime" and p sure rape and incest were fully illegal. In fact, today, with every 4th gal proudly proclaiming her legal abortion for all of twitter to applaud her on, incest is unprecedentedly tolerated. Just read the news. There have been increasing stories of incest being busted, with thousands of comments "well they weren't hurting anyone! #loveislove" etc. And i bet you 50 years ago a man with a rape fetish wouldn't feel comfortable seeking out rape porn or encouraging his girlfriend to try choke-play. Not saying it didn't exist, but the acceptance and frequency of it is definitely INCREASING alongside abortion and sexual license, rather than being correlated with "pro life regimes" as you say
I don't agree with this. Why should I accept this premise? Also, are you making a moral distinction between in and on or attached? If so, why? What is the moral difference. I mean, conjoined twins are unwilfully attached and can't kill each other.
I don’t see any moral dilemma with removing someone from your body (either in on on) even if the end result is death. I would not want charges pressed against a conjoined twin who wanted to be separated from his or her twin, even if it results in death. Science and biology don’t tell me what to do with my body. They only help us understand how they work. “Supposed” to be there is something we make up on our own.
I love conjoined twins arguments!  Thank you! Which twin owns the shared body? Which one can decide that the other can rightfully be killed? If both are using a shared heart, which one does the heart belong to in your opinion?
No idea. The one that has more of the heart on his or her side I guess. A jury of scientists would figure that out. A fetus isn’t sharing a body with a woman though. As the graphic clearly states, they are two separate bodies and therefore should be given equal rights. If the fetus wants to leave the mother, the fetus should have the right to leave. If the mother wants the fetus to leave, then the fetus must leave to protect the mothers bodily autonomy.
A team of scientists is never going to say a  person can no longer have access to the heart that gives them blood because another person wants it for themselves. Well,  maybe in some dystopian future. I've seen some movies like that.  But they were horror movies.
What if the fetus wants to kill the mother but keep her on artificial life support because shes threatening imminent harm to his life. Can we respect the fetus' bodily autonomy and abort the mother? Only mildly hyperbolic.
Sheer brilliance. This has delighted me. I thank you.
What? The fetus doesn’t have any rights to the mother body. The only right the fetus has is to LEAVE the mothers body.
But if the outcome of a mother asserting her right to her body is death for the child, wouldn't it also make sense that a fetus could assert that same right?! I mean, a woman had no right to a fetus' body. The mother forcefully connected herself to him and he has a right to defend himself in a way that preserves his boldly autonomy. If that means killing the mother and turning her into an incubator, so be it! (Disclaimer: I feel like it should be obvious, but since it might not be, I'm exaggerating to show how ridiculous your idea of one-sided bodily autonomy is.)

Sounds fair to me.
Yes, and surely enough, the fetus will leave on its own accord.
If the mother doesn't want it removed early, of course.
There is a big problem with your idea though. Which twin gets to kill the other? In your opinion, does a parent have to care for their child? Imagine a situation where a parent is the only one available to feed his child, must he do it? Or can he leave the child to die? We know that legally parents have this obligation. If he did not feed his child he would be criminally charged. And rightly so. Because we live in a world which affords us with many privileges but those privileges come with duties and responsibilities. There are many, many examples (in fact there is a sticky note on this sub) of times when things take precedence over bodily autonomy. Do you at least agree that there are times when things take priority over bodily autonomy? That we can not do whatever we want with our bodies? If not, then imo this conversation will probably be useless.
...because you are saying a woman has no rights to her own body if there is something attached to her growing inside of her. You are reducing women to incubators.
How is that what it's saying? How does a fetus existing remove a woman's rights to her body? She never had the right to kill anyone before, so that's not being taken away. What prochoicers really want is for a pregnant woman to have an ADDED right. No right is being taken away.
This is almost as bad as "I want it so we're having a baby - wait now I don't want it so its a clump of cells"
My sister just had a 'clump of cells' shower. Or was it a baby shower? I guess that's up to her.
Sorry for the example. Let's assume a man is having sex wih a woman, therefore, penetration has to occur. During the whole time, the man's penis is inside the woman. Does that mean that the man's penis is part of the woman's body? lol
Or a gynecologist checking the orientation of the cervix. While the doctor is palpating the inside of a patient, are those fingers hers?
In the Lion King, was it Scar who complimented Mufasa on his timing?
Clearly.
No of course not, that’s why the owner of the cervix should be allowed to forcefully remove them from her body regardless of the impact this has on the owner of the fingers. If a man was hanging off a cliff by a women’s cervix, is she allowed to force him off her cervix and to his death? Yes obviously, this post is pro-choice in my opinion. Something that is NOT YOUR BODY has no rights to YOUR BODY.
Exactly, this was my only point in this topic. Whether or not another person has the right to not be killed by you is another debate, but the topic of this thread was about what constitutes your body and why that argument is a red herring. See what i and u/Zealocy posted above. This conversation is following the expected path.
The question isn't whether or not you can forcefully remove her fingers, or whether you can force a hanging man to his death (by the way, ouch, im cringing imagining this scenario), it is whether she has the right to kill a doctor she has just let examine her cervix because she changed her mine part way through the procedure. Also no, a woman could not force a man over a cliff if he was hanging by her cervix for the same reason she couldn't force him off the cliff if he was hanging on her arm. She could only do is if he was attempting to pull her down with him, or her attempts at trying to save his life weren't working and he slipped.

"Not those women! They have internalized misogyny and are controlled by the patriarchy!"
I've had men (including a former high school teacher) tell me this more often than you'd expect, lol.
Exactly!!!!!!
It's using women as a proxy for their self so that they don't have to look so self-aggrandizing " trust women" becomes "trust only women who agree with me" which is simply "trust only me" This is same thing is done with minorities also
Courtesy of DPLM.
if they don’t want abortions they can keep a pregnancy easy as that boom wow problem solved

I was at the rally for life in Ireland and they were shouting the same thing as they're in this video, "You don't care if women die." This is ridiculous, Ireland has an exception for when the mothers life is at risk and i support this. Also when it is safe to do so they will induce early birth as to give the baby the best chance of survival. The irony of their chant is that they lie and say that we don't care if a certain kind of people die, yet they are actively advocating for a group of people to be able to be killed and think its oppression that the unborn can't be killed. P.S love the Austin Power's music, so good.
"Why can't I put this up?" "Because I said so" Entitled one, he is.
He is such a master of debate, reasoning and persuasion. Truly one of the greatest thinkers of our time.
This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.

Their whole source is the NAF.  Like, they don't even have a law enforcement source that I could see.  The National Abortion Federation--a group with a financial interest in selling abortions--said this and AP didn't even bother to verify with, say, local cops. Given that abortion centers have mailed threats to themselves in the past, these kinds of claims require investigation and fact-checking.
Speaking of sources....... Fair enough, the group is part of the pro-choice movement.  But look at what the AP is reporting.  They're saying that overall incidents of vandalism are going down, which is good.  They're not painting a grim picture of people doing horrific things all the time everywhere.  They're reporting police incidents.  I guess they could've tracked down the actual cop who filed the report or arrested the people who were trespassing, but that wouldn't make a prudent.  It's easier to look at police records rather than track down individual cops, you can cover a lot more editorial ground. So, my point is, you can dismiss the entire article because you don't like the group, or read through it carefully, and see that it's not a total hit piece, but probably more realistic insight than say, some blogger with a cross at the top of the page, and possibly learn something?
I did read the full article.  My thoughts are as above.  There's no indication they did anything but read a press release from the NAF.  There's no indication they looked at any police reports, or even at crime statistics. I don't believe what tobacco companies say about lung cancer just on their say-so.  I also, for the same reasons, don't believe what abortion companies say about abortion just on their say-so. As for the sources you wanted...http://www.amarillo.com/oklahoma-news/2010-09-04/ex-leader-abortion-clinic-charged-bomb-scare http://www.newson6.com/story/13291924/egg-timer-used-in-tulsa-abortion-clinic-bomb-scare As far as I know, this is the only instance of this particular variation on the theme occurring.  But it was enough.  And it is only the worst example.  There are a lot of less dramatic events like this.  Abortion supporters lie and sensationalize to gin up support for themselves.  This pattern has made me deeply skeptical of basically everything they say.

70% of America identifies as Christian so....there are significantly more of them in the first place.
So basically abortion rate is the same inside and outside of the church?  70% of the people and 70% of the abortions?
Well, since a lot of people self-identify as Christians without that affecting their lives, it doesn't surprise me all that much. It's similar to talking about the many, many Catholics that are pro-contraception and all sorts of things proscribed by the Church. Statistics about those people lose meaning because self-identifying doesn't make them observant Catholics. And, if they're not observant in the slightest, then it's kind of only by a technicality that they're Catholics.
Yeah, it would be more informative to know what percent of Christians, vs what percent of Jews, vs what percent of Muslims, bs what percent of agnostics, vs what percent of atheists, etc etc. That way we could see which group has the most proportionally. If there was a restaurant with 70 men and 30 women, it wouldn't be an informative statistic to say most people who eat at that restaurant shave their face.
I didn't read the article but I figured that this would be the obvious direction of the research. That's like asking whether whites or blacks are convicted of more homicides, then saying that whites committed 20x as many homocides in 2017. Doesn't really tell you much.
Yeah that's kinda my point. I don't want to know by raw numbers, I want to know proportionally.
Of course. I was kind of preaching to the choir there
I guess it was a christian group doing the study so they focused on christians?
Well I think the reason why they get such a high percentage is that it seems like they're surveying all women (edit: it says in the survey the sample matched national totals for age. So a lot of women in this survey are older women who probably had the abortion decades ago) who have *ever* had an abortion. Twenty and thirty years ago the overall Christian population was higher than it is now, so it's not surprising they find a high percentage. Also not all Christian denominations teach against abortion, and even among Catholics a significant percentage are pro-choice. Guttmacher did a survey of post-abortive women in 2014 and found that a far lower percentage (about 53%) identified as Christian, while 70% of all women aged 15-44 identify as Christian. And Guttmacher's had a far larger sample size (around 8,000, compared to 1,000 for the Lifeway one). So at least in 2014, Christians are under represented among women that get abortions.
Among "Catholics."  Being pro-choice is an automatic excommunication.
Of course they're surveying all women, why would they include men in a survey about abortion? With the exception of trans men, men can't get pregnant so they can't get an abortion. I must be misunderstanding what you mean? Cool stats, tho!
I meant in the sense that they're interviewing all women who ever got an abortion (so some who aborted in the past year and some 30 years ago), rather than women who got an abortion recently (like the Guttmacher survey).
ooh I see, I was confused because of the long parentheses in the middle.
*Cultural Christians
Ask 100 people in America what religion they identify with, 70 will say Christian even if they never set foot in a church. They just know their granny had a cross in her living room and occasionally someone said Grace at Thanksgiving. If someone wants me to believe that most, or many, or even some abortions go to my fellow veil-wearing, 9-kid-having parishioners at Mass, that someone is trying to fool me.
Agreed.  There's so many kinds of Christian that it's almost dishonest to use it anymore.
Hey, did you all read the actual survey PDF? Because, well, it is a survey by a pro-life organization about how is the "state of things" in the Christian churches about the pro-life stance. This is a very good news by itself. We now know a bit more about how these women felt about the religious community. It is a call for an action of our part. "Cultural Christians"? CINOs (Christians in name only)? It doesn't matter. Every life matters, from womb to tomb - including those CINO pregnant women. And, well, I think they need our help more than ever.
It seems that your comment contains 1 or more links that are hard to tap for mobile users. I will extend those so they're easier for our sausage fingers to click! Here is link number 1 - Previous text "PDF" Please PM /u/eganwall with issues or feedback! | Delete
Good point. I found it really interesting that input from the father of the baby plays such a large role for people who attend church infrequently or never, while for people who often attend church the input of a medical practitioner was dominant.
Uh...duh? They make up the majority of the population.
Is that per capita, or total?
If you're cruel to people in your community who are pregnant out of wedlock, it's no wonder a lot of them will seek out abortions as a solution...
As a Catholic pro-lifer, I second this observation.
As a secular pro-lifer, I second this observation.
That doesn't make any sense since evangelical Christianity is also against abortions (most likely even more so)
Yes, but if a teenager gets pregnant, and she knows her parents will kick her out of the house, what is she going to pick, be homeless AND pregnant, or get a secret abortion and pretend nothing ever happened? It doesn't really make sense, no, but it happens.
I'd imagine that is less than 1% of cases This study should have also differentiated between church going and non church going Christians
I would love to see stats for that, if you have them.
It did. The article links to the survey, where they differentiate between those who attend services once a year, once a month, once a week, and more.
shoot then im.dumb lol
I remember this from 2015
Firstly it's really hard to prove in any way where your heart lies.Secondly pro life folk overlap heavily with Christians, who would be against premarital sex, and opposition to premarital sex is also "curtailing women's options and controlling their bodies."
“That’s simply not true. Now stop trying to distract from the real issue. Even if pro-lifers are all the worst kind of misogynists, that doesn’t in the least discount their actual arguments for the rights of the unborn child.”
I think saying "stop trying to distract" minimizes the concerns of the other person (which should be respected imo). I think if you say this the other person will feel completely disregarded, disrespected, and misunderstood, which can lead to a lot of defenses being put up. I think the core of this response kind of says your values and concerns arent important, so they are not worthy of recognition and should be ignored. Maybe that doesn't give what you are saying a lot of grace. I don't know. Maybe in some situations what you said is a good response, but personally it would not be my go to. Also, some, not most, pro lifers do use abortion to try and control women's bodies. However, it is probably not the majority.
In my experience, anyone making the argument that I don’t actually care about children and that I just want to control women isn’t taking me seriously either. They don’t actually think I have some latent desire to control women. It’s just a talking point. A distraction, if you will. To deflect from the fact that the pro-choice side is completely indefensible from a biological, ethical, religious, or philosophical viewpoint.
I can see where you are coming from, and I haven't had the exact same experiences that you have, so your intuition about the intention s and attitudes of those who you talk to are probably much more accurate than any of my speculations. In my experience, there have been times when I judged a person I was talking to as understanding my view point, but willfully being obstinate and persistently flippant just to annoy me. It was extremely frustrating because I thought they understood me and were just being difficult in order to avoid the discomfort of finding a new truth and changing their mind or whatever. I learned later that we really weren't on the same page at all, and that I had been assuming them to see the world the same way I did. Honestly, I believed my own opinion so strongly I thought that everyone else could see the evidence, knew the real truth, and were just in stubborn denial. As it turned out, this was not the case. We just saw things very differently. That being said, this was only my experience.  You may be better at reading people and situations than I am, so you may be completely correct in your assessment of the other person's attitude. A lot of people do make cheap blows to opinions they disagree with, and that is good to keep in mind. Personally, I try to assume honest misunderstanding first before willful ignorance. However, that assumption can be wrong.
I understand what you’re saying. And really, in my conversations with people I’m a bit more charitable than I was in my original comment. I will always respect people. But I don’t always respect their viewpoints or concerns. I don’t believe all viewpoints deserve the same respect.
Honestly, probably a lot of these people buy into the Pro-choice Conspiracy Theory, which is the belief that pro-lifers secretly agree with pro-choicers that fetuses aren't people so therefore we don't care if they die or not, we just oppose abortion in order to control women's bodies and see them punished with pregnancy and/or death from an illegal abortion. For the most part logic really isn't going to work with people who believe this.
"Some probably are, but most aren't, like me." I then go on to explain how I am a woman, I don't want my or any other woman's body to be "controlled" and how I am not religious, wasn't raised religiously, and care about saving innocent lives more than anything else. They then go on to tell me that I have latent misogyny which is keeping me from seeing women as the victims of our patriarchy or some shit. Then it starts over again. So there's no winning, hope that helps.
lol I was gonna say! I doubt that explaining yourself helps at all. They've made up their mind before hearing any evidence.
I just ask them: "what about unborn women? Who's protecting their bodies and right to choose?"
I usually get the “they’re not people” after that lol
Yeah, because pro-lifers hating women isn't their actual argument. Its a common trend. It usually starts out as "You hate women" and then it goes to "You don't care about people after they are born" then it goes it "Too many kids in foster care" and then, after telling them we should just kills kids in foster care, they use "Its not the same thing, they aren't human" and then it devolves further into "ok, they're human but they have no right to a womans body" right back to "you want to control women." AND ROUND AND ROUND IT GOES WITHOUT EVER FIGURING OUT WHY THEY THINK ABORTION IS OK
Short sentences. The key is debating with them with short sentences. Answer each point they make one at a time. Since they'll make very long comments, you may want to ignore several of their arguments at first in order to make it easier for them to understand you.
I counter that with "how tall/old do you have to be in order to qualify as a person?" Because seriously, I'm on the short side. Do I qualify as a person? Why or why not? They usually end up contradicting themselves at some point, then stop answering when I question their contradictory arguments. The key is centering your argument on biology and other sciences, as science is their religion, and using it to prove everything needed to become an adult is already there at conception. If they bring up the "we don't know/we can't know" card, then ask them why aren't they prolife, since they don't know if that "bunch of cells" is already a person, but they are taking the risk of "possibly" killing a person instead of playing it safe and treating them as such until "they can know" at what point we become people. You can lose with this tactic. Justify your prolife argument with science, specially biology At the cue of anything related to size or age, question them on size difference among adults. Are they all people or the shortest/tallest aren't? They don't know when life begin? Question their "prochoice" standing. If they aren't sure, why aren't they playing it safe? Destroy their contradictions with basic logic. You don't even need my advice for this.
5) walk away defeated because they reverted back to "you must really hate women to go through all those mental gymnastics" and you spend the rest of your life wondering how scientific facts have become "mental gymnastics" to a group of people who claim science is the only thing that matters.
This is great.
A classic “no u” will suffice
I no u r but wut am i
Ur dep stoopid
I'm a Catholic and I'm against premarital sex because of the precarious situation it potentially creates for a child. It's not a coincidence, that's the point of that view. It, like the prolife position,  never has been about controlling women's bodies. That's the whole reason why it's unbelievable to today's generations: its not about you. What?? Not about me?? Does not compute!!! Can someone help me understand how the gnashing of teeth over "controlling women's bodies" is demonstrably different from a conspiracy theory? Don't get me wrong, i love a good conspiracy theory, but I don't think this is a very convincing one.
Is there any evidence that "pro-lifers are invested in controlling women's bodies"? This seems like such an out-of-left-field complaint, yet it's one of the go-to pro-choice defenses. I just don't buy that there are people out there who both 1) hate women to the point of opposing abortion solely to inconvenience them, and 2) fight abortion as their means of inconveniencing women. It just seems like if you despise women that much, you'd have a far less circuitous plan on restricting their rights. Like the "pro-lifers only care about people before they're born," it's a catchy chunk of rhetoric that gets passed around with absolutely no evidence.
Direct them here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_herring
Red herring A red herring is something that misleads or distracts from a relevant or important issue. It may be either a logical fallacy or a literary device that leads readers or audiences towards a false conclusion. A red herring might be intentionally used, such as in mystery fiction or as part of rhetorical strategies (e.g. in politics), or it could be inadvertently used during argumentation. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
"Thank you for presuming to know what I believe better than I do. Even if that were true (and it's not), it would still have exactly zero relevance to the question of whether the unborn have rights or not."
That's not an argument. 95% of the time, it's not even a sincere question. It's rhetoric, not dialectic. Respond in kind. Say they don't care about women, just irresponsible fucking, to the point where they'll kill babies rather than exhibit or expect any self-control. Can always google up a picture of a third trimester child and bluntly ask "So how many are you willing to kill so you can cum in peace?" This usually won't change any minds on the spot, but it will often shut people up and keep them from bothering you, possibly other pro-lifers as well.
"Your concern about the lives of children is legitimate, and I share it, but that does not diminish our responsibility to protect the lives of every child and prevent their deaths."
Here is a Gallup Poll that has been tracking shifting public opinions on the abortion topic for over a decade. It clearly shows that there has always been a significant number of women that identify as pro-life, and that even though men are more likely to be pro-life than women the difference is not significant. I always find these to be two very useful fact of these arguments.

My blog - full disclosure

Several women suffered health issues at the hands of Marie Stopes. One in particular (who bled to death) was in the news recently because the inquest into her death concluded some days ago. http://www.spuc.org.uk/news/news-stories/2018/may/woman-who-died-at-ealing-msi-victim-of-repeated-failures-inquest-rules http://www.spuc.org.uk/news/news-stories/2018/april/woman-bled-to-death-after-ealing-marie-stopes-sent-her-home-vomiting-and-swaying (I refer to SPUC because they also link to the mainstream news articles that reported on it, if you're inclined to read those).
What do they mean prosecution declined to offer evidence in court? Are they seriously so unwilling to go near the abortion issue that they let someone go who is obviously a serious danger to society?
Sadly it seems that way. It wouldn't be the first time the CPS has shown bias in handling an abortion-related case - Aisling Hubert springs to mind: CPS takes over the case against two doctors performing abortions illegally, CPS drops the case because "it would not be in the public interest to prosecute".
That's so much bullshit. They'd rather abortion be dangerous than risk the public looking at the issue too closely. Are they that insecure about something they think is a fundamental right? If it was, it would stand up to a little scrutiny.

Good. I commented that in /r/news and folks aren't happy lol.
"But it's a parasite!!!!!!!!1!1!1!1!1!!!!" That makes me sick.
Right?
I know that it's not their fault for thinking it, but it's still sickening.
I've just grown numb to it at this point.
I just looked at your karma. I think you'll be fine!
Oh I don't care about internet points lol.
You life warriors and your babies!
Hahahaha
If they can do this why can't they ban abortion at 1 day? Serious question.
Baby steps
Pun intended?
Too soon
Yes, but seriously taking small steps will work better using gradualism. Once abortion is banned after 6 weeks or the heart rate is detected, that becomes the new normal, and it becomes easier to ban abortion after that. Going from abortion to no abortion is too fast and shocking. It took many years to get abortion to become legal. If you want to understand the steps they took, listen to Dr. Richard Day who was the former medical director of planned parenthood. This is the full transcript, incredibly interesting who much they changed society to get people to accept abortion. https://100777.com/nwo/barbarians
I believe you are missing a word? But I'll be happy to answer your question once you add it
Ban*. Sentence still had the same meaning.
I'm really happy for this, but will Roe v Wade overturn it because federal overrides state?
That depends on whether or not the Court flips before this gets to them.
SCOTUS?
Yes.
Time to start adopting some Iowan babies...
Thank God, that is wonderful. I would vote for such a governor a million times over.
Unless you're in a deep blue state like Maryland you can vote for someone who supports similar measures.




I think if abortion weren't a possible choice we might have to deal with the issues leading to crisis pregnancies. The availability of abortion lets us sweep all that social baggage under the rug because hey, at least that one symptom went away.
Agreed.  And that is a major reason I believe abortion to ultimately be regressive and anti-feminist. The problems we have with pregnancies aren't going away, we're just killing the children produced by them.  That's like saying that you should correct the homeless problem by sending them to the poor house or the racial problem by shipping all racial minorities to their "homeland".  It doesn't change the root of the problem, only addresses the symptoms. In the bad old days, you might have some understanding of people who had abortions.  They didn't understand conception or pregnancy.  They had less opportunity to address the social issues.  Women had almost no voice. Today, we're hardly a utopia, but now that we can address these issues, what do we do?  Start killing people and calling it a virtue. I don't consider myself to be a "Progressive", but I do believe in the value of progress when it aids us in a moral and ethical advancement, dissolves drudgery, and overcomes our limitations.  But abortion is the very definition of the old way of doing things: attempting to kill the problem.

Sad. I hope every one of them faces a strong primary challenger. Edit: There were several votes on H 3548, but he's one of the Roll Calls

It makes me think we have a lot of work to do.
Makes me think we need more Mexicans here, maybe they will help stop the murder of Children.
That...it's...totally inaccurate? For example France bans abortion after 12 weeks. In Germany abortion is only allowed in the first trimester with counseling and a waiting period. Etc. In the US? Abortion as late as you want as long as you can find someone willing to do it. If you want to make stupid charts implying we should be more like the "civilized" developed countries, we could start by implementing some actual abortion restrictions at the federal level.
Oh wait I interpreted this as the moral decline of the West, and the rise of the developing world as bastions of the Christian faith. I didn't realise this was supposed to be pro-abortion lol
It's funny how progressives are such champions for the poorer nations, except when they accidentally have the "wrong" values. Then they're barbarians again.
Pretty sure this map was made by a pro-lifer (William Robert Johnston of Johnston's Archive is pro-life). Though yeah it does obscure some important law distinctions.
It's just not a good map. What does "abortion on demand" mean? Countries with the same color have drastically different laws.
So, you don't think you can find someone to illegally perform an abortion in other countries????? I'd say our country has more of a propaganda, false-information campaign problem than anything else.
uh yeah sure, but not legally (the legality aspect does matter) not as safely likely not as frequently per capita or as frequently late-term In the US, we kill at least 65 children in the womb after the first trimester for non-medical reasons every day. The only narrative you'll hear out of a pro-choicers mouth, though, is that later-term abortions only happen for dire medical reasons. So I agree with you, we have a propaganda problem. But we also have a killing-developed-fetuses problem too.
Re-read what I said.  The rest of your bullet points are speculation, and very biased against the US and for other countries.  You really wrote that other countries could perform abortions more safely in an illegal setting?  Come onnnnn...... And no, the argument you'll hear from pro-choicers is that after 16-20 weeks, i.e. late term, the rate drops to near nothing because it starts getting illegal. Yes, and 71% of those are because the woman didn't know she was pregnant until that time.  But furthermore, this was a study done in 1988!!!!  Medical technology has significantly made leaps and bounds since then, so it's not surprising that they weren't able to tell people about prenatal conditions. Then, the second biggest reasons women had to wait was because they couldn't make arrangements!  That's right, because of SOO many restrictions and lack of women's services, they couldn't make the appointment before 12-16 weeks. So yes, when you make it incredibly difficult and use outdated information that reflects a time long ago, your argument is superior here. Right there.  They took time to make a VERY difficult decision.  They had a hard choice to make, and I'll guarantee it didn't come easy. And lastly, this is important regarding propaganda you're trying to spread,  notice how the blogger interprets the word "obtain" to make it seem like it works for her argument.  "Obtain" does NOT mean "delaying".  The women who didn't get an abortion until later (71%)  simply didn't know they were pregnant.  You're not "delaying" something if you don't know about something.  PROPAGANDA.
What are talking about, that's not at all what I just said. Re-read. Again, did you even read the whole thing? The study showing reasons for seeking late-term abortions was done in 2004. It's pretty rich to get so condescending when you fail to read more than 1/3 of the way down. No matter how many times you call it "difficult," it doesn't change the fact that the majority aren't done out of medical necessity. They're done for convenience.
Majority? Like 71% that didn't even know they were pregnant?  NOt exactly done out of convenience, but ok, whatever. Or the 46% near majority that simply couldn't get the arrangements together?  Not exactly a convenience issue there.... Sorry, you're wrong again.  Re-Read the blog you gave me.  The 1988 study was respective to 16+week abortion seeking.  The 2004 study regarded women getting an abortion at any point.   It's all in the language, and this blog is full of propaganda language meant to confuse you. While you may not have sympathy for women in tough situations, they're not having this done for convenience.  There's a LOT of reasons, but convenience is not one of them.
Uhh yeah. "oh shit I've been pregnant for weeks and had no idea but I don't want a kid so I'm going to get an abortion" -- still a matter of convenience, not medical necessity. Yeah? Seriously. Read. This isn't deceptive; it's written plainly in front of you. You just gloss over shit and conclude it's deceptive. Read.
Oy.  Ok, so the blogger is presenting two different studies.  One done in 1988, and one done in 2004.  I'm quoting one study, the first one, and you keep struggling to see the split in the two?  I can't help you there.  They are two different studies that looked at two different time frames. In the 2004 study, since it was abortion at any point in the pregnancy, the blogger is assuming that after 16 weeks, the number won't really change, which is her assumption, not represented by the 2004 study. I get it, statistics is hard, and even harder to understand when we have a strong bias.  But you've GOT to stop letting people fool you like this.
Riiight so saying "omg this blog uses OLD STUDIES" to imply invalidity purposefully ignores that the conclusive statements are backed up by a far more recent study done in 2004. I get it, reading the entirety of a several-paragraph-long blog post is hard, and even harder to refrain from making condescending and incorrect accusations about how deceptive it is before finishing it. But you've GOT to stop letting your bias prevent you from reading. For example: "In the 2004 study, since it was abortion at any point in the pregnancy..." Nope. Literally just explained this to you in the previous comment. They specifically noted statistics for second-trimester+ abortions. Continuing to ignore this in order to press your point is just making you look stupid.
Keyword here- GUESS   Everything she says after this is speculation, i.e. bull. All of her numbers, including the 65 per day, are inaccurate at best.   Why would they do such a thing?  Because it makes their numbers look better without having any actual data to back it up.  It's misleading, and kills the credibility of her argument. Yes, because this old study was done nearly 30 years ago.  Everything about it is most likely invalid as time has moved on.  It'd be like trying to using a chemistry book from 30 years ago.  Yeah, most of it is still accurate, but there's been so many changes and advances in technology, that a lot of is inaccurate and false.

It makes me think, "If only western nations did things more like Libya... the world would be a much better place."
These are also the countries that I would note are almost entirely responsible for global warming, the ozone hole, and well, just about every major war in the last two centuries. Look, I like that we're advanced scientifically, and I prefer our forms of government and education.  That's all great.  But other maps like this are usually used to show how we're exploiting those regions for their raw materials or making colonies out of them. I believe the arguments for abortion are not good ones, but this is an argument that doesn't even reach the low bar of the others.
It was a question you doss cunt
Welp, see ya.
Terrifying that this many countries murder their own children on a daily basis. Years from now, children will be learning about the true horrors of abortion in school and wonder why we all thought it was okay
Makes me worry about ireland
It looks in the polls we’re voting to repeal. Will be close tho. If all the old religious people turn up but the youth don’t it might not
which poll? Poll shows support for Repeal falls when 12 week limit is suggested A new poll published today shows that while 53% of people want the 8th amendment repealed, that falls to 47% when the government's proposal of terminations up to 12 weeks is included. The Red C poll, published today in the Sunday Business Post, shows that while 26% oppose repealing the 8th, this rises to 32% when the 12 week limit is introduced. Hugh O'Connell ✔ @oconnellhugh 🚨 New Red C/Sunday Business Post #8thRef poll 🚨 Repeal Yes 53% (-3) No 26% (=) D/K 21% (+2) 12 weeks Yes 47% (-5) No 32% (-1) D/K 21% (+6) 2:35 AM - Apr 29, 2018 68 57 people are talking about this Twitter Ads info and privacy This is similar to the poll published in yesterday's Irish Daily Mail which included the 12 week proposal in the question, with 46% saying they would vote Yes and 31% saying they would vote No. A graphic shared on Twitter by Dublin based analyst David Higgins compares the core support for a Yes vote in a few of Ireland's most recent referendums, and includes the present trajectory of the Repeal the 8th campaign. View image on Twitter View image on Twitter David Higgins @higginsdavidw Core YES support now 46%. Marriage equality had a whopping 72% support at this stage at the campaign, before dropping to 62% at the final result. #8thref It shows the Repeal the 8th campaign following a similar pattern to the campaign to legalise divorce in 1995, although the latter began with a higher lead. While the divorce campaign also sank below the 50% point (albeit at a later date), it just about pulled up to win with a 50.28% Yes vote in the end. Polling so far would show that this referendum could go right down to the wire, and that the prospect of terminations up to 12 weeks is off-putting to some voters.
The Irish Mirror had one about a month ago that was 56 yes and low 40 no rest not sure. No idea of their sample size or demographics though.
It's dropped significantly. Yes is below 50 consistently now days What happens if there's no majority
Leo said there won’t be another referendum in his government. Not sure when it can come up again. Think I heard 10 years but really not sure. It will pass eventually
this has already been pointed out, but what i think when seeing this map is that it is a bit inaccurate & unclear/ simplified. I mean, is there something in particular i am supposed to think when looking at this?
It makes me think that history is repeating itself and the West is made up of the arrogant nations who think forcing their morality on others is somehow civilized.
How exactly ? Those countries make up their own laws
Democracy died a long time ago. Besides I was talking about the fact that preborn children do not have a say in the matter concerning their own life. It's easy to have the law align with your belief when you have banned some human beings from personhood and citizenship.

You're right. The western world has never gotten anything wrong before.
What the fuck kind of question is this? Of course it is.
You don’t think it’s possible you are wrong?
It's possible, sure. Do you have an actual reason you'd like to give for why I'm wrong, or would you like to throw around some more bandwagon fallacies?
I never said you were. I just asked if you believed there was a chance you are, and that the majority of the populations of the most competent, educated, and least religious (minus the US) countries in the world are not.
You do realize that it's possible for laws to be wrong, don't you?
I do. But why the discrepancy between advanced wealthy, atheist countries, and impoverished, religious, underdeveloped countries. There’s a clear correlation there that is what I was hoping to hear some opinions on with this post.
It's possible for a wealthy country's laws to be wrong too; wealth is no guarantee of moral standing. In fact, a lot of countries owe their wealth to pretty immoral pasts of slavery and colonialism.
Wealth isn’t alone which divides these countries. Look at the Arabic world. You could also show correlation between the sides of this map with women’s rights, education, religion, health care. To me this is very convincing that my country, Ireland, need to get to where the rest of the western world have been for decades and give women their autonomic rights. A ball of cells is so meaningless if you have an understanding of basic biology. A mole on my foot is akin to an early fetus.
So your only "arguments" are yet more bandwagon fallacies and a basic misunderstanding of biology? A mole on your foot is nothing like an early fetus.
Women's rights and abortion rights are two different things. In fact abortion tramples on women's rights by enabling society to grant them rights only on the condition that they renounce what makes them different and conform to the demands of men.
That's incredibly condescending. You're basically repeating the argument from a century ago that colonialism is great because those poor primitive dark folks don't know how to live like civilized people. Maybe some of the ways we got to being advanced and wealthy are a factor here. We have a long history of deciding certain people don't matter, and it's unfortunately done very well for us in the long run. Doesn't make it right.
I’m Irish, I hate colonialism...
But you're repeating verbatim the justification for it existing. Does the relative development and wealth of England mean it had the right to make Ireland conform to its ways and values? No. The same applies here.
Not who you're talking to but... Have you thought about the fact that this map shows more how willing these countries are to stand on the backs of their unborn children to achieve the socio-economic standing they so desire, and some countries are not willing, or do not want to do that? It has nothing to do with them getting it right, and more to do with them sacrificing millions of unborn children so they can live a certain lifestyle. I suggest this video to you: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FutdOaDXOg0 watch it in its entirety please. Also, most of us have considered the possibility we are wrong before...which led us to becoming pro-life. I was pro-choice for longer than I have been pro-life. Edit grammar because mobile sucks.
Yes
this phone's battery is at 1% and needs charging! I am a bot. I use OCR to detect battery levels. Sometimes I make mistakes. sorry. ^^info
Bad bot.

Just another aspect of bro-choice culture and abortion coercion.
Couldn't have said it better myself.

A seed that has been planted is a tree.  It is a discrete organism of that plant species. (Unless it’s part of a colony tree, because plants are weird and don’t have life cycles that match up one-to-one with mammal ones.  But that’s another story...) Basically, is person is wrong on the facts.  Conception creates a unique human organism that is not the same organism as the mother.  This is well-established science.  This person is just wrong.
They are completely ignoring how a woman's egg gets fertilized. A zygote is more than an egg. There's also sperm, so its not only "her body" anymore.
Once the egg is fertilized, the egg and sperm cease to exist, and a new genetically unique human organism, capable of directing their own development from within, and working in a coordinated manner toward further development, is created. A group of cells that do not constitute an organism are incapable of this.
Show less
Downvoting on YouTube does nothing.
Really? :o
“FYI- I’m pro choice!” Yeah.  We know.
The cells divide because the organism is alive. If you DNA test the zygote it'll show someone else's DNA, not the mother's DNA. So, those cells are someone else's cells, and that someone must be alive because its cells are dividing. When something dies its cells cease to multiply
I mean, for starters, a blastocyst is a hollow ball of cells. But the rest of the "argument" is blatant question-begging. The seed/tree argument presupposes that "[having] a right to live" is a stage of development, and that the fetus hasn't reached it. You might as well say that calling a child a teenager with a right to live is like calling a seedling a sapling.
I like the way you put this. I may steal it for future use. Its not that hard of a concept to understand. A human being doesn't gain the right to live, that would imply it didn't have it at some point, which further implies there can be a human who doesn't have the right to live, which is absurd.
Yeah, the acorn argument basically works out like this: P1: An embryo is like an acorn.P2: An acorn isn't an oak tree. C: Therefore, an embryo isn't a human. There are a couple problems with this argument. First of all, it's missing a third premise, namely that an oak tree is like a human. This premise is just flat-out false. An oak tree is like an adult human. But including the correct P3 would lead to the conclusion "an embryo isn't an adult human", which is pretty obvious. Possibly a bigger problem, though, is the first premise. It's really just an assertion, without anything backing it up. If asked how an embryo is like an acorn, the pro-choicer making the argument tends to answer something like "Because it will become a person in the future, but isn't yet.", and including that as P0 illustrates the circular nature of the argument.
Basically using what they claim to be their conclusion as support to backup their initial premise, which you can't do.
Exactly. Honestly, I have a sneaking suspicion that it wasn't originally intended to be an argument, just a statement of belief. As a point of comparison, when a pro-lifer responds to "We need abortion to fight overpopulation!" with "Why not kill born people to fight overpopulation?", that's not the actual argument against abortion; it's a prompt for the pro-choicer to respond with "But that's different, because <X>!", at which point the pro-lifer can explain why <X> is a poor reason to deny someone human rights. Similarly, I think that the acorn argument was just supposed to be a "what we believe" analogy, not a "why we believe it" analogy. But then someone the analogy resonated with decided it'd resonate just as well with pro-lifers and decided to use it as an argument, not realizing that it only resonates if you already accept the basic premise. Kind of like how Christians quote scripture at atheists and expect that to do anything. The acorn analogy actually works really well in response to to the question "What do you mean, 'potential person'?"; it just fails miserably at answering why someone should become pro-choice.
I am pro life. The minute the egg is fertilized that is when life is made. If you want to have sex then you must deal with the consequences of that choice. Murder is not an option. If you dont like the result of your actions you kill the result? What kind of message does that send. Your body is yours and you made the choice to have sex and if you get pregnant then you have to deal with that as well. If you put a loaded gun to your head and pull the trigger then you have to deal with the outcome of that choice, same with having sex. You did it now deal. Dont kill a child give it up for adoption where a loving family can adopt the baby and love it. This my body my choice crap is is just a bunch of kids doing what they shouldnt and then cry about it. Murder sticks with you, killing a helpless baby  will mark your soul. As a Christian I must tell you that planned parenthood and the abortion agenda are a satanic movement. Keep the thighs shut or deal with baby when you get pregnant. MURDER IS NEVER AN OPTION. What if your parents wanted an abortion? You would have been robbed of all that you have experienced.
I am also pro-life, and nothing you said is helpful. We're not telling people how to live, that's no one's business. We are simply against, like any sane person should be, the killing of innocent human beings. Your reasonings have nothing to do with that, making it wholly unhelpful to our cause.
You and your soapbox can stand for whatever you want. I don’t really care. My opinion is mine and mine alone to worry about. You don’t like then grow up and deal with it. I accept your point of view regardless if I agree. That’s called being an adult. I said nothing rude or offensive. Thank you for sharing your opinion with me.
And that would be fine, if it wasn't pushing people away. I know how people react to reading what you wrote. It turns people away, and we don't need that. You can have your opinions and reasons for being prolife, they aren't invalid. But you need to ask yourself if the message you're sending is the best for the prolife movement. We should be focusing on the most persuasive arguments we have, not throwing accusatory drivel around that makes people take us less seriously. You're making it harder for everyone else who then have to convince people that we're not all like that.
The thing you have to realize is sometimes hard truths are what’s needed. This recent movement of trying ever so hard not to offend someone has only served to kill off people speaking their mind. I don’t care if the truth hurts. I don’t say what I feel to hurt anyone’s feelings, the truth is the truth and if it stings then maybe you should think about why it hurt so much.
Hard truths don't change hearts. They make people want to turn away and spite you.  Hard truths didn't make me switch sides, finding a rational and level headed person who made me realize I was wrong about the unborn is what did. Telling someone they are satanic and should keep their thighs closes isn't a hard truth. It's a great way to lose credibility.
What credibility do I have to worry about. I don’t care if you don’t agree. Truth is what it is. This is my truth. Yours is yours. The fact of the matter is what I said is valid and true. I have daughters. U think I’m worried to tell them to keep the thighs closed? Planned parenthood is satanic. Fact. I love that u are so passionate about ur feelings and I respect that. Regardless if I follow ur thoughts. You should do the same. It’s my opinion. I’m not mad or put off that u don’t agree and u shouldn’t be either
I'm not mad about anything, but it's hard to read people saying the same things that made me stick to being prochoice for as long as I did. Imagine how many other people on fence read what you wrote and turned away, reminded why they disliked prolifers in the first place. Our message should speak for itself, but people are emotional and have a tendency to reject things that make them angry whether or not they are true. They have to realize it on their own, helped by the facts that we provide. You are hurting us. Please understand that.
Again I disagree. But no worries. This was probably a one time glance here for me. I said what I did with love as my intent. Sometimes love sounds harsh but sometimes that’s what’s needed.


Will this convince a pro choice person though? They know that zygotes "grow into people" in the correct environment (an ovum), so won't they see this as a fabricated environment that allows a "potential" person to "become" a person?
Probably not.  Most of them don't favor killing someone who looks like a baby.  But if it is still a clump of cells, they're fine with it. It may help push back the line of acceptance, which is helpful, but won't stop the killing entirely. Those with the bodily autonomy argument wouldn't be convinced at all.  Their philosophy quite literally permits even killing perfectly viable children the minute before they're born because they're occupying the mother's sovereign organs.
There's a significant number of people that even believe a baby at nine months can be aborted.

Wow, it’s almost like using “miracle” colloquially doesn’t necessarily imply supernatural events or something.  Are you this much of a buzz-kill at parties, too?  It must make you so popular!
Never take u/Brodusgus to a Christmas party with children there.
For you, I'll call them science babies.

It's a scientific miracle!!1
The first words of the text are “Thanks to advancements in science,” but why bother reading it when you could just be a twit?


Catchy.
I haven't been a fan of rhymes in the legal process since "If the glove doesn't fit, you must acquit."
That one was infuriating because it is not a complete sentence and it ends in a transitive verb!! UGHHHHHH
As much as I agree with him, I did have to suppress an eye roll. But hey, maybe it will work on undecideds....
Vogon level poetry, but nearly correct. I'd counter with "If it's fertilized, it must be prized."
Godbless
It doesn't help the pro-life cause when reprehensible, racist people make the pro-life headlines.

But we’re a group of cells -Quoted by one of my friends
Years ago my younger brother was debating abortion in his government class. One girl said, "it's just a clump of cells!" My brother responded with "You're a clump of cells." He honestly didn't expect it to work, but it shut her down for the rest of the debate.
Yeah there’s another good point I’ve heard about abortion. It was against the point where women say that it’s her body so it’s her decision. But when you look into it and take for example the slave situation. Slave owners said that people couldn’t take away their slaves because it was “their property”, which was the point of comparing living humans to objects. Taking a resonable human right and putting it in a radical nature in an exaggerated reality. Saying a fetus is part of someone, and not it’s own living organism (even though it takes food from the mother) is completely absurd. The only reason most woman support abortion is because of their own insecurity to fail using birth control, and taking that emotion and calling it your “right as a person” to have the right to decide if your child should be murdered.
Also her body doesn't temporarily have 4 arms, 4 legs, two heads, two hearts, and 20 fingers.
I don't think pro-choice people are implying that the pregnant person and the baby have literally the exact same body. I guess some do that haven't really thought through the issue. I think the main point of the pro-choice argument is more that one person does not have the right to use another person's body without their consent. I am not commenting on the merit of that argument. I just think that if we want to sound like we have educated opinions we should really show that we understand the other side's argument first. I find when I am discussing something with someone the only way the conversation can be productive is if we both can see where the other person is coming from, even if we disagree. Otherwise, I think the conversation turns circular, as we are both just trying to get the other to understand our stance and therefore the conversation is redundant and gets nowhere.
I have this image saved to respond to the worst of these bs arguments.
BuT sKiNcElLs ArE hUmAn
One of the worst arguments ever created and the worst part is that the people who say think they’re so smart.


I read in a BBC article something along the lines of "Opponents argue that the 6-week deadline comes before most women even know they're pregnant." That's kinda the point.
That’s fucked up. Want knee-jerk abortions? This is how you get knee-jerk abortions
And somehow that'll change my mind?  Somebody is so determined to kill their child that they put themselves at risk, and that's an excuse to let them?
I’m saying that half of pro-life laws just make people get abortions more desperately. Like, if I got pregnant under this law, I would have almost no time to think about whether I wanted the baby. I’d be inclined to get an abortion unless I was 100% about the birth. It’s just ironic that these laws effectively do the opposite of what you want - fewer abortions.
It's about making people recognize that the fetus is a human being and that abortion is a highly immoral act.  This law does that, and would allow the expansion of rights for unborn people.  If an abortion doctor is willing to prey on women and put themselves at risk, then they should expect to be jailed.  There's no evidence that it would increase abortion rates, either.
https://www.nbcnews.com/health/health-care/abortion-rates-go-down-when-countries-make-it-legal-report-n858476 There is evidence. If anything, your gratuitous laws increase abortions. You’re responsible for more abortions when all you had to do is nothing. And people know that they’re killing a potential human being. I agree that abortions are objectively, morally wrong. But we cannot be moral absolutists. Reducing abortions involves sexual education (no lies about abortion procedure complications), funding for child healthcare, better maternity/paternity leave protections, and better public education. For all the trouble spent on these pointless laws, you could actually make a difference.
Title of Article: "Abortion rates go down when countries make it legal: report" (emphasis mine). Actual content of article: You can't make claims about the temporal effects of abortion laws but only reference a crude analysis of different countries with different laws at a given point in time. The article should show that, particularly in developed countries, abortions go up after abortion is made illegal. It doesn't show that. Rather it shows that underdeveloped countries have a lot of illegal abortions. That really says nothing about the effect of abortion laws. Ever heard of confounding?
No they don't. More restrictions decrease abortions. See http://blog.secularprolife.org/2017/08/pro-life-laws-stop-abortions-heres.html I've personally never seen any strong evidence that any of those things reduce abortions more than laws. Do you have any studies?
Why do you use the term "potential human being?" Not trying to be insulting, just trying to figure out if you're denying the science of embryology or just don't know it. There is no such thing as a potential human being. There is either a human cell, or a human being. There is no in between. Once a sperm cell fertilizes an egg, the sperm and egg cease to exist, and a whole, yet underdeveloped human being exists. Thought that might help clear it up.
Okay, full on human being. No comment on the rest? You guys are monomaniacal about semantics but care very little about life.
It wasn't my argument, I wasn't addressing your argument, just wondering why you use that term. I can though, if you want. To address abortion fully, we need to make sure everyone understands that abortion kills a living human being. Since all human beings have value because of what they are, not what they can do, it's obvious why abortion should be illegal. Once that is done, we need to teach teens and young adults how to prevent pregnancy through comprehensive sexual education, emphasizing the use of redundant birth control each and very time. Pill plus condom, IUD plus condom, Pill plus diaphragm, etc etc. in addition to teaching responsible decision making and understanding that sex can lead to pregnancy whether you want it to or not. Then we need to address the needs of mothers who get pregnant. Should they choose to put it up for adoption, we need to educate people so they understand that this does not mean foster care. There are 36 times more couples waiting to adopt than there are actual adoptable babies. That baby will, with almost 100% certainty, go to an adoptive family that they choose. If they want to keep it, we need some more financial incentives (tax, welfare, etc) that ease the burden of raising children for lower to mid income families and women. We also need to address the cost of childcare which is painfully prohibitive to a woman's upward mobility while raising children, especially single mothers. Those financial incentives need to help with this. We also need to lower the income it takes for pregnant women to get on Medicaid (unless we go for a single payer system which I would be more in favor of). It's already a pretty high bar, and most pregnancy women are already able to get Medicaid while pregnant if they apply for it. We also need more emotional support in the form of government sponsored activities and resources, like optional (note: not mandatory, this wont be a requirement for receiving help) parenting, lactation, or any other needed classes, support groups, or other activities. Once a woman feels secure in her healthcare, is able to pay for childcare, has help buying some extra food, and has the emotional support she needs....why would she choose abortion? And we can pay for all this if we stop giving tax cuts to the people who don't need it just so they can give more money to people who really really don't need it. I'm sure you know what I'm referring to, but saying his name in a bad context isn't welcome here usually. Does that answer your question?
Saying “potential person” versus “full on person” is just semantics is like claiming that “negro” versus “full on person” is just semantics. Given the issue at hand, it is undeniably a moral and philosophical distinction rather than a semantic one.
Almost certain to be shot down in the courts, but hopefully it will gain enough publicity to make everybody face the fact that babies have a beating heart before you even know they are there.
I wonder if this is the real purpose for bills like this, to gradually get pro-choicers to consider the "clump of cells" that get aborted every 10 minutes. Because it certainly won't pass if that pain-capable 20-week one didn't.
Well, to be frank, it is basically political fanservice for pro-lifers.  They may be hoping for it to make an impact somehow, but it is mostly the legislators attempting to keep voters happy. I do think laws like this should continue to be made, even if they are likely to be shot down.  It is important that our representatives are at least attempting to carry out the will of their constituents and protect children, even if the current judicial process is biased against justice for them.
Instead of spending money on children who have already been born we waste money on these bills that are doomed to fail? That's terrible honestly.
That line of reasoning is also used for bogus arguments against things like the space program and a host of other desirable initiatives.    There's always something else you can spend money on, that's no reason to not spend time and money on something important.
Those are different things. Some things have tangible results and some things don't. By their very nature these are a waste of money. It's akin to burning dollars that could go to better uses. How many non-profit lawyers would look at the proposed bills/laws and say whether or not there was a chance. Why not spend the money on one that might actually pass?
I agree ... it won't get past the courts as they stand now.  Perhaps, though, was Iowa selected to get an appeals path to the Supreme Court?
A beating heart is irrelevant to scientific term of “life”. This is just to gain the votes of the diminishing pro life crowd and frankly just a waste of tax payer money in my opinion. Teach your cause without using my tax money.
This isn't a scientific debate over what constitutes "life," this is a means to force pro-choicers to come to terms with the fact that a six-week-old fetus is already far more complex and human than a "clump of cells," to use their own language. At least, that's one of many goals accomplished by this legislation. If you wanna stop wasting taxpayer money, take the half a billion dollars that Planned Parenthood sucks up every year and give it to an organization that doesn't murder people. Murder your offspring without using my tax money. Or better yet, choose life instead.
Tax payer money should be based on the vote of the people. The people want abortion to be legal. Just because you disagree with it doesn’t mean it’s a waste. Tax money should be given to people who need healthcare assistance, we think abortion is a part of basic healthcare. And yes, I believe abortion is murder. I’m ok with murdering people if it means someone doesn’t loose their bodily autonomy. The loss of bodily autonomy to me is far worse than the murder of the child taking away your bodily autonomy, no matter where the child came from or how it was conceived.
Yes life begins at conception not the heartbeat.
A good day to be an Iowan
I just saw this under trending on FB and fistpumped. Then I read people's comments and felt ill. WTF is wrong with people that they are ok with babies being dismembered? I weep for mankind.
Excuse me if I’m being ignorant. But can’t you just take a pregnancy test every other day or once a week if you suspect that a penis did an uh-oh? It seems like it would be easily avoidable instead of saying “oh shit” at 6 weeks.
No worries about being ignorant. Here are some answers: Pregnancy tests are disposable and not free (something like $20 for a pair). Not too bad in a normal scenario, in which a woman misses her menstrual period (roughly 2 weeks after conception), tests herself, and then goes to a doctor to confirm; however, using one test every other day would get expensive. Even the most sensitive tests can't accurately detect pregnancy until about 2 weeks after conception. A lot of women also have irregular periods, and it's not unheard-of for a woman simply to skip a period altogether. Some women wait until the second skipped period before seriously considering they might be pregnant, which puts them right at the 6-week mark. If the woman is using long-term birth control (pill, diaphragm, etc), she could be sexually active and not expect to get pregnant. There would be no "uh-oh" like a broken condom or something. Pregnancy can still happen in spite of these forms of birth control, though.
Thank you for the detailed response, I didn’t know it was that complicated when it came to pregnancy.
Fair question, no worries. People who get pregnant unexpectedly (perhaps due to failed birth control or a poorly executed pull-out) wouldn't think to test themselves because they don't expect to be pregnant. Plus, there are loads of people who aren't properly educated about sex/fertility and may have misconceptions about what circumstances and actions can lead to pregnancy. Those people might have sex thinking there's no way they'd get pregnant. So, of course, they wouldn't think to take a pregnancy test. Finally, there are others who might be short on cash and can't easily afford a pregnancy test, so they just cross their fingers and hope for their period to come.
"Weeks pregnant" is a tricky term. The weeks actually refer to how many weeks since your last cycle started. If an egg got fertilized 2 weeks ago, mom is actually 4 weeks pregnant. 6 weeks pregnant means the egg was fertilized 4 weeks ago. Assuming you take a test every 2 weeks (which is how long after conception the hormones will be readable by the test), by the time you get a positive you're already 4 or 5 weeks pregnant, leaving 1 week until the heartbeat can be picked up.


Happy Birthday to your Reddit account :)

Alternative title: "Unborn lives: Iowa legislature passes nation's most protective bill".
god bless iowa

We can debate the morality of abortion all we want, but from a methodology perspective, the "science" behind this pill is tenuous at best, while we know abortion is a very safe procedure.
Has any major medical association denounced this procedure and called for it to stop? Have any doctors using this protocol been censured or had their license revoked because of the use of this protocol? To my understanding, the active ingredient of the pill which is used in this protocol is Progesterone, a medication that is already approved by the FDA for use as a form of birth control and hormone therapy, so we're dealing with a drug that is very well studied and whose side effects and dangers are well known. It is also being studied and used to prevent preterm birth. Funny that a procedure with a ~51% mortality rate is considered "very safe".
The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) doesn’t recommend the procedure, calling it “unproven and unethical.” And Delgado’s (The author of this pill) latest study, which builds on a 2012 study he authored involving seven women, didn’t change the group’s opinion. Daniel Grossman, a physician and the director of the Advancing New Standards in Reproductive Health research group, and Monica McLemore, an assistant professor at the University of California San Francisco’s School of Nursing, also stated that Delgado’s study fails to prove that doctors should tell patients about “abortion reversal.” Abortion is 14 times safer than childbirth.
I think more studies need to be done about this procedure then. Since it was published, I would hope other scientists and researchers would test the methods and come to their own conclusions. I don't know how the medical community works, but not recommending a procedure isn't the same as saying it is dangerous and must be stopped. Not for the children it kills, it isn't.
As was the use of Zyklon B, although Tesch paid the ultimate price for providing it to Nazi Germany, listed on order forms as "materials for Jewish resettlement".

Abortion is only 14 times safer than childbirth if you don't consider the death of the baby as death
we're not trivializing it, it's that much a big deal for us
I am pretty sure when groups and organizations that have actually experienced the Holocaust say Pro-Lifers trivialize it, then I think you are.
Can someone who is actually Jewish and lost family in the holocaust chime in? Hi there! It's not trivializing it. The holocaust was a human rights atrocity, and million suffered and died in unspeakable ways. Abortion is also a human rights atrocity. Just because they aren't suffering, doesn't mean their lives were any less valuable. All humans have equal value, and the extermination of humans will always be an atrocity. Jewish people also tend to be very pro-choice/ pro-abortion, which may contribute to their feelings about it.
Sadly, I believe The Silent Scream demonstrates that preborn babies indeed DO SUFFER as they are being killed.
I've seen this, unfortunately...and while I agree, I was more referring to the majority of abortions which happen in the first trimester, because being able to feel whether or not someone is killing you should have no impact on whether or not its ok. Thanks for sharing it though!
I am always amazed at how many people support abortion who are unwilling to actually watch one.  And for those who actually perform them--such an insidious evil...
And now I am wondering why I watched this again. Why do I do this to myself!!?!? Its utterly horrifying.

That awkward moment when the Silent Scream has been debunked. Leading pediatric neurologists and neuroembryologists agree that until the third trimester of fetal development (24-36 weeks), the spinal cord is not far enough developed to pass messages to the brain, and the brain itself does not develop until then the cognitive structure needed to perceive pain or aggression or to perform "purposeful action." It is especially irresponsible for the narrator of the movie to assert that a 12-week fetus could experience pain. Dr. Edwin Myer, chairman of the department of pediatric neurology at the Medical Colege of Virginia, says "that the fetus feels pain is a totally ridiculous statement. Pain implies cognition. There is no brain to receive the information." The fetal movements shown on the ultrasound are thus not reactions to perceptions of pain, aggression, or "imminent destruction," as the film's-narrator asserts. They are simple avoidance reactions, like the reflex of a knee when the doctor taps it. Contrary to the intentionally misleading implications of the film, there is no "silent scream." "The Silent Scream," far from contributing to the abortion debate, relies on medical non-facts and deliberate manipulation to obscure the real issues. How we decide the abortion issue ultimately comes down to how much we respect women as independent and free human beings. The film shows astonishingly litle respect for the lives of grown women. https://www.thecrimson.com/article/1985/3/11/manipulative-silent-scream-pbto-the-editors/
Once again I am going to take the statements of actual organizations in this matter over the opinions of one Jewish pro-life person.
Like I said, Jews tend to be extremely pro-choice/pro-abortion. Consider how this may skew their view of the issue. Its my community, I know it very well.
It's important to note that maternal mortality data is notoriously over-reported in many states (for example the Texas maternal mortality "crisis" turned out to be entirely due to over-reporting of maternal deaths). Also, we don't know the true number of abortions that occur in the US every year, while childbirths are very well documented. So I don't think the CDC data is particularly reliable here.

Well, feminist group with PP as a sponsor, hosting summer camp about gender.  Not exactly a PP summer camp, but certainly expect the usual talking points on "reproductive justice". As if killing children is somehow just. Of course, anyone who is being sent to gender studies summer camp is already probably getting pro-choice talking points from the cradle, so it's not likely to change much other than intensifying their existing upbringing.  Sad, but hardly unexpected.
I don't get why people are complaining about this. Students For Life America does probably the exact same thing and it's even more perverse.

This article like most Pro-Life publications panicking over this shift among young millennials are trying in an intellectually dishonest to point to the statistically insignificant shifts in different demographics, but it's a complete 180 from the pro-life message. We always hear from the Pro-Life movement about how millennial's will be the: "Pro-Life Generation" and how they will be the generation "that will end abortion". But now that the data has completely burned that narrative Pro-Lifers are scrambling to point to groups that have always traditionally supported them in the past. The thing that should worry is the Pro-Choice movement is growing among those are younger and studies do indicate they aren't going to change their views when they get older. The response of so many pro-life groups does downplay this demographic shift is a telling response indeed.
Sad!



I'm not sure why the prez has been so soft on PP since getting in office. Are there interviews or things where he explains his somewhat nebulous stance on the abortion provider?
Ryan and McConnell circled the congressional wagons around PP funding and Trump had to drop it to get the other things he wanted, like more military spending.
Maybe because he's never actually been pro-life and only said that to get votes?

The Supreme Court determined their was a constitutional right to abortion in Roe v Wade.  By all means, point me to a decision that requires the taxpayers to pay for it.
Might be something to do with "planned parenthood does more than abortion."
If they didn't perform abortion, nobody would care about their funding.  Because they do, and money is a fungible asset, it's a major issue.
What do you expect them to do though. They provide services that the government has said it will pay for. It doesn't exactly make and legal sense to deny funds to one entity for providing a service just because they provide some other entirely legal service. As long as abortion is legal, you don't have to pay for it, but you can't really justify discriminating based on it. You don't really want to he government to discriminate based on people doing legal things, it would be like saying a dentist can't get reimbursed by by the government if they happen to perform root canals.
Through multiple means, both directly and indirectly, my tax dollars go to fund this damnable butcher shop. I expect them to close their doors, forever ... nothing less.
If they didn't perform abortion they'd still be approaching sex from a direction which recognizes contraception strategies apart from abstinence, and a bunch of other things hateful Christians take issue with (not all Christians are hateful, but some certainly are.) Moreover if they didn't provide abortions they'd simply be another social/healthcare service, which means people would try and torpedo their funding regardless, as Americans are want to do with government social and healthcare services.
Let me give you my perspective as a Catholic who adheres to Church teaching, perhaps one of the "hateful Christians" that takes issue with contraception. Hopefully that can give you another perspective If Planned Parenthood didn't provide abortions, I'd be fine with them receiving taxpayer funding, despite my and the Church's opposition to contraception. I wouldn't like it, but I recognize that in the liberal democracy we live in, and not a Catholic confessional state, it would be permissible to fund it and allow the public access to it. Moreover, I would welcome them as providing healthcare to the less fortunate, which is something that is very much needed. I would prefer if such help was provided in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, but it's not a bad step or a bad thing.
If America was a Roman Catholic country it's unlikely this subject of debate would still be open.  Unfortunately, and it hurts me to say this, America is not a Catholic country.  It is an Evangelical country.  In Roman Catholic countries, at least the good ones, like France, there is a sense of the separation between government and faith.  People understand that there is a difference between "God's will" and "public interest." In these discrepancies you find France having the best and most comprehensive healthcare in the world, while Catholic missionaries spent decades propagating their backwards views on reproduction which have contributed to absolutely horrible conditions, and events like the HIV epidemic in Africa. In an ideal society, everyone is free to believe and openly express whatever they want (within reason,) and people who have beliefs and views that are detrimental to society are not the ones dictating policy.  Many Roman Catholic societies, like France and Italy, are closer to that ideal than America is.  In these societies, people who hold beliefs such as yours are sequestered to the fringes as much as possible to diminish resistance to the enactment of policy in the public interest. Even you understand the failure of church doctrine in the real world, thus your views on contraception.  I believe you will eventually change your view on this subject, and the only reason you haven't already is American politics is a fucking circus and much your information comes from an Australian piece of shit who gets his kicks and fortune by starting shit with no consideration to the best interests of society.
I understand the U.S. isn't a Catholic confessional country. It's also not an Evangelical country. It's a liberal, secular democracy. I understand that there is a difference between Church teaching and public policy. I'm not here to discuss Church teaching on that, and from your comment, even if I were, it seems doubtful you would like hearing or discussing it. My point in posting was just to let you know that I, whose beliefs and Church's teachings may have you label me as a "hateful Christian" or "fringe" element with "backwards views", wouldn't have a problem with federal funding going to Planned Parenthood if they didn't provide abortions, and partially why that is.
I understand.  My response to your position is that I believe you will change your mind when you are ready. Being Catholic does not make you hateful or fringe.  Justin Trudeau is a Catholic.

Two issues here ... being against the use of artificial contraception does not make anyone hateful.  Secondly, it is a strawman of the highest order to say that Christians and especially Catholics only allow abstinence as a means of spacing children.
And Bill Cosby did more than date-rape people, but it doesn't mean he shouldn't go to jail.
You're doing that thing where you paint your political opponents with an extremely broad brush, building up a massive strawman of mustache-twirling villains who's motives are simply "hatemongering." Do you really believe that pro-lifers are adamant about PP being defunded because of hatred? Or is it an easy concept fabricated to reassure yourself that your beliefs are correct?

Why is it people who invoke the word of God on politicized issues are the same ones who neglect or violate the rights and interests of those who are living.  I mean the Salvation Army salvation army, for example, has some questionable views on homosexuality, that they do not act on politically because their goals are Charitable instead of political. In my experience the self identifying bible quoting christians who argue against homosexuality, or transexuality, or abortion, or Islam, or any other politicized topic are the same ones who most quickly neglect Christian virtue.  And those people and organisations who do behave in a charitable and sincerely Christian manner tend to be very tight lipped about any political issue, because politics does nothing to advance their humanitarian goals and a lot to sabotage them.


Bad. Prochoicers need to stop politicizing their agenda. Prolifers can pick anywhere in the city to go, the country for that matter, as most of them are regulated like any health clinic, and usetheir resources to help women in need! Sorry, but prochoicers need to stop playing the victim, and pretending the world is out to get them. Unborn human beings just don’t need to be slaughtered for your convenience. Source: have been to a crisis center, left with prenatal care, diapers, clothes, some furniture, and a smile since my baby was alive! Why are you allowed to impose your morals and metaphysical ideas of personhood and human rights but we aren’t?

One person's "choice" should not lead to the death of another innocent human being. The argument of "Don't want an abortion, don't get one" is such a silly one, because applied to anything else, it sounds abhorrent and is rightfully derided. See how silly this sounds?

Yeah, you have a point. I guess I pose it kinda as a rhetorical way of relating the pro-life viewpoint. Yes, firstly because "You live by your beliefs and let me live by mine" is a terrible idea that I disagree with, and secondly because even if I were to let them live by that belief, it would still be wrong.
It's an honest statement. We don't need to lie, as the prolife stance has been proved by science again and again. Biology and genetics are among the sciences that can prove that "thing" inside you is a unique human being and not some lettuce, frog or cancer growing inside you. Just because some horrible mothers label their children as "intruders and thieves" doesn't mean they are automatically right because their chromosomes are XX.
Well obviously in the most literal sense, such a thing is not possible, because moral claims are not derivable from science.  Certain facts that are used to reach a moral conclusion can be proven by science (which is what you presumably actually mean), but the moral conclusion itself cannot be. You can't "discover" the moral conclusion that murder is wrong via the scientific method.
Look: If science has proven these "clump of cells" are human individuals, then the moral stance about murdering applies to them by default. You either believe all murder is ok, or you are against all murder. You can't pick and choose who lives and who dies based on whims like "wanted/unwanted children". You know why? Because it's dishonest. Let's look at it from a different perspective: You are inconveniencing me. I certainly don't "want" you. Should I be allowed to kill you? You may not be inside my body competing with me for my nutrients, but you are certainly competing with me for "my" world's resources. If I were a different kind of person, I would like to have the whole thing for myself. Should I kill people who beats me to the till queue, those who are in front of me when I drive, and those pesky motorists who won't let me cross the street when I'm on foot?
Apparently I need to clarify this for you:  you are saying nothing at all.  At least nothing that disagrees with a word I said, so no, I don’t need to “look”. Yes, obviously.  And you know what?  Your belief that murder is wrong is not something you discovered via the scientific method, exactly as I just said.  So I’m not sure why you even bothered replying if you just wanted to long-form corroborate my exact point but say it in a tone as if you’re somehow disagreeing. If you want to be a part of a discussion, you should at least pay enough attention to know what was even said.
Ok, sience can't tell us that murder is wrong. But science can tell us if killing a certain being is murder or not. If science says "this is a human invidual", and we know murdering is wrong, then killing that being, now scientifically proven to be a person, is also wrong by default. Also, you haven't answered any of my questions. Please do so or the debate is over.
Given a definition of murder, yes, which is exactly what I was referring to when I said: You are now 2 posts in to your effort to recap what I already said. A slight tweak on what you said next is needed to make it rigorously correct though: The bracketed premise is of course where many people disagree.  For example, many people are in favor of the death penalty and do not accept that premise universally, but only with some exceptions, because they wouldn't call the death penalty 'murder' even though it is the killing of a human individual. You didn't ask me any questions about the only thing under discussion:  whether or not the morality of murder can be discovered via the scientific method.  Your opinion on the "debate being over" is irrelevant if you don't even know what the debate is about.  (For that matter, I've yet to see any debate at all...you just keep agreeing with me) You act like I'm concerned about you not replying anymore when all you've done is repeat what I've said, while somehow convincing yourself you're disagreeing.  I don't need to hear a recording of what I said.  Unless you can say something new or interesting, you should consider it over.
Ok, we are agreeing a lot. So please tell me, why are you against prolifers choosing a place that happens to be near an abortion place since you are agreeing our stance is fully correct? Because all I stated before this comment came from the prolife stance, and you agreed with everything (under accusations of me parroting everything you said), then I don't see any reason for you to support what this mayor did, other than trolling.


No, I'm not lying. I have no need to lie when I have the facts on my side.
I don't understand what this means. How could the pro-life movement depoliticize?
You know, I got banned in the prochoice sub for being prolife. You haven't been banned from here, which says a lot about how each side's "agenda" operates. Pro lifers don't harass women. It would be awful for the baby to stress his mother while he's still in her uterus. We aren't playing the victim game because we aren't the victims. Children are. We care about adult women as much as we care about underage boys (to cite the opposite exteme). We don't want nor need to pressure anyone into anything. If anything, we want to convince people to not kill their own children. This sub is for open debate, while R/prochoice isn't. You are welcome here, but please stop spreading outright lies.
I know.  It's just awful that someone might have an opinion that you don't share and actually have it be political or something. Thanks for your input, you've totally convinced us that we're just the "moral police" and killing human beings is a-ok.  I'm just going to go donate to Planned Parenthood now and tell all my friends to stop trying to save all those dumb clumps of cells. But seriously, I am appalled by the level of rubber baby that is being used, and I will be sure to lodge my complaint over at the local Patriarchy branch office.  I assure you, this travesty will not be allowed to stand.
I'm just basing my statement off of what the mayor said.  Numbers are tough, but cheers to The Federalist for at least not trying to hide some very damning information about the behavior of the "moral" police. Please, Human beings are killed every day, by the government that we support and live under.  It's not about killing, we've all accepted that, otherwise, you'd be protesting every war we've ever been in.  But I'm sure you can justify our need to kill other people, right? This is the exact problem with the prolife movement.  If a woman wants an abortion, it's her responsibility and her right.  It's not your business, it's not your friends' business, it's not your momma's business.  It's the person who is actually dealing with the choice.  If you cared more about the women, and less about a barely existent, unwanted clump of cells, maybe you'd have more support.  BUt you don't, you spend far more time trying to shame people rather than bringing them up, like Jesus did, right? But, please, go on and tell me more about how there was no agenda with this PCC trying to open up shop one door down from the abortion clinic.  Please, explain how it was an absolute necessity that they be right there, and how there is no ulterior motive to this choice.  I'm sure you've got plenty of justifications, right? Not just snarky remarks that completely ignore everything posted in the article.
LEt's change that sentence a bit: "If a woman wants to kill her pet, it's her responsibility and her right. It's not your business" "If a woman wants to own slaves, it's her responsibility and her right. It's not your business" "If a woman wants to go on unrestricted hunting trips, it's her responsibility and her right. It's not your business" You talk about responsibility, but you don't know what that term truly means. Being responsible is owning your choices and accepting the consequences of it. There's nothing "responsible" about abortion, because at the core, aborting is avoiding consequences and not owning your choices. And entitlement is not a right.
We see that this isn't a good argument, right?  Trying to manipulate words in a sentence without context to make you seem like you're in the right?  The first part doesn't matter, but we both agree that the second part and on are correct.  The same applies to men. Let's try: How many guys you tracking down to "own" their choices and accept their consequences?  Plenty of single mothers out there, the same ones you believe are owning up to their choice, looking for that responsible man?  Maybe we should worry about that, instead? or more? Maybe we should stop pretending that it's always a choice on the womans part, to get pregnant?  Maybe we should stop shaming women who have abortions, and telling them they're being irresponsible, when in THEIR reality, they're probably making a pretty responsible decision.  I'm sure you've been taught that all kids that aren't wanted but forced to be born have amazing lives that turn out splendidly, but in reality, they don't.  The absolutely don't.  Some might, maybe, but every single day, there are news stories about people who don't want their children.  They show this by killing their kids, or neglecting/torturing them to the point of starvation.  Or the kid runs away or is given up, bouncing from foster care home to home with no direction or anyone to love them.  It is so fucking sad what we force people to go through for our own moral compasses..... Choice is a right, one that we are all entitled to.
I'm ot tracking anyone, not even mothers who aborted their children. And while I can advise men to not abandon their families/women to no have an abortion, I can't really tie them to a chair and torture them until they do what I say. Because I'm not a forceful torturer/murderer. The pro life stance doesn't operate by force, and your idea that force is the only way comes both from your pro choice stand and the mentality that derives from it. Because there's no abortion without force being applied toward someone who can't defend himself. This is the opposite of the meaning of "prolife", where common sense, reason and honesty are the bases of the wave.
100% disagree, obviously.  It is my business, and more to the point, it is the government's business to prevent unjustifiable homicide.  That's one of the major reasons for having a government. Aside from that, it's also my business if they want me to pay for it, which is where the Democratic party is going with their professed desire to repeal the Hyde Amendment. Does wanting a child to be saved, who probably 51% of the time is a female herself, not caring about women?  Or do only certain particular classes of women count?  There is no way I accept your attempt to suggest that killing human beings is some sort of affront to women. I certainly want the best for women, but women can be supported in other ways than killing children. I don't recall shaming any women lately.  And I would point out that while Jesus did not condemn those he spoke to, he did tell them to go and sin no more.  Jesus forgave, but he did not hesitate to tell it like it was. I don't know if there was an agenda or not.  I don't particularly think there is a problem if there was.  If I could have opened up some sort of center to save people's lives and it had a chance of working, I'd do that next to abortion clinics, death row, homes of dictators and anywhere else you can think of where people might be saved if you could open up a center that would get them to reconsider. Bear in mind, I am not 100% in favor of all practices that all CPC's operate under.  But that is because I find their tactics counterproductive and easy targets for those who want to look the other way when human being are being killed.  I have no problem with them, however, if their only "agenda" is competition with abortion clinics.


These people are fucking monsters
I don’t understand people who look at this and think “good news, sucking out 14-week developed children’s brains with vacuums is now going to be legal”
I didn’t even know they had strict abortion laws
Laws that were probably enacted 100 or so years ago that they forgot to change. Abortion in England is still governed by laws made in 1861.

So I am happy for the nice ending to the story, but is this story really helpful? Shouldn't children be born even if they are disabled? I mean I am glad for the author. However, a lot of times and doctors are right, and they didn't really miss diagnose as they said they wanted to do a relatively risky test. While I understand the intentions of that may have pointed towards abortion, the title of the article still seems misleading. I dont know. I don't think looking for mistakes on the part of doctors in diagnosing fetal anomalies should be a habit. Even if the kid has issues it still deserves to be born. Also, I have never been in this situation so take this with a grain of salt, maybe it is better for couples who have fatal fetal anomalies to believe what the doctors say instead of hoping for a miracle. Sometimes, tragically, the doctors are right and things go wrong. People who have stories like that still deserve a place in the pro life cause where their stories can be shared.
Thanks for mentioning that, I completely agree. From the one side of the story we have, it does sound like they took a paternalistic tone and made assumptions about the patient's goals for the pregnancy (i.e., that she would do something differently depending on the result of the amniocentesis).  But like I said, that's just one side of the story.
Sorry to ask a difficult question, but as a pro-choice(r?), I don’t know what you guys think about this, and I’d like to ask what you guys would think about this.Of course, there are certain conditions, such as it would be an early abortion (eg before 10 wks or so), but if you’d like to discuss the conditions which you’d deem acceptable, that’s fine too.Thanks!Edit: Also, what would you think about an underage girl having an abortion? Would your opinion change if the birth could harm/kill her in the process?Again, sorry for asking difficult questions, I’d just like to find out more about what you guys think about these issues!
I understand it's tough for the woman, but the baby conceived in rape has just as much right to life as any other baby. I think the baby's right to life outweighs any other right at this point.
So would your solution to the problem be to put the baby up for adoption, perhaps? (If the woman doesn’t want the baby).
Yes, that's right.
Thank you! Have a good day!
You too
My mom was adopted for this very reason. Her birth mom was 13 and raped by her stepfather. I'm very glad my mom was put up for adoption instead of being killed.
Yes
To be clear, that's a solution to not wanting a baby.  However, it's not a solution to not wanting to be pregnant.
Abortion is not an acceptable solution to not wanting to be pregnant.
I understand that you don't accept it.  However, adoption is not a solution -- acceptable or otherwise -- to not wanting to be pregnant.
It is the only solution.  You are advocating death.  Nothing short of that. Abortion will always end in death and destruction for at least one person. Sometimes two.  How can you desire that outcome?  It's like saying suicide is the only remedy for severe depression, as if there were no other choice. No other way out.  It isn't a real choice. The remedy for pregnancy is nine months until a birth.  In the scheme of time, a person's lifetime,  it is miniscule.  And the psychological ramification exist no matter what a woman does.
Adoption in no way modifies whether or not somebody is pregnant. Adoption is a solution for being pregnant the same way an umbrella is a solution for being hungry.
You are not hearing me.  Pregnancy once acheived,  is a temporary state.  Just like most things, suffering comes and goes through out a lifetime.  You are speaking as if it is a burden eternal.  Why? The rape and the trauma will be with her much longer.  If she realizes the choice she made to kill her own child to some how mitigate a temporary state of being, then her sorrow will only be compounded.  Do you not see that?  I repeat, death is not a solution  to added trauma.   It will solve nothing.  Giving birth or miscarriage should be the only remedy for a temporary state.  Period.  Where is your heart for the child? Where is your compassion for innocent life.? You speak as if a woman's pregnancy is isolated only to the reluctant mother and that no other is affected.  Why do you blind yourself to this reality so willfully?
I am stating that adoption does not provide a solution to somebody not wanting to be pregnant (or, better phrased, continue a pregnancy). You are stating that this person does not need a solution to that problem. We are speaking at cross-purposes.
The solution is simple. Give birth.  Bam.  Not prego any more and no one dead.  Easy.
To that other person, pregnancy is not a problem. He or she thinks pregnancy is something you just deal with and can’t change, like being short or tall.
To say pregnancy is a temporary state is naive. Every woman I know who has been pregnant has had long term health issues following it. My mother has had prolapse repair surgery four times since the birth that caused it; every few years it fails again. Both grandmothers has the same problem. My friend has diabetes which started during pregnancy. My sister can't go on any long trips due to bladder control problems. None of these people had health issues before pregnancy, they're all normal weight and were active. Pregnancy permanently damages health, it's not a temporary inconvenience.
I should clarify.  I'm not saying being pregnant is like getting a cold.  I understand there can be problems.  But as many recover fully as don't.  If you have sex you are taking as risk getting pregnant.  If a woman is raped and a pregnancy results, it doesn't justify the permanent end to human life.  The rape also has long term phycological and physiological effects.  There is nothing that will truly heal, not even time.  Abortion doesn't solve the rape.  In fact it can make it worse.  There is no easy breezy solution to this horrible a situation.
Should a mother be allowed to kill her two year old because he was conceived in rape? Neither the crime of the father nor the mental anguish of the mother justify killing a child. Abortion is always murder, regardless of how the baby came into existence. It is still murdering a child who has a right to life. Our objective should always be to help, not harm both patients. If full term birth is going to be deadly, deliver the child early and employ all reasonable efforts to save the life of the premature child.
Welcome! Pro-choicers are always welcome here for discussion as long as it remains civil. Your question is a common one, and it's a sensitive subject for a lot of reasons. But to see it from a pro-lifer's perspective, it's important to remember that the unborn child--any unborn child--is still an individual human life, and to abort that fetus is to kill a human being. If you will, consider a situation where a woman who gets pregnant from rape decides to keep her baby and give birth. A month later, the mother changes her mind; seeing the baby and taking care of him every day reminds her of the rape, is still traumatic for her and incredibly difficult. Maybe even the adoption process is too painful and time-consuming for her to go through. I think most people would agree that killing the one-month-old at this point should be completely off the table. And for the people that believe killing this infant is wrong, they aren't disrespecting the woman or "forcing" her to deal with this problem. It's just that most would agree that the infant's life takes precedent over the adult's trauma in this case. Since the unborn is still a human, pro-lifers keep this same position, but pre-birth. Birth doesn't fundamentally change what a human IS, or its inherent value. This subject requires a lot of sensitivity though--obviously, rape is a horrible, traumatic experience that I wouldn't wish on my worst enemies. And pregnancy is certainly no picnic either. But I would be 100% for additional governmental support for cases like these, which means more taxpayer money going towards assisting pregnant women, and ideally faster trials/verdicts for rape cases (I realize some of this is optimistic). Above all else, though, we believe that the child shouldn't have to pay the ultimate price for the crimes of the father. In all these cases, adoption exists, so it's not like women have to be committed to being a parent before they're ready, so my answer remains the same for underage pregnancies, as difficult as they are. That said, if it actually does come down to a life-threatening situation, most pro-lifers agree that this is one case where a mother should be able to decide. But it's a bit different than abortion--in most of these scenarios, doctors would try to save both lives regardless; situations where actively killing the fetus is medically necessary (as opposed to just removing him/her and using life support, etc) are extremely rare. Hope this helps!
Thank you for being very civil and level-headed! I see now that the pro-lifers perspective is rather than prioritising the baby over the mother, it’s treating them equally in the sense that they both have the same right to life; but the woman is not forced to keep the baby, as it can be adopted. I’m questioning my stance on the issue now!
I'm glad this board helped you consider other perspectives. Thanks for keeping an open mind!
I,d like to ask you to be careful there, as not everything is black or white. Pro-life rules have killed several mothers and their unborn due to medical restrictions and slow legal reaction. They usually preffer to mend things by direct law force, instead of trying to cover the inmediate needs of the mothers or the causes for abortion. I know most of them does think about those things, but please get real, look for abortion restrictive countries and read real stories. They are bloody unfair. I agree that an unborn child shouldn,t pay for the mistakes of their fathers, but nobody talks about quality of life. Grey areas are real, and there,s people suffering dreadfully because people who got it easy preffer to pretend that universal solutions exists.PD: sorry for multiple, don,t know What happened
What pro-lifers "prefer" is not a single thing. I believe many of the pro-life laws on the books could be better and some of the rules would never even have been attempted if abortion was properly illegal to begin with. Some politicians push laws that are hardcore or less than optimal to signal to pro-life voters that they are "doing something".  While I appreciate their efforts, I like to remind people that the mother's life is equally important here as well. We want women to get health care that they need, as long as this does not require the child to be killed.  I tend to shy away from rules that exceed what we'd do if abortion was simply illegal, as it should be. As for quality of life, it is my considered opinion that I don't get to decide for someone what their quality of life needs to be for them to live.  Some people do have poor quality of life, but many do not.  This cannot be asserted for someone else before they even have a chance to speak for themselves. In short, quality of life is something we need to consider for people, but abortion is never a proper solution to poor quality of life.
Do you have examples of these women who are dying under pro-life policies? Also, what makes you think prolifers are people who "got it easy" in life? We know what suffering is like, we also know what's right and wrong. We don't want to end our own suffering by killing other innocent human beings.
Savita halappanavar was killed by the eighth amendment to the Irish constitution, which states that the unborn have equal right to life. It prevented her from getting proper treatment when she started to miscarry as the baby was still alive. Had she had exactly the same medical issue in England, which has no such "prolife" legislation, she would have immediately been given treatment to complete the miscarriage and not left to develop sepsis. https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Death_of_Savita_Halappanavar
She died of undetected sepsis as the result of an incomplete miscarriage. Its not abortion if shes miscarrying. This sounds like just everyday medical incompetence. In fact, Ireland has a very good record when it comes to pregnancy related deaths. Better, even, than a lot of countries with liberal abortion laws. Also, I've heard someone bring this case up before...so I am assuming this is the only one that anyone can show me? It also isnt really abortion related. Are there any more examples?
Ireland's "pro-life" legislation prevents treatment for miscarriage while the baby still has a heartbeat. This woman was killed by a law designed to prevent abortion.
Where does it say that? Abortion in Ireland is legal in the case of life threatening conditions.
In theory, yes, but legal penalties for abortion make doctors reluctant to act in anything but the most extreme emergency. That means patients not getting appropriate treatment until it's too late, and that, as demonstrated here, can be fatal.
Not in theory, in practice. The fact that it's the only example you have, and that the mortality rates reflect that it's not a problem.

Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Death_of_Savita_Halappanavar HelperBot v1.1 /r/HelperBot_ I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 176699
Death of Savita Halappanavar Savita Halappanavar, a 31-year-old dentist, originally from India, died on 28 October 2012 at University Hospital Galway in Ireland due to the complications of a septic miscarriage at 17 weeks' gestation. The miscarriage took seven days to unfold, and early in the process, when it was clear that the miscarriage was inevitable, Halappanavar requested an abortion. At that time the medical team had not diagnosed her with a blood infection, and her request was denied because the medical team did not judge that her life was in danger. The medical team eventually did diagnose the sepsis and began trying to treat it, and when they determined that Halappanavar's life was in danger they had planned to administer misoprostol to induce delivery, but the miscarriage completed before they were able to. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
Actually the majority of pro-lifers support the rape exception.
Whoops, that should definitely read "some pro-lifers keep..."
Rape is horrible, and no woman should ever have to be subject to it. However, if it results in pregnancy, that baby is a human with the right to life. It's not fair to kill the baby because of someone else's crime. Thus, abortion is still immoral in this case. If the woman does not want to or cannot raise the child, she should put the child up for adoption.
It's not about turning a human being into a punishment for having sex, it's about human beings having the right to continue living
I am pro-life because I genuinely believe that at conception a new and unique human being is created.  This life, this particular DNA sequence and all it implies, is one that has never existed before, and if we end it, will not exist again (unless there was some science fiction level cloning going on!) If we start from this particular starting point, that the individual at conception is as much a unique human person as they will be at any other point in their development, then I think one way of tackling tough to decipher situations like that is to imagine the same situation with an older child.For example, if a woman was raped but wasn’t sure whether the pregnancy was from the rape or from her husband or if she was date raped while unconscious and didn’t realize. In either of these examples, if a paternity test were done later and we discovered that the child was the product of rape when he/she was 2 years old, would terminating that child’s life be acceptable? And under what conditions? While I know there are some who would suggest the euthanasia of a sufficiently young infant would be acceptable to them, I know that for myself the answer would be that there is no circumstances in which killing this child would be ok with me. To be internally consistent with integrity, given my “what if the child were older” test, I would have to say that if the woman did not want her child, either during the pregnancy or whenever she found out his/her parentage, then the only recourse I would see would be to give the child up for adoption. Applying the same “what if the child were older” test to your second question: What if there were two children, and the life of one was in danger because of the proximity of the other one to her?   If both children were older, we would try to figure out a way to separate them in which both would live, and failing that, we would try our very best to do as little damage as possible to the child who is causing the damage to the other child, while still ensuring that we protect the one who is in danger.  And if this cost the aggressor their life, we would see it as an unavoidable tragedy. Translated to the scenario of a child who is pregnant, I think this suggests to me that we should work with medical professionals to try to give both the baby and young mother the best chance each has.  I’m not a medical professional, so take my ideas with a grain of salt, but maybe this might look like an early delivery even knowing the premie of only a few weeks development pretty much definitely won’t make it; or maybe it would be to let the baby develop a little longer and do a C-section?  What I think is important, is that whatever is done, the death of the infant is seen as the tragedy it is, and that two childrens’ lives have been forever altered by the act of violence that caused that pregnancy.
If I were pregnant as a result of rape, if I were not able to raise the child myself I would give him or her up for adoption.
2 wrongs ≠ a right.
My opinion on her is irrelevant. I am not here to judge her or her situation. However, it is tragic that in this scenario two (2) people had their rights violated, the women for being sexually assaulted and her child for losing his or her life. If I knew a women aborted a child after rape, I would only be able to love and comfort her at that point. Both are traumatic experiences to go through. If it was before she decided on an abortion, I would offer resources on both seeking justice and parenting or adoption. I would never be able to support the death of the embryo/fetus because of the crimes of his/her father. If she was very young and her life was threatened, there is no reason to lose two lives when one can be saved.
I remember reading some testimonies from women who had been raped (some as young as thirteen by their own relatives) who ended up going to term with their children and were grateful for it. Some gave them up to adoption, but some others decided to keep them. Still others who went with abortion claimed to feel even worse. Unfortunately, I read these testimonies a year or two ago and I couldn't find them anymore. I did end up finding a woman on Youtube called  Jennifer Christie Brierley who seems to be out there trying to help women who had been raped and was a victim herself. She gave birth to a son through rape and she argues that her child helped her. Here. Personally, I don't believe any woman should have an abortion unless there is some kind of serious risk involved for her and/or the baby. The egg getting fertilized in the tube is one such example. There are many programs out there to help mothers who are struggling financially and plenty of organizations willing to give away whole bedroom sets for the baby along with toys and clothes. Then there is obviously the adoption route that a mother can choose to go on if she really, really doesn't want the child. I don't think abortion should be such a ready option. Even a baby at 10 weeks old already has eyes and fingers.
In this instance, My moral issue with abortion is outweighed by the harm it would cause a woman to be forced to carry and raise the baby arising from something as traumatic as a rape. I think the pro life movement can be nuanced and avoid dogmatism in this area. That being said I think the right answer is to give women a Plan B pill when they go to report the rape.
I don't know, is Plan B a contraceptive? I thought there was no real evidence whether it stops the release of the egg, or stops the implantation of the zygote.
It's a contraceptive; it is a high-dose version of the regular pill, and it prevents ovulation.
Huh, TIL.
I care less about that technicality tbh
Well, if conception has already happened, then it's essentially an abortive pill; it kills the zygote.
I agree for the most part, I also think abortion could be acceptable in cases of rape and also in cases of medical complications that may permanently injure or kill the mother. I think that’d be a good compromise between the pro life and pro choice sides.  If we’re getting rid of the 90% of abortions done on young women who are simply inconvenienced for 9 months, then that would be a huge step. Edit: reading more comments I wanted to add that I agree with the whole “responsibility comes from the decision to have sex”. If a young woman is fooling around willingly and gets pregnant, I think she should be responsible for that life and carry it to term, then putting it up for adoption.  In the case of rape where she did not agree to shoulder the responsibility that having sex can bring, she shouldn’t be forced to deliver the child, and the earlier the abortion the better.
I don't get pro-lifers who aren't pro-life in the case of conception via rape. What about being conceived via rape makes that fetus any less alive or any less human? It's hypocritical, pure political compromise BS. Conception via rape should be no different than conception via consensual sex or any other circumstances surrounding conception as far as the abortion discussion goes, because it is about protecting the lives of the innocent unborn, not about under which circumstances a woman "deserves" to get an abortion.
I don't agree with the rape exception but I understand the logic behind it. If you believe that consent to an action is necessary for taking responsibility of the consequences then it can be argued that because consent was not given the mother has no parental obligation. Just thought this might be helpful.
Does the right to life of the unborn child depend on the consent of the mother and father? How is this argument different than the argument to bodily autonomy that pro-choicers use for all pregnancies?
It’s not different. The difference is that the parents obligation overrides their right to bodily autonomy. Think about the violinist argument, it’s a lot harder to deal with when you can not appeal to the relationship of the baby and the mother as parent and child. Usually this relationship comes with obligations because the parents engaged in an action that resulted in the consequences of creating another life, the baby. Look I’m not saying I agree because I actually don’t agree with a rape exception. I am saying that I’m not sure that appealing to the right to life is necessarily strong enough in this case. I think there is more to it.
Right to life (RTL) and bodily autonomy (BA) are rights that weigh against each other. It's not a matter of one existing or not existing; they both exist, but different circumstances can make one weigh stronger than the other. BA > RTL in almost every circumstance we can conceive of. But pro-lifers like myself see consent to sex, and therefore consent to the risk of creating a uniquely bodily-dependent human being whose life depends on that bodily connection (knowledge of this exists before sex), as an effective waiving of the BA justification. Responsibility for the creation and unique dependence of a needy human being should negate BA rights in this circumstance. But to respond to your second question, the argument for the rape exception using bodily autonomy is no different than the one pro-choicers use for all pregnancies, except pro-lifers believe consensual sex is an exception to the rule due to the responsibility issue.
I understand and agree the right to bodily autonomy exists alongside the right to life, but I guess I would disagree that the right to bodily autonomy overrides the right to life in the case of pregnancy or the right to life.
That's fair. Personally I don't think pregnancy resulting from rape would be any different than, say, you hooking me up to some unconscious person and then saying "ha, now that you're connected, you cannot disconnect since the unconscious person will die without your bodily fluids." I'm not responsible for their needy condition and I should have a right to disconnect, regardless of how innocent the needy person is or that they'll die without my bodily fluids.
What about the case of conjoined twins? Neither choose to be connected.
I mean either they're dependent on each other and can't disconnect or they're not and disconnection would have acceptable outcomes, right? What situation were you envisioning?
I guess I was thinking more of a situation where one was dependent on the other for s short time (say 7-9 months ). I’m on mobile. I will provide more details later. But basic question doesn’t it see more reasonable that they wait the 7-9 months to separate to ensure the safety of the dependent sibling?
Morally, sure. Legally? I don't think it's so clear.
To me the abortion debate has nothing to do with rewarding responsibility or punishing irresponsibility, it is solely about the rights of unborn persons, specifically their right to life, which absolutely should not be conditional on the actions or responsibility or lack thereof of their parents. IMHO if this whole thing is about rewarding responsibility or punishing irresponsibility to you, you can go and shove it. I don't give a damn what you have to say about this. People who want to micromanage the lives of others and don't actually believe the unborn have rights but just want to use this issue to push their agenda are detestable.
Well in case you didn’t notice I said I don’t actually believe in a rape exception but I don’t think your argument against it is a very good one. It’s a much tricker question to deal with and I think it deserves a better analysis and a better answer. It’s not about reward or punishment. It’s more about following trends in current law. If I accidentally smash a window with my baseball I pay for the damages. If someone forces my hand then they pay for the damages. The only way around the issue is to appeal to the innocence of the child, the negative right to life they have and the duty we have to the vulnerable. But it’s a more complex piece of the prolife movement that needs addressing.
THANK YOU
If a woman is raped, or even gang raped (which is what happens to women in war-time situations), I don't think that the rapists should be rewarded with passing on their genetic material.  I know the unborn is an innocent, but the father is not. Early abortion or Plan B should be a legal option for that situation.   I am against "elective" abortions for no reason, but not wanting to carry your rapist's baby seems like a legitimate reason to consider abortion.
The unborn is innocent, so why should (s)he be killed just to spite the father?
Agreed. It's chilling to hear that certain people described as "genetic material" that needs to be eliminated to prevent rewarding rapists. Seriously WTF.
It's infuriating, because that's exactly the kind of dehumanization tactic that pro-choicers use.
At some point we all start as genetic material.  Science.
In the early 1970's there was a young Canadian who went to a Disco in Detroit.  She was driving home by herself and she got a flat tire.  A good Samaritan tries to help her, but before he is able to change the tire another van pulls up and knocks out the Good Samaritan and throws her in a van. She was taken to a house where she was  beaten and raped orally, vaginally and anally for several days by 5 men.   She thought she was going to die.   They talked about ways that they are going to kill her and dump her body right in front of her. She then trys to appeal to the main leader and make him think that she is enjoying the rapings and that she really loves him,  she try to make him think that she wanted to be his girlfriend. Eventually, they let her go. You think that she should be forced to continue the pregnancy from that situation?  I see a woman taking her life if she had no other options.
Anecdotal.  A horrible and moving story that tears the heart apart, no doubt.  And yet... One evil cannot justify another.  That is a universal human truth.  If the child was evil, or if the child was killing her I would have no qualms.  But a child is always innocent and deserves to have his or her human right to life preserved, no matter the horrible circumstance in which it came into existence.  You are being logically inconsistent.  Innocent life is either sacred all of the time or none of the time.
No, you see, I'm not pro-life due to religion.  I'm not religious AT ALL, in fact, so I don't see all life as innocent.  All life isn't innocent if you look at in the fact that it's the direct result of a brutal, painful scarring crime that will probably have a lifetime affect on the victim. Morally to me, before a certain point, that unborn human doesn't deserve a chance at life, it's life should not be preserved at the expense of the mother. Not all life is "sacred" to me.   When you start imposing YOUR religious views on to other people's bodies, is when you and the movement lose your argument.   The movement protesting and standing against rape exceptions is why the whole movement looks like religious fruitcakes and why people fight you so hard. I think most people want reasonable rules and reasonable exceptions.
I can see how you derived religious overtones from my comment.  But that's not what I really meant. Why?  How is an unborn essentially different for a born person?  The only distinction is that they need their mother to survive, though it can argued that an infant needs a protector for years after birth.  Of course he/she deserves life.  How can you claim that? Who gave you the authority to determine that? That is not enough to persuade me or many thousands of others.  Your morality should play no part, neither should mine.  When I say innocent what I mean is that having committed no action deserving of death.  It can be argued that a murderer or rapist deserves death if they egregiously injure or kill.  But what crime has a fetus committed?....merely existing does not qualify.  It is unjust for you to claim otherwise. You just imposed your morality by claiming that new life is not innocent and that the unborn don't automatically deserve the right to life. So who's morality are we using? Yours or mine? How about neither?  What if we look at the science and the basic human rights we enjoy in Western society?  A fetus is human, humans have basic rights. You speak about religious friucakes ruining the anti abortion cause.  That could be true in part but you assumed a lot in my comments that I wasn't really implying because it seems you are overly sensitive to religion.  I agree with you that only arguing from a religious world view is limiting, but I don't appreciate you simplifying my response to only that. If you believe in basic human freedoms that most societies embrace then you should have no problem in admitting that all humans have the right to life if they have committed no heinous act, no matter what circumstances brought them into existence.  Would it not be inconsistent to believe otherwise.  It's a logical fallacy.  A child is innocent of any crime that would induce his or her violent and purposeful end, i.e.abortion.  If my daughter was raped and a pregnancy came about I would no doubt be tempted, but it would be wrong.  It would be based on emotional trauma.  And how ever much I wanted to help my daughter the law has a duty to protect the rights of the child and it should supercede my initial call to action.  That is why we have law.  But the law fails the unborn.
I'm not getting in to all that you wrote.  You say "If your daughter was raped you would be tempted (I assume to want her or let her get an abortion)..... this is where I say "IT'S NOT YOUR CHOICE.  IT SHOULDN'T BE ANYONE'S CHOICE OTHER THAN THE PREGNANT PERSON ABOUT THIS PARTICULAR SITUATION". Some women can handle having and raising a rape baby.  Others can handle having it and giving it up.  Others that can't do either of those things emotionally should be given an option other than suicide. The lives of BOTH mother and child need to be considered.
But the mothers isn't being ended.  That's the difference.  How does it justify the killing?  Why can no one answered that? Great suffering in no way justifies killing someone who did nothing wrong! Death is final. Rape though horrid and extremely difficult is survivable.  Abortion always ends in death.
Hey, Habipti, just a quick heads-up:supercede is actually spelled supersede. You can remember it by ends with -sede.Have a nice day! The parent commenter can reply with 'delete' to delete this comment.
That is one of the most dehumanizing and chilling things I've ever read.
And yet true.  A rapist should not get to force himself on a woman and then be rewarded with an offspring.  Not having exceptions for abortion for things like rape, incest and birth defects are why so many people consider themselves to be Pro-choice.
You speak of passing on our genetic code as though it were the reason for our existence, and is thus a reward in and of itself. We do not kill people to punish others.
More understandable than the normal abortion reason, just like I can understand more why a guy may maim someone who mocked his disabled son. Still immoral. Same basic reply. Lessened culpability, still wrong. Yep, but it's still wrong, and all should be done to save both lives.
For me I think that, in this case, the Woman herself should be able to decide, whether or not to keep the child.
I think the obligation to carry a child is incurred through consent to intercourse, and the knowledge that that act could result in conception. With rape, of course, the intercourse isn't consensual, so that obligation isn't incurred, and termination of the pregnancy would be acceptable, but I also believe that the rape would have to be report at the time of occuracnce, not 6 weeks later, and that attempts would have to be made to apprehend the rapist so he can't commit the same crimes to someone else.   At the time the crime is reported the woman would be checked by a Dr. to confirm she wasn't already further along, and given Plan B.  If that didn't work then an abortion would be justified.  Though I also believe that killing the child will not help the woman heal from the trauma of the crime, and will likely be traumatic itself, though many women seem to have no problem killing their children. Abortion for that reason, and for problems with the child in utero, are such microscopically small percentages of the reasons women have abortions, it's almost not worth worrying about.  It's like a innocent person being sentenced to prison.  Yes, it happens, Yes, it's bad when it does, but all in all the system works fairly well, and better than most alternatives.
Bodily autonomy in most circumstances outweighs the right to life of a needy person and I generally support that. Pregnancy resulting from consensual sex is pretty different in terms of knowledge and level of responsibility. Here is a write-up of the stance ("Misconceptions About the Rape Exception").
[removed]
Come on man, let’s be civil.

X-post from /r/China .
I've never understood how so many people who consider themselves to be hardcore feminists can also be "pro choice" when abortion is used by many as a tool to ensure that only male children are born. Abortion is misogynistic.
Same reason they protest "slut shaming" at western universities but not child marriage at mosques. Feminists, like most people, say what is safe for themselves. It's never been about helping the women in the worst danger.
I'm not thrilled at the idea of choosing a sex for your baby but I would prefer that to sex-selective abortions. I'll never understand why women are okay with abortions because so many abortions are based on killing your unborn baby simply because she's a female.
I mean, I don't want abortions, but these countries are also starting to have problems with a lack of females from any cause. Being sex selective in this manner is something that needs to be stamped out, period.  The fact that they use abortion for it just makes it even more horrifying. Having multiple males for every female for them is a great way to generate unrest among young men, who are frankly the most prone to anger about not having a mate.  This can cause explosions of violence and anti-social behavior and may well be a reason for current attitudes in places like the Middle East where young men are angry and women are given away to fighters as prizes.
No you're definitely right.  The one-child rule in China was always a terrible idea because of the reasons you mentioned.
Being a bit despicable here: girls cost more and can't be easily used as "pack donkeys" compared to boys. Strangely speaking, the male disposability as adults implies female disposability as unborns in these countries. It is very sad...
Remember to mention to people that if they believe in a strict unnuanced pro-choice viewpoint that they’re also pro-sex selective abortion
Are they determining the sex prior to implantation?  If so, I’m not sure how I feel about this.  On the one hand, it’s kind of horrifying to test women out of existence.  On the other hand, isn’t it better to avoid creating a girl if they’re just going to be murdered anyway? If they’re determine sex after implantation, then that’s just abortion anyway, no matter how far along the pregnancy is.
Selecting based on sex is just front-loading the abortions.
I'm not sure what you mean.  I guess in part, it comes down to how I perceive fertilized eggs that are just sitting in a test tube somewhere.  Are those fertilized eggs human?  If so, what about all the fertility clinics that dispose of excess fertilized eggs?  Are they committing wholesale slaughter?  I'm not sure I think so. I think the difference is, what happens if you do nothing?  If you do nothing to a pregnancy, a baby will be born.  If you do nothing to a fertilized egg in a test tube, it will remain a fertilized egg in a test tube. I suppose that means I believe that life begins at implantation, not at conception.
If they're determining it before, it's still abortion too. The only ethical way to do it would be find out exactly how to "disengage" the sperms carrying the sex chromosome you don't want
How ironic it is! The real true feminicide - murdering a woman because she is woman - is fully supported by the most vocal and heinous "women's rights activists"!
Its already possible with ivf, called PGD, or Preimplantation Genetic Diagnosis. Usually used to choose the healthiest one to implant. From my understanding people rarely use it for gender selection, although it is definitely controversial, especially with countries like China.
You're still killing the embryos you don't like with that type of ivf.
Of course, Im just saying the technology is already there. Sad truth that many babies never get implanted or are simply destroyed and are lost in the IVF process. Since IVF is so expensive, its usually only for couples who want at least one baby, so they aren't doing it as a gender selection. However, wealthy couples, especially in countries like China, will use the technology to select the gender. As technology get better with genetics, eugenic based IVF may become a norm ..
In our post-modern world, shouldn't they just raise the child as genderless regardless of the sex?
I don't think those considerations really have any impact on places like China and India, where the problem is greatest.  They're not exactly SJWs over there.  Their use of abortion is more purely a case of human life being a commodity in those places and seen as a means to an end.  They don't even pretend it is about "women's rights".
They don't play those games.

Even the some of the biggest victories on other issues pale in comparison to the smallest pro-life victory. If you convince even one mother to not kill her child, you just saved someone's entire life.  That's huge.
Even just one life saved is indeed a huge impact for that individual.
I needed to hear this today. You never know when you’re gonna get hit with that feeling of sorrow and dread about the momentum of de-humanizing ideologies... it hit me while walking into a Kohl’s of all things, after hearing NPR chat about abortion as “engaging in family planning.” Thank you for posting.
Thanks. It's a nice quote to remember when things seem bleak.

I thought that Planned Parenthood could not use their funding for abortions. What does stopping their funding accomplish?
The Hyde Amendment is supposed to stop that, but the fact of the matter is that it's very difficult to actually put that into effect. To put it one way, consider if PP had $10 in their pocket to pay overhead. The government gives them another $10, and says they can use it to cover the bills, but not abortions. PP then uses THAT $10 to cover the bills their existing money already would've covered, which would free up that money to pay for abortions. In short, money is fungible and can easily be shuffled around to exploit loopholes in budgets. In addition, even with the Hyde Amendment in place, a full 17 states in the US still can use taxpayer money directly for abortion via Medicaid: https://www.guttmacher.org/state-policy/explore/state-funding-abortion-under-medicaid
Ok, that makes a lot of sense. Thanks!
This won't happen. The GOP wants to use this as an election talking point and inevitably do nothing about it to complain about it again during the next election cycle. :/
I’m a bigot, idiot, ignorant, and anti woman.Good to know, lol
Even if someone is pro-choice they shouldn't be supporting Planned Parenthood. That company was built on evil and racist intentions but nobody seems to care about that because they cater to their agenda right now
I simply said “I do not support PP.” It was on the PP Facebook page. They are trying to bring awareness to supporting Black women. I said I wasn’t going to support an organization that was created to rid of my people.  A lot of other Black girls were saying the same. And of course, it was a bunch of White women saying I was wrong. Then they started talking about how low income women depended on them for birth control and Pap smears. And I’m like its not the only place that caters to that demographic. When I didn’t backdown, they started name calling. Like it’s not that fucking serious, lol. Anyway, I refuse to support PP. Save the babies!!!
Well, to be fair, you were on their Facebook page.  That would be like someone who had an abortion coming here and being surprised at being told she murdered her child.
Yeah. But I thought it’d be civil, lol. I’m not really shocked though. I knew I’d probably be met with resistance.

Lol, I respectfully stated my opposition. It’s America, I’m free to do so. But here you are name calling and being intolerant. Sir or ma’am, I am not here for that. I am above that. So again, please go away.
Sure, I will. God can turn water into wine. I was also pro-life for several years before I believed in God.
Well, if you believe that, you simply have the mentality of a child. The delusion is great with you people. Re-read what you just wrote. That is simply stupid.
What do you tell atheist and secular prolifers?
Their reasons for being prolifers seem to be more rational, to an extent. It's more about scientific, ethical or safety reasons. It's not about some ancient scriptures written by sheppards and the belief that an all-powerful bearded man in the sky would be offended by abortion. In this latter case, a debate is impossible because the delusion is too powerful.
To which extent would that be, and at what point do you think I'm insane? But there are pro-choice Christians, Muslims(I was), Jews, etc, which suggests that some religious people are not pro-life because of religion. So why the insults?
Someone once told me that I was a misogynist, and when I informed them that I was a woman, they said that it's possible that I have subconscious misogyny drilled into me by my religion. I then informed them that I wasn't raised religiously, nor am I currently religious. He then said society must have done it to me or something. For some reason I had to hate women without realizing it. I'm sure they were applying that same logic to you. "Don't you know that you have repressed black hatred, and as a white person I am certainly allowed to say that." Yeah, fuck that lol Edit a letter
So why are you against abortion? I'm honestly curious.
...because abortion kills an innocent human being. I believe in equal rights for everyone, and I don't believe that we have the right to end the life of another human for our own comfort, especially when they were created willingly. I don't believe that it's possible, for the first time in  human history, we are finally justified in treating one group of humans differently than another. It has never been ok, and it never will be ok. We are ashamed that our country was built on the backs of slaves, and it is my hope that we will be just as ashamed, looking back, that our "freedom" was built on the deaths of millions of unborn children. It is also insulting to the people who are actually not free to say that "we aren't free unless we have the uninterrupted right to also kill our children."
The problem with that line of logic is that it doesn't actually kill any baby. It removes some cells without consciousness. The problem with pro-life people is that they don't seem to know a lot about science and micro-biology, so they keep talking about "killing babies" and spouting bullshit facts. It is hard to take them seriously then.
That literally makes no sense though. As far as embryology is concerned, it is a whole human being from conception, with self directed development, requiring no external input to grow into an healthy human adult. This is an undisputed fact among literally everyone, pro-life and pro-choice. The difference between cellular life and a whole organism is that while a cell can be alive, a "clump of cells" cannot act in a coordinated manner. Dr. Maureen Condic, professor of neurobiology and anatomy at the university of Utah states that this "clump of cells" is "a living creature with all the properties that define any organism as distinct from a group of cells; embryos are capable of growing, maturing, maintaining a physiologic balance between various organ systems, adapting to changing circumstances, and repairing injury. Mere groups of human cells do nothing like this under any circumstances." This is established science. So please tell me more about how they are clumps of cells. Edit: also, I would advise you to adopt a bodily autonomy type argument, which is much stronger than a denying-science argument. There are two main types, right to refuse and sovereign zone. Look them up and decide which gels more with you so you can make a better argument next time! Hope this helps.
(Not who you replied to) The problem here is that you are identifying why the fetus/embryo is a human, but not that it has any of the morally relevant characteristics that make humans special. The poster above got it right by identify consciousness as being significant. Obviously the thing that gives clumps of matter any experience at all is going to be important in determining their moral worth. A bodily autonomy argument is strong enough to say that abortion should be legal, but not to deny that it is immoral. The best route to argue for the pro-choice position is the latter. Fetuses are not persons, and therefor it is of no harm to kill them.
I chose my arguments specifically because the person seemed to be denying its humanness, not its moral value. Abortion does not simply "remove cells" which is what I clarified. Why consciousness is the determining factor is for you to prove. It is an arbitrary trait. Humans are valuable for what they are, not the traits they possess. An embryo has the unrealized capacity for consciousness, a clump of cells has no such capacity. Personhood is not granted because someone can immediately exercise their capacities, but simply because they possess the capacity to do so. To draw an arbitrary line at something that person can lose or gain during their lifetimes would be to say that a person can lose or gain their moral value during their lifetime. Why consciousness? Because its the one thing you can definitely say an embryo does not have? What is your basis for determining that? A person who is dead is not conscious, obviously, so an embryo must not be alive either! Is that your line of thinking? Someone who is dead is no longer an organism with any of the capacities an embryo has. You decided consciousness was the dividing line, but there is no factual basis to use that as your determining factor.
... Interesting that you opened by saying the burden is on me, but then completely begging the question in your next sentence. On what basis are humans valuable? I think consciousness is obviously going to be underlying your answer. A rock clearly has no moral value because it has no subjective experiences. Many organisms do, and therefore they can feel pain, and many other sensations. This is where morality comes from, because there are beings who can experience things. Do you agree? We can get away from consciousness being "the line" but can you agree that it is necessary for us talking about morality at all? Talking at all? Our consciousness comes from an activity in our brains. We know that certain fetuses/embryos are not developed enough to have any activity in their brain. So we know they are not conscious. I don't really understand what you are saying here. Clearly someone who is dead no longer should be our moral concern.... right?
People like to make the claim that, since we can't tell when something is alive, but we know when something dies, whatever that dead person is lacking must be what it means to be alive. Again, I wasn't making a moral argument in the first place, but you made a definitive statement about consciousness being correct. For what reason, you've yet to say. It is true that some things without consciousness have no moral value, but why does that mean that everything without consciousness has no moral value? I think we would both agree that humans outside of the womb are valuable for what they are and not what they can do, which is why we don't decide human rights on anything other than being human. Which is why it is not begging the question. It's an observation of reality. I extend that to the time someone becomes a human being. For whatever reason, you (a generally term,  not you specifically) have decided that outside the womb, everyone deserves human rights based on their humanness and not their current level of consciousness, but prior to that, they must be judged that way. Why? What is so important about consciousness? People in a persistent or temporary vegetative state are currently not able to exercise their capacity for consciousness, sleeping people are not currently able to exercise their capacity for consciousness, an embryo is currently not able to exercise its capacity for consciousness. Why are only two of those valuable if they all fail your criteria? A rock will never have the capacity for consciousness, that's why it lacks moral value. A rock has an IQ lower than 100, obviously. So today I believe everyone and everything with an IQ lower than 100 has no moral value. If I get enough people to agree with me, is it going to be morally permissible to abort them, despite their level of development? A lot of people are gonna end up dead. Again, it's a reality that people are valuable because they are human....outside the womb. Why does the criteria change just because they happen to be inside it? Your reasoning isnt based on any established fact. It's an ad hoc justification for a belief you already hold, which is that it's morally permissible to abort preborn humans.
I think "we" are wrong to decide that. "Human" is the truly arbitrary line here. What is it about humans that make them valuable? Tell me what characteristics? If we found another species on mars that looked and acted just like humans, but weren't, would they have human rights? Why/why not? This is just so clear though. The ability to have subjective experience is the only thing that matters. Without that, everything is just cosmic dust. A person who is sleeping is a person. They have desires, dreams, hopes for the future, and an idea of themselves as a being that exists throughout time. You said it yourself, they are "not currently able to exercise their capacity for consciousness". But they do have that capacity and all of the relevant desires and experiences that come with it. No. An embryo does not have that capacity. It will develop into a being that does, but it does not. I could bring into existence (if I had godlike powers) 100 billion embryos and then kill them all a day later. In that scenario, no morally relevant people were harmed. No one experienced anything at all. I don't think popular opinion determines what is right. This is a strawman. I don't believe any of that. I don't think birth holds any morally relevant weight. It has to do with the qualities of the fetus.

Hey, negative_zone, just a quick heads-up:therefor is actually spelled therefore. You can remember it by ends with -fore.Have a nice day! The parent commenter can reply with 'delete' to delete this comment.
Good bot
Thank you, negative_zone, for voting on CommonMisspellingBot. This bot wants to find the best and worst bots on Reddit. You can view results here. Even if I don't reply to your comment, I'm still listening for votes. Check the webpage to see if your vote registered!

Nope! I’m Black, so they couldn’t pull the race card 😂
Well you might not be racist, but you're still an evil Uncle Tom who wants to deprive these poor black women of their vital reproductive health care that ONLY Planned Parenthood can provide! Margret Sanger being an anti-black eugenicist that saw PP as a vital resource in exterminating blacks is just EVIL ANTI-CHOICE REPUBLICAN LIES!!! /s
But you disagreed with the narrative so now you're "in the Sunken Place".
... what even is a ‘sunken place?’ Who comes up with this stuff !?
It's a reference to the movie Get Out and using it this way shows how little people actually understood about the movie.
In that they use it as a generic 'your thoughts are bad' phrase, rather than using it as shown in the movie?
I'm  just surprised they didn't accuse you of being self-hating.
Sounds like an app I have! r/sjwhate
Just like how you love terrorism and hate America if you are against bombing the Middle East.
or that you must be liberal and have a record if you think the police are corrupt
Devils Advocate here..... Planned Parenthood offices near college campuses DO A LOT MORE THAN ABORTIONS and your numbers are not factual.   Sorry, they aren't.  Any more than Pro Choice people's statistics aren't right when they are spouting their propaganda on the other side. I have been a user of Planned Parenthood for over 25 years when I didn't have any insurance and needed NOT AN ABORTION, but free or low cost birth control so that I didn't have an unintended pregnancy.   I have used them FOR CANCER SCREENINGS--- that you guys say doesn't happen, well, when they do pap smears, yes it does.   For many years this was the only place I would get that done. STD testing as well.  Many lives are SAVED by Planned Parenthood with cancer screenings and STD testing.  Many abortions are averted by stopping the pregnancies in the first place. Oh, and when I was a SINGLE PREGNANT TEEN that walked in to Planned Parenthood for the first time, they did not pressure me in to a damned thing.   I said the magic words of "I'm keeping it", and they were very helpful in getting me set up with the appropriate OB/GYN. The bottom line is that they don't do abortions on women who don't want abortions.  The women getting their babies murdered are the ones that want them murdered. And to those that think Planned Parenthood is just "doing it for the sweet sweet abortion money".... again, not true.  Many of these are low income women.   My friend got an abortion probably 3-4 years ago now.  She couldn't afford the $400 so they had a grant that allowed her to get it done for nearly FREE-- and what medical procedure can you get done for $400????? It was twice that for me to get a mole removed, let alone a baby. The simple fact is that these women don't feel that a life is a life until it's viable and out of the mother.  Until then it's nothing more than an unwanted parasite.
Sorry, I still will not support them. As I tell everyone else, I know what they do. If the supporters want to support, I am not stopping anybody from doing so. Or calling them names. I just don’t think calling people idiots and bigots because they don’t want to is cool.
No problem with PP if they didn't both perform abortions and promote pro-abortion causes. I mean, I'm sure there are hospitals which might do abortions, but that's because it is legal and "a medical procedure", but they aren't out there trying to prevent abortions from being stopped.  I wouldn't consider them an advocacy group for the practice, but PP definitely is one.
I would support them if they didn’t offer abortions.  Usually I find those who are against them are against the abortions, not necessarily PP itself. There’s no arguing that low cost healthcare for women is a wonderful thing, but they are also the #1 abortion provider in the United States. I can see why people support PP, but if we believe that abortion does kill a human being, then it’s equivalent to saying “well I think this murderer is a swell guy because he helped out a bunch of people in his hometown, who cares if he killed a couple of people.” I would love if PP would consent to purely being a women’s healthcare center without offering abortions. I’m not seeking to have them all shut down. They can help women in so many ways, as you say, they don’t need to offer abortion.
This!!! They help with STD testing, cancer screenings, that’s awesome. But it doesn’t change that it’s still an abortion clinic. I feel as a Christian, the Creator is the only one has the power to give and take life. I’m also against the death penalty. A lot of pro-life people feel the same. But to a lot of pro-choice people, it’s all or nothing. I’ve always been good about agreeing to disagree. I just wish we could without attacking character.

Go away, lol

Sigh. If it helps you sleep at night to be angry, go ahead. But just know I’m unbothered and I’m laughing at you. Good day!

I’m going to pray for you. Again, good day.


Wow .. what great people helping to murder an innocent child. You are not fooling anyone, not even yourself. A baby doesn't become instantly human when it passes through the birth canal. It is a unique human being in every way at conception, it just cannot defend itself from being murdered by monsters like yourself. But we can.
See that's where you are wrong and assuming.  I'm prolife.  I didn't say that I think that unborn babies are parasites--- but that just proves that Planned Parenthood IS ABOUT MORE THAN JUST ABORTIONS... believe it or not, and frankly it seems like most prolife people just don't want to believe the facts about Planned Parenthood.
I mean, there are other organizations that do these things.  The defining factor of PP is their killing of children and their promotion of the practice. As I have said before, no one is in favor of defunding PP because they do mammograms.
I know what you're getting at with your last sentence, but it's interesting that you picked that as your example, because PP actually doesn't do mammograms at all. They can only refer patients to clinics that do perform them. https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/fact-checker/wp/2015/10/02/the-repeated-misleading-claim-that-planned-parenthood-provides-mammograms/?noredirect=on&utm_term=.18f2a18cb643 And yeah, if PP dropped abortions, pro-lifers wouldn't care about defunding them. It seems like a good deal on their end, too--just dropping """3%""" (right?) of all their services means a guaranteed half-a-billion a year from the government? Sounds like a good deal to me!
I admit that I pulled that one out of my ass, it was mostly to get across the point that I know that they do things that I would actually agree really are women's health services. It's just that they also kill innocent human beings.  It's really hard to overlook that little detail.
Right, I definitely agree there.
I get it. A lot of people know their facts about PP.  My pro-life aunt used it back in the day and she did say it helped her out. However, she was an devout Christian and still had her reservations. It’s great that you are giving facts to people who may think it’s all a butcher shop.

When Trump cleans up the federal courts more of these laws will pass. No point passing them if Obama's crony judges strike them down 15 hours after they're enacted?
Shoutout to my fellow pro-life Louisianians. I hope that if it reaches Governor Edwards--a pro-life democrat that I voted for--he does the right thing.

Is there any information around what the fines are for? Were they providing low quality care? Unsafe practices? Just curious what happened as this article does not provide anything.
I found an older article talking about what I believe is the same clinic: http://www.dispatch.com/news/20170911/possible-perforated-bowel-leads-to-proposed-40000-fine-of-abortion-clinic
TIL the word "abortuary." I kind of like it.
It's a good one, and accurate, for sure.
And guess who is paying for the fine?  Is it out of their personal pockets?  NO!  It's us.  What a surprise.  This changes jack.
"The Government has found Government wrongdoing and has fined the taxpayers." Corporations and government were created specifically to shirk personal responsibility for your actions, its sad we accept this.

Seriously, how absolutely foolish do you have to be to go after nuns who take care of elderly, poverty stricken people, regardless of religious affiliation. Pontius Pilate foolish - that's about the right level.
But what if a nun or an old man she was taking care of wanted to take plan b???
I'm assuming you left off a /s there ... because that was hilarious to read.


Sargon of Akkad isn't even prolife, but even he can clearly see who is in the right in this situation.
I'm going to have to suggest, as funny as this was to watch, she's probably mentally ill or perhaps he is actually right and she really did have an abortion and regrets it.  It is pretty hard to understand why someone would have a freakout like this against a peaceful protester even if they disagree. If she is mentally ill, she has my sympathy and best wishes for her recovery.  And that guy definitely has my sympathy too, because holy sonic attack, Batman.
I'm not mentally ill and i can see myself in her. I can see myself going off the same way and performing the same paint can shaking, trying to scare someone off, and feeling incredibly awkward as i see its not working and trying to find a dignified way to stop shaking it. I wouldn't actually behave that way, but i am capable of it and know the feeling. What it is is that i have a sense of shame, imputed by the way i was raised and from bothering from time to time with self reflection. I don't think she's mentally ill, i think she's never been made to look at herself. Hopefully she watches this and feels a great sense of embarrassment which she can use to guide her in the future.
That's true, I suppose it could just be an old fashioned tantrum.  And yeah, while I would never go off in quite the same way, there are days that I would like to go off on someone in general.  But I don't even know how low my inhibitions would need to be to not only harangue someone like that, but start threatening them in a physical way with a paint can.  I mean, what she's doing is basically assault.
She's from a generation and probably a university that functions as an echo chamber for her, she likely never runs into anyone who wouldnt do the same thing. Everyone she knows would high-five her for this, she knows it and that's where her confidence comes from. I'm surrounded by people just like her, including my BFF (bless her heart. I do love her anyway.)
I didn't watch this but caption on the preview is LOL

As much as I agree with the sentiment, this probably isn't the most effective form of advocacy.
But it made me laugh
To be honest...same. lol
that's hilarious
Reminds me of the guy dressed as Santa sitting outside a Planned Parenthood holding a sign that says "Abortion is killing my customers"

They kill 887 people per day. Not ridiculous, not incorrect.
But they give birth controls and pregnancy tests....no one else does that!!!!!!!!!!!
It's insane how many people actually believe that. Like they don't have 12 walgreens, 5 cvs, 2 krogers, 3 walmarts, hyvee, etc etc etc, within bus distance, all with shelves stacked 7 feet high with every name brand and generic $9 BCP, and like you have to be a gynecologist to Rx, them and a family practice or a NP at the city's hhs clinics can't Rx them...
Yuuuuuuup.
Too bad Reddit doesn't have a laugh-react.

Your sarcasm detector is broken.
I really thought the extra exclamation points gave it away.
I've whooshed myself, oops
I mean, whether or not they do health care, no one is suggesting that they defund them because they do mammograms. Killing is pretty much what sets PP apart as an organization.  If they dropped that, I don't think they'd need to make any pink signs to begin with.
The "vast" amount of healthcare they provide does not excuse or erase the vast amount of evil they commit every day. They could solve world hunger, but if they still performed abortions, I would still wish the organization dismantled.

You presume too much. I would be in favor of stronger safety nets for those who are vulnerable, though I don't necessarily think that should always come from a one-size-fits-all social program administered by the federal government. I think the principle of subsidiarity is a good principle to follow in this instance. Regardless, in no way do I stop caring about children before they are born. I care about them just as much as before they are born. There are plenty of pro-life organizations that help expectant mothers after they give birth, both Christian and secular. I have to wonder though, how much you care about them, when it seems that you would argue that, if they cannot be cared for after their birth, it would be better for them to be dead. Just a thought.
I don't know how you're making that assumption.
Planned Parenthood does barely anything but abortions. Where are yiu getting your information?
Five seconds of research will show you that it's probably more than the 3% they claim, and drastically less than the 94% morons like the Susan B Anthony List claim. Either way they do a ton for women's and men's health that has nothing to do with abortion.
Do you not realize that they get that 3% number by counting everything as service? If you came in for an abortion they would give you a pregnancy test to double check.  Then they would give you information and then when you leave they might hand you a condom and a plan B pill.  That’s 5 service and only one of which was an abortion.  Suddenly only 20% of your visit for an abortion was the abortion. By this logic only 4/5ths of the abortions they provide are abortions.
Don't they also count giving a year of birth control as 12 services?
Let's ignore the "services" red herring and go straight to the most direct numbers. Total planned parenthood patients: 2.5 million. Total abortions performed:  321,384 The real question is, what percentage of patients received an abortion?  The "services" nonsense is not relevant to that very simple question, which has a very clear answer without any additional "interpretation" required.
I have 2 numbers for you.  My question is "can you do the math to tell me what percentage of the individual patients had an abortion performed?" Total planned parenthood patients: 2.5 million. Total abortions performed: 321,384 Where are you getting your made up information?
It's 2.4 million, according to PP, but that's a negligible difference. 321384/2400000 = 13.4% So Planned parenthood killed an innocent child for 13.4% of its patients. The vast majority of their other services were STI testing and contraception, totaling 75% of their services. Because they would do an STI test, and a contraception test, and maybe other services like cancer screening and an abortion on the same woman, I can't fully break down what percentage of PP's non-testing services are abortion. But let's try ignoring basic testing and screening services, which are relatively simple services, and try to only look at more significant medical services. So let's temporarily ignore STI testing, contraception, and screenings. Also simple treatments for STIs, like prescribing creams or giving vaccines. (Not to say they're not important, but to focus on things they do besides these testing and screening services.) Female Sterilization Procedures 352 Vasectomy Clients 3,257 LEEP Procedures 1,549 Cryotherapy Procedures 337 Abortion Procedures 321,384 321,384/(352+3,257+1,549+337+321,384) = 98.3% So of their non-testing non-screening procedures, 98.3% of their services are abortions.
And of their non-non-abortion services, abortions are 100% of their services, but I'm not sure what point that is supposed to make.  The question was only whether planned parenthood "does barely anything but abortions", and clearly that answer is "no", because as you pointed out, 86% of the people who saw them were not for an abortion at all. Now does that have any bearing on whether abortion is moral or whether planned parenthood is evil?  Of course not.  But that wasn't the question.  The person I replied to make an absurdly uninformed claim that is not even in the realm of being accurate, so that's the only thing being addressed by my comment.
It's simple: Most of their services are relatively simple testing and screening services. If you look at major medical services, it's clear that abortions are their primary focus, after those simple testing and screening services.
Sure, I think that's a pretty straightforward fact, and one perfectly in line with their general claims that their primary role for their patients is that of preventative care like screenings, testing, and contraception, with a minority of patients seeking abortions. For some reason though there seems to be a bizarre strain within the pro-life movement (like the commenter above) who have some kind of commitment to denying this basic fact and claiming that it's a lie that PP does anything but abortions for anyone.  I'm not even sure why, because the truth/strength of the pro-life position is in no way correlated to what the exact percentage of abortions at PP is, but these people are everywhere nonetheless.  They seem to have all picked up this talking point about how the "services" count is totally fabricated, totally ignoring the very straightforward abortions/patients numbers that put an upper limit of 15% on "visits for abortion" (although that's actually even lower in reality once you include multiple visits per patient). I'd just like to see people care enough about facts that they don't try to fabricate them or reframe them to mislead because they somehow believe it strengthens their position.  You seem honest enough about it at least...I just wish I could say the same for more.
Abortions are their focus. Their main thing. Their priority. By sheer quantity, you can argue that testing is their main thing, but those are quick and minor procedures, so it's simple to get a ton of those to add up quickly. It's not easy to add up a million abortions every few years. The point is that STI testing is a red herring. Almost anybody could do that. The focus of Planned Parenthood is to engage in abortions.
I’m not sure what you’re even arguing with such vague terms.  You readily admit that 6 times as many of their patients don’t get abortions than do, but then seem to want to claim that that doesn’t count or something because they’re “easier”.  I’m not sure where the idea comes from that if something is easier than something else that it can’t be one of their priorities, but I don’t really see how that logic would hold up. I mean obviously they have no problem with performing abortions...that’s not gonna be debated by anyone.  But you seem to have this idea that if you can make the case that 13% of their patients define their sole “focus” that somehow you’ve won something.  What exactly makes you so averse to just admitting that their “focus” is all medical things related to sex, including abortions? The numbers we’re discussing couldn’t make that much clearer, and you’re offering no argument beyond “well abortions aren’t as fast of a procedure”. More generally, what is it that you think the answer to that question gives you?  Does one answer or the other somehow change the acceptability?
I am an engineer. I have quick small jobs which require a quick minor inspection. I can do ten of these in a day. They are simple and easy. I also design major projects that cost tens to hundreds of thousands of dollars. Doing one of these may take a day, or may take several days. So I actually spend most of my time working on major projects, even though I do way more of the minor jobs, if you go by numbers. My point is that to say I do more small jobs than big jobs is true, but it's misleading if you actually want to know what I do most of the time.

How does the fact that they hand out contraceptives like candy make the reality of their support of death incorrect?

Facilitating and performing abortion is 100% support of death all of the time. When have I ever villified or shamed women? I'm more than happen to shame an abortionist like I would a rapist, and murder is far worse than rape.
In the early 20th century new immigrants to America faced fierce racism and rejection. They were frozen out of jobs, denied loans, and systematically discriminated against at all levels of government. So they banded together, organized, created their own jobs and funded their own loans, stood up to bad laws, and infiltrated politics by any means necessary. Most of these groups eventually overcame the rejection they first faced in large part because of these organizations. Oh yeah, and they occasionally killed a bunch of innocent people. Doing some good while murdering people does not justify the Mafia’s existence, and it does not justify Planned Parenthood’s existence.

Most Catholics in the US are also suffering from what I'd call "cultural Catholicism," have been for years, and its only getting worse.  Which is to say that they have barely any idea about what the Church actually teaches.
You are right about that.
While Catholics have been the foundation and leadership for a lot of the largest organizations, Catholicism is also suffering the sharpest decline in the U.S, which contributes to Evangelicals taking the lead in numbers.
Makes sense.  Too bad really.
Perhaps magical thinking like religion shouldn’t be the bases of pro-life anyway....or any philosophical or moral issue for that matter. The books are old and need to be updated.
We'll need to disagree on that. In any event, it isn't the basis of the pro-life position.  There are plenty of secular arguments against abortion.  It's just that certain religions also happen to align with the pro-life position due to their doctrine and their organization can provide a ready source of coordination which can make a movement more effective. If I was an atheist, I'd believe pretty much the same thing about abortion.  I know this because I don't think I have yet brought up God or souls or any purely Christian or religious doctrine in discussing the practice.
Yes. I am a religious person but one reason I am pro life is we know science and what science says about life. And we know what murder is. My faith happens to agree with those facts.
So what do you think should be the base of pro life thinking? (I dont mean to imply that religion should be, because clearly it shouldnt be, I am just wondering what you think)
Frankly, this is an absolute scandal for Catholics.  Our catechesis is severely lacking if we don't get this.  We have allowed the heresy of cafeteria "Catholicism" to overrule theology dating from the Church Fathers. Pray for us.
I gotta say, My Catholic brethren have let me down. And it depresses me that politicians like Tim Kaine and Joe Biden are Catholic, but also extremely pro-choice. It's like they're putting their politics before their god.
Catholics seem to just be fine with voting for Pro Abortion candidates. Catherine Cortez Masto easily carried Nevada's Catholics even though a strong part of her campaign was saying how great PP is.

It's weird, I'm kind of starting to like her a little more.
It's an entirely pragmatic decision on her part.  There are pro-life Democrats, albeit a minority at least, but she knows that she can take nothing for granted in November after watching Donald Trump win the Presidency. As she said, she needs the gavel to be pro-choice.  I don't agree with the Republicans on all things, but I think it is important that the gavel remain pro-life. She is one of those unfortunate "Catholics" who believes that you secure Women's Rights by killing innocent people.  I wish I could say she was rare in the US and among Catholics.
What do you think of this argument?  How can it be adjusted to be the most effective it can be?
I think it's better to say, "Consent to an activity is consent to risks of that activity occurring, and should they occur, you are the most responsible party" -- whether it's sex & pregnancy, driving & causing an accident, eating & digesting, or any other activity.
Right.  There seems to be this idea I have come across from pro-choicers I have talked to that consent needs to be ongoing and that retraction of consent means that they can abort at any time. As you pointed out, this is not how many decisions in real life work out.  When you consent to an action, you consent to the action and the risks that go with it. If you climb in a car, you might well be held responsible for an action you did not ask for, or initiate, such as a child running out in front of your car.  But if you did not take appropriate action to either maintain your brakes, or maintain proper speed for the location or proper vigilance, you may still be held responsible for what happens to the person you hit.  By operating a motor vehicle, you consent to the responsibilities that go with operation of a motor vehicle. Actions can initiate a cause and effect relationship.  Sex can lead  to pregnancy.  You are not required to have sex with anyone, at any time. Of course, as soon as the risk is realized, it is too late to reconsider.  The parents have procreated a human being, who automatically has value and equal rights to the parent. Whether or not it is fair that it happened, or it represents "equipment failure" in the sense of faulty birth control is irrelevant.  A new human is now in the picture, and we are morally and ethically compelled to consider them as a subject of human rights as they are 100% human.
We’re not required to have sex but it is normal and healthy (in a marriage, in my belief) to have relations with your spouse. That doesn’t mean every single time should result in pregnancy. It’s up to the couple to maintain responsible stewardship over their fertility.
Sure it is both normal and healthy.  And you should be careful.  I've been childfree and married for quite a few years now and we've taken actions to ensure that condition. But I don't believe for a second that if those precautions fail to work, that I'm entitled to kill someone just because I was only engaging in sex for the positive side effects for my health and relationship.  That's one reason I wanted to be married and settled with our relationship, both to ensure our security, but also to ensure that if I am having sex with a woman, we have the ability to actually support our family if we had a surprise. As it turns out, we've been entirely successful in our desire to remain child free, but if that had not been the case, there wouldn't even have been a tough decision because we knew that screwing around can produce children and we were prepared for it. That's one reason that I do tend to be more conservative about certain family issues that might be considered passé today.  Sex generates children.  You're not required to get pregnant every time you engage in it, but its a real risk, and one you should be prepared for before engaging in it.  I'm not going to sit here and pretend I was a virgin until I got married, because I was not.  But I was very aware of the risks, and always focused on ensuring a long term relationship both for that reason and for having a solid foundation for my adult life with another person. So, to me, I have some sympathy for people who get into unplanned pregnancies, since it can certainly happen to anyone, but we can't sit here and pretend that it is shocking that sex might produce children, and turn that into a justification for killing them.
Oh I absolutely agree with you lol
Very well said!
When two people go out on a date, there is a risk that sex will follow.  So does a woman automatically consent to sex if she goes out on a date with a man?
You phrase this as if sex is some kind of Act Of God like a tornado or something "Oh nooo, it's happening AGAIN!"
Do you have a substantive point to make?  Or are you just going to comment on my phrasing?
Words mean things. Nails and wood can make a chair, or a coat rack. Depending on what you do with them and where you put them. I see now that you say you meant to say rape, but just because you meant a coat rack to be a chair doesn't mean people are going to sit on it rather than hang their coats on it.
No, when I said “consent to sex” I did not mean “consent to rape.”  By definition, one cannot consent to rape.  Please try again.
you said this in clarification of your initial post
And?
Initiating and engaging in sexual activity is a completely voluntary action.  There is no biological process which causes involuntary sex when you go out on a date. Getting pregnant when you have sex cannot be made entirely voluntary as the process places motile sperm in the proper location for fertilization and those sperm operate entirely autonomously in their function once deposited. In other words, apples and oranges.
Are you forgetting about rape?
Rape is a voluntary action on the part of the rapist.  Sex cannot be engaged in without at least one person deciding to go through with it. Getting pregnant from sex is entirely involuntary.  Even your rapist could not choose to rape a woman and somehow be sure of preventing pregnancy short of further harming the woman to that end. And lest you be confused here, we are making a voluntary/involuntary distinction here to assert why you cannot expect to "withdraw consent".  Conception is an involuntary process for all participants.  If you did consent to the act, then you have consented to the risk of an involuntary process coming to fruition despite your attempt to avoid it.
But not on the part of the victim.  For the victim, the rape is an involuntary process coming to fruition. Going on a tinder date with a stranger carries the risk of rape.  By going on a tinder date with a stranger, does the would-be victim consent to the risk of rape (even if she doesn’t consent to the rape itself?)
So, I think we're talking about different things. It occurs to me that you're suggesting that going on a date could mean date rape which could mean non-consentual sex. That's an interesting argument for the less than 5% of pregnancies caused by rape, but it doesn't say much for the 95% of pregnancies that are not. I'm happy to go down that road, if you'd like to stipulate that you agree that we should completely end abortion on-demand and concentrate on whether there should be a rape exception or not. Otherwise, we're wasting time talking about an edge case.
Um, how about we focus on the rape exception first, and then move on from there? And btw, 5% is far from an "edge case".
Very simply because if we can resolve differences on on abortion on-demand, we save 95% of the children being aborted, even if we can't agree on the 5%. Since we can always create a rape exception for those 5%, then it seems to me like we should logically discuss why the 95% should continue to be killed because an exception immediately takes care of that 5%. And call it what you will, 5% may or may not be what you'd call an edge case, but using it as a reason to prevent progress on the other 95% is what I'd call unreasonable.

What (I believe) we are talking about is this principle of yours: and testing its validity.  You are of the position that voluntarily engaging in sexual activity implies a consent to the risk of pregnancy, which, I kind of buy into now (the proper usage of “consent” aside).  The question that remains is whether consenting to sex is tantamount to consenting to the pregnancy itself. I have come up with an analogous example that coincidentally concerns sexual activity to test out these principles (sorry if this has resulted in confusion).  I think most would agree to consenting to a date is not tantamount to consenting to sex.  But the question remains whether dating implies the consent to the risk of being raped. I am not talking about impregnation through rape. By going on a tinder date with a stranger, does the would-be victim consent to the risk of rape (even if she doesn’t consent to the rape itself?)
I think it would be fair to say she consents to a certain risk of rape if she goes on a date with someone.  She can control the environment and take precautions, but certainly a date rape remains possible. Note that consent to risk wouldn't be an argument for the rapist getting off.  The rapist would still have to take a completely voluntary action to rape their date.  What consent to risk in the case of date rape would mean is that third parties (such as Tinder itself) might have diminished or zero liability for the rape.

There is not a risk that sex will follow. It is a conscious decision that is made by two people. Unless, of course, you are implying rape may occur. Which may occur in the setting of a date or outside of it. Also, the ethics of abortion during rape are slightly different so I won’t go off topic here, except to say they are less than 1% of all abortions and not what we were discussing.

I think you're reading that wrong. While consent is ongoing and can be revoked at any time during the act, you cannot revoke consent retroactively. If you stop having sex half way through, that's revoking consent. If you wake up the next day and decide that you wished you hadn't had sex, you can't revoke consent and retroactively make it rape. Same thing with pregnancy. You can revoke consent during the act, but once you're pregnant, its already at the consequences stage. You can't revoke consequences simply because you don't like them. I should also mention I don't like the word consequences because it has a negative connotation. I don't believe in the idea that people should be punished for having sex. Unfortunately, it's the most accurate word to describe what is going on.
I think you’re the one reading it wrong.  That principle mentions nothing about revocation of consent, but you are reading revocation into it.  When two people go out on a date, there is no consent to sex to revoke if consent was never given in the first place.  A woman doesn’t consent to sex until she does, just as a woman doesn’t consent to pregnancy until she does.
It would make more sense if I had replied to your prior comment, like I meant to. I took issue with you bringing up the "consent to date is consent to get rapes" bit in the first place, when I was trying to show that's not what the original comment meant. Does that make more sense? Sorry for the confusion, my fault.
When you say “I think you’re reading that wrong,” what’s the “that”?
I'm on mobile so it's difficult to quote the comment. The comment from u/ohnotokyo that you originally replied to.

Agreeing to go on a date is NOT consenting to sex.  Consenting to sex is consenting to sex.
couldn’t agree more
Then why would you bring it up like it is?  Going on a date is not consenting to sex.  Going on a date is not consenting to rape.
I was attacking someone else’s reasoning
That’s exactly the opposite of what I implied. A date is not consent to sex or rape. You’re intentionally missing the point
I confused you with OP sorry.  But there is a risk that non-consensual sex will follow a romantic date.
Lol I don't know how much more you could misread what they're saying.
explain
Pregnancy and sex have a direct, causal relationship, whereas dating and rape do not.
Assuming that is true, why does that matter?
It disproves your analogy that you used to indict their rationale.

That's a separate activity that involves separate consent. The examples I gave were all activities with inextricable links to resultant risks. Yours, not so much.
How are “inextricable links to resultant risks” different from “risks”?
It's really not, I'm just elaborating on what risk actually means for you. A risk of a date is not sex.
So then the examples you gave were “risks” just as much as they were inextricable links to resultant risks. Does going on a Tinder date with a man that a woman has never met before entail any risk of non-consensual sex?
The more linked it is to the original activity, the more of a risk you can say it is of that activity. It's a spectrum, not a yes/no.
OK I see what you are saying.  But how does one measure and compare the nexuses between different activities and the accompanying unwanted results they risk?  I.e., why is sex more “linked to” pregnancy than a risky Tinder date is “linked to” rape?
It really depends on the statistical propensity for that action to directly cause the resultant situation. Likelihood & directness. The more degrees of separation between an action and result, the more we are inserting additional sort of "consent" checkpoints that make that initial activity less "linked" to the result. Additionally I think you have to consider that even if an action and result are highly linked, we still always have to assess who is the most responsible party involved -- whether they have decision-making capacity, whether one party forced the other to do something, etc.

When two people do anything there is a risk that the other person will harm them in some way. That doesn't mean you consent to the harm. By "risk" they meant natural consequence. If you consent to an action X that has natural consequence Y then you're to blame for Y provided you could have done otherwise and it's clear and obvious that Y naturally follows X. That of course is the charitable interpretation of the principle. It's cute you think you made some grand point here.
OhNoTokyo never qualified “risk” as pertaining only to natural consequences.  That is something you are reading into his principle. OP’s argument relies on the principal that consenting to action X is tantamount to consent to consequence Y.  Is it?
/u/OhNoTokyo says: The charitable interpretation of the principle is what I said it is. You then respond by saying "what about rape?" as if that's somehow relevant... I'm not exactly sure why you thought that was relevant at all. You seem rather lost to be quite honest.
OP’s argument relies on the principal that consenting to action X is tantamount to consent to consequence Y.  Is it? Do you have an answer for this question?
No. Because it's a red herring.
What are you talking about?  OP literally writes “Consent to Sex is Consent to Pregnancy.  What do you think of this argument?” I’m asking you what you think of principle upon which this argument is based!
I don't think it's an argument. I think it's an assertion and I think the charitable interpretation of it is what I said it was about being to blame for natural consequences that you caused and that you could have avoided. What that means is that consenting (freely assenting to the procreative act) then you are, at least partly, to blame for the natural consequences that follow.

So going out alone at night is consent to getting mugged?
Is the person walking outside at night the most responsible party? Stay with me here.
They are the most responsible for themselves. And why would that matter? I am a mugger and I see you walking alone at night. I think to myself that surely you must be ok with getting mugged because otherwise you wouldn't be out alone at night. Or some guy sees a scantily clad women at a club, surely she knows the risk of dressing like that so she therefore consents to my advances. Or back to biology, if I eat a bunch of spicy food I understand  that I run the risk of getting heartburn, but I don't think that would be considered consent, because consent would obligate me to not avoid the hearburn, e.g. not take some tums or something like that. I think consent implies that I am obligated to allow something to happen. So it doesn't really make sense to apply to nature. so while I can be aware that something might happen, I am not obligated to allow any specific thing to happen. If driving is consent to break my legs in a car accident, to me that would imply that I am obligated to leave my legs broken, so it doesn't make sense. So while being aware that pregnancy is a possible consequence of sex, does not obligate someone to follow through with the pregnancy.
When deciding responsibility, it is very relevant to know who is the most responsible party. A mugger chooses to mug someone -- they are the sole responsible party for that action. A rapist or assaulter chooses to rape and assault -- they are the responsible party. Frankly, I don't know why this is so confusing for you. You take a situation, look at who made what decision, and figure out who is most responsible for the outcome based on their knowledge and choices. The scenarios you posed are beyond straight-forward: perpetrators are responsible for perpetrating crimes on others, not victims. That's complete nonsense. Consent means you're responsible for the situation you're in; it doesn't mean you are obligated to suffer through that result if there is a solution that doesn't involve victimizing someone else to benefit yourself. You can take antacids for GERD. You can't break into Mary's house, punch her in the face, and steal her antacids for your GERD. Seriously, not complicated.
I don't think that's a very accepted definition of consent. I think consent involves voluntarily agreeing to do something, therefore accepting some obligation to do or allow that thing. I don't think it has anything to do with being responsible for the situation you're in.
Consent means a voluntary agreement to do something; it involves capacity to make decisions and then making a decision willingly, knowing the risks and benefits sufficiently. That doesn't mean if the risks of that activity occur, you have to sit back and do nothing. Which is why I don't agree with saying "consent to sex is consent to pregnancy" because consent to one activity is just that: consent to one activity. However, if you consented to an activity, that means you had capacity to consent, and you knew what you were getting into, you willingly took the risks of that activity. That equates to responsibility for the result assuming there is not another more responsible party. It has everything to do with responsibility. In fact I'm not sure how else you would define responsibility if not well-informed, non-coerced decision making by someone.
That's a lot different than the original statement. Yes they are responsible for getting pregnant, but the issue just comes back to is abortion a legitimate way of dealing with it. So it doesn't really add much to the discussion. If it's legitimate then it's no different than something like declaring bankruptcy.
Right, but the key here is that if someone consents to an activity, then unless another party is more responsible, they are responsible for the result. So a woman who becomes pregnant as a result of consensual sex is responsible for becoming pregnant. The question, as you rightly point out, is what is a legitimate way of dealing with that? Since a pregnancy is another living human being who is fully dependent on the mother for 9 months to survive, and she is responsible for that state of need, it doesn't make sense to pro-lifers to say "oh a legitimate way of dealing with putting someone in dependent-bodily need on you is to just kill them." Taking responsibility for a situation give you leeway to victimize other people to ameliorate your situation (like breaking into Mary's home, punching her in the face, and stealing her antacids). Of course this all rests on an argument about personhood and who should have rights. But the main point is to combat this idea that pregnant women are somehow not responsible for the situation they're in (as "consent to sex is not consent to pregnancy" implies).
But I don't think people disagree with the responsible thing, but it still isn't consent.

The biological fact of pregnancy is however not that sex is some kind of fetal kidnapping. One cannot be liable for the fetus in any manner of forcing or criminal coercion or negligence. That is - a zygote travels on it's own into the lining of the uterus and 70% of fertilized zygotes fail in this. Legal sex (consent for a male penis in a female vagina) is not consent or liability (negligence) in any manner for that independent action ( fertilized zygote traveling into and implanting in a female uterus) to be taken. That would be like saying my walking on the sidewalk is consent for me to be mugged. Or my walking outside is consent for me to sneeze due to pollen counts. It is a risk of an independent action of another person/being/thing happening to you, not any kind of forcing or criminal coercion or even liability. And even so, our bill of rights protects cruel and unusual punishments as a condition of being found criminal or even (especially) merely civil-ally liable for something. There's a reason why even prison inmates have a right to self defense while in prison. Or even a right to medical care of their choosing - including abortion. Removing bodily rights can only happen in a few cases...either via draft which provides just compensation, or via a condition of ongoing criminal behavior (you have no right to self defense while you are raping someone.)
A zygote can't travel anywhere on it's own if it isn't created by the parents. There's an analogy I've seen made to a person who keeps lifting a lever because it gives them a dose of dopamine each time, and they keep doing this knowing there's a 1 in 300 chance an infant will show up at the end of a chute every time they pull the lever. And you're basically saying "the infant travels down the chute on its own to the chute entrance." Uh yeah because you pressed the lever. Who's responsible here? The person pressing the lever, or an infant who doesn't even have self-awareness much less informed decision-making capacity? They are completely liable for the result of pregnancy. They knew it could happen, that it was a risk of sex, and made the willing choice to have sex anyway. I would hold them liable for the result, absolutely. You're not the responsible party in a mugging -- I've rehashed this multiple times in this thread alone. Consent to an activity = responsibility should the risks occur, assuming another party is not the more responsible one. I don't see pregnancy as a cruel and unusual punishment.
Can you explain how creation of a fertilized ovum is consent for that ovum to implant in the lining of the uterus? Because as I already explained 70% of them (the majority) fail to do so. Not only that, but in every other way this would be a complete violation of known ethics regarding bodily autonomy. It would be like saying consent to sex is consent to anal. Or consent to sex is consent to ejaculation. And again, can you explain then how consent even to ejaculation in a vagina, equals consent to a full birth. In fact, 30% of pregnancies result in miscarriage just like 30% of fertilized zygotes successfully implant. So can you tell me therefore that consent to pregnancy is consent to miscarriage and we should force women to miscarry? Absolutely you would not ever. Because that's not really you argument is it? Are you trying to argue that sex is a criminal liability or a civil liability? Do you know that even so with criminal or civil liabilities that the bill of rights is explicit about due process and bodily rights while undergoing and receiving criminal or civil sentences? Even an at fault driver in a car accident has an equal right to their own organs, whether in the process of trail, or after the trial. In either way please specify exactly what kind of pregnancy (including complications) and birth you are demanding women endure and what type of stay of medical rights you would force on them in the process of determining at fault status.  Please also define why women and women alone, and only in the case of zygotes, receive a different set of rights than everyone else, and only for this one case. Why not? I consented to walking on the sidewalk? Even though mugging is rarer than not being mugged, you're saying sex is consent to a zygote implanting in my uterus even though that is the more rare experience than not (the opposite) in sex too. And even though a zygote does that ON ITS OWN. (seriously, try reading about it it moves on it's own!) Well that's your subjective view. Have you ever been told as a result of being found guilty or "at fault" for a crime you must lose a half quart to a full quart of your blood, and further suffer a 1/10th loss of your blood volume from an internal wound (placental expulsion) that takes 6 to 12 weeks to heal, besides also having a number of other complicated threats to your entire body, including your nervous system, immune system, heart, lungs, digestion and circulation and that your right to protect yourself from damage from these things is now forfeit? How does this not fall under "cruel and unusual." I can't see it.

"Risk" isn't always a good start. Some hardcore pro-choice feminists and sofists in general can spin/interpret it as a "you are treating pregnancy as a punishment for casual sex" and divert the issue to other things. Maybe "consequence" would be a better wording. Destiny, from The New Wave Feminists, use a very funny analogy: "Consent to eat implies consent to expel poop after..." (Obviuously, it doesn't covers the case of forced sex, but we have other arguments for that occasions, I think)
That doesn't follow. A risk isn't the same thing as a punishment. I mean that'd be like saying "digestion is the punishment for eating." No, it's not. It's simply an expected outcome directly linked to the decision to eat. I personally think the term "consequence" carries just as much negative connotation and is closer linked to "punishment" than the word "risk."
"Consequence" here is intended as "logical/causal consequence", as eating-digesting, or "switch the interruptor - the lightbulb goes off". I don't know if there's a better word for it.
No it makes perfect sense, I just think in colloquial language it's taken as more of a negative term because of how it's often used.
Yet even a responsible party (guilty? or merely liable?) is allowed due process and the equal rights to protect their own bodies and privacy regarding it. So what you are saying is sex, and sex alone, has a set of rules that violate the most basic concepts in the bill of rights (and criminal law, and bodily autonomy) merely for women and women alone. Do women need to report their fertility (and their periods? And their miscarriages?) to some government office? Should women have to petition for the right to their own bodies by proving the guilt of someone else first (how can you do that?) What constitutes and "at fault" pregnancy an how do you not violate 4th, 5th, 8th amendment and due process (undue burden) rights as a condition of being an "at fault" sex operator (of some kind?) Is it guilt or is it liability? How does the independent action of a zygote traveling into the uterus equal a liability for that zygote which means women's bodies are no longer theirs but the purview of the government and the domain of the public trust with no just compensation therefore?
And even perpetrators, if pro-choicers see the fetus as one, are afforded due process by law. Yet abortion kills the supposed perp without any legal proceeding whatsoever. So what you are saying is sex, and sex alone, has a set of rules that violates the most basic concepts in criminal law merely for the benefit of women and women alone? See how that comes back to bite you in the ass? I would advise you not to dish it out if your case can't take it -- and trust me, it can't.
Okay, sigh. This is not a very common response I get because most pro-lifers don't even try to use these terms (so I respect that) but I have gotten it enough times to recognize it immediately. This is a confusion of trial rights with the immediate universal rights to self defense. No person, in exercising their bodily autonomy, has to prove the legal guilt of the person endangering them first before they obtain the right to protect themselves from immediate harm. Nor do they have to prove the guilt of someone else (ie. prove there was a rapist) in order to have this right either. The legal fitness (guilt or innocence - fetuses are obviously legally unfit for trial) of a fetus has NOTHING to do with the right of a person to protect themselves from immediate harm. Justified homicide is NOT an execution. It is the exercise of self defense. Innocent people can and must be sometimes killed as a case of lethal force in self defense. Justified homicide makes no special exception for mentally incompetent people (legally unfit) people. In that case then, you should know, I knew a down syndrome (legally innocent) rapist. By your logic therefore, I would have no right to self defense from him while he was raping me (he didn't I'm being hypothetical), I would either have to let him rape me as he was legally innocent, or I would have to find some judge and jury first to find him guilty first? That's not how any of this works. And please, understand I applaud you attempting to rationalize your beliefs with common law definitions because how else can we reach understanding together? But reality and the law is not black and white like this. I.e. it's possible in justified homicide (like abortion is) that there are two completely innocent (one legally abiding the other legally unfit for trial) people, yet one is unlawfully endangering the other. One is the active force threatening the body of the other. In this case, it is always the fetus. It's not the woman crawling inside the fetuses body and compromising the fetus. It's the fetus. That's the biological fact. I just did deal with it though. These rights are already extremely explicit. I am trying to explain to you how they already are. It's a gross error to confuse basic self defense rights with some kind of trial and execution.
I think the salient point here is there is no other situation like pregnancy. Pregnancy/abortion, in the vast majority of situations, involves the woman (1) creating a human being by her actions, (2) putting that human being into direct contact with her body by her actions, (3) then demanding the legal right to kill that person because she is exercising her bodily autonomy. Without legal proceedings, of course. What other situation is like that? Where the person claiming they need to kill another person is the one who created their dependent state and caused them to start using their body in the first place? Because with abortion and with any comparable situation, I and believe many people, would not be so quick to support killing that person just because they are now hindering bodily autonomy like we would in situations you're clearly trying to compare it to. Except it's not justified. That's the point. It is an execution of an innocent party who is only there because of the actions of the person executing them. Look I get what you're trying to say about innocents and justifiable self-defense, but how is this even a comparable situation? Did you cause them to start raping you -- like directly, you placed their penis in your vagina then said "this is rape"? Is raping you keeping them alive? The link between sex and pregnancy, and the actual direness of pregnancy to one party staying alive, is not represented in comparisons used to justify a self-defense killing. Certainly not in this one. And abortion doesn't threaten the body of the fetus? I mean there are clearly two sides to this coin, and one entails a much harsher and more serious result than the other. Considering who is actually responsible for the situation, it doesn't make sense that the threat of pregnancy should outweigh the threat of death.
This argument is completely moot and absurd. There is no situation like any other situation...that is why we created universal human rights. Sex is not a crime, and zygotes/blastocytes biologically travel on their own into the lining of the uterus. Fact. There is no legal responsibility EVER for anyone's body to belong to the state (with no due process and no just compensation) merely because there was a risk of an outcome of a legal activity from ANOTHER PERSON DOING SOMETHING DIFFERENT. Even if you were to take your analogy of a baby/dopamine chute...(its not even accurate - the baby then climbs up into a uterus and hooks itself to you) there is ZERO even criminal liability you could ever make EVER that would not be a violation of universal human rights. Are you aware of the 14th amendment (equal protection clause or EPC) and what it means? Or do you disregard the implications of making exceptions for women's rights (are women second class citizens as long as they are fertile and have a uterus?) because you consider fetuses more equal than others merely because they are fetuses (and managed to touch a fertile female uterus in a certain way.) ETA: BTW that is the DEFINITION OF CLASS BASED (ILLEGAL) LEGISLATION. Nope. Read above again. There is no forcing or coercion. At all. And even so, even criminal guilt would not remove the rights I've described. And ETA: there's that incorrect use of the word execution. Self defense != executions. Can you imagine a woman's pregnancy police investigation unit? Where women's period blood and miscarriages are all considered possible abortion cases? Absurd that you have to go this far to rationalize your exceptions and honestly I don't even understand what you are saying and how this relates to the biological facts of sex. Do you think it's not rape if you say no halfway through sex and they don't stop? Or is it not rape if you say yes to sex but they put it in your butt which you did not consent to? Or is it not rape if you say yes to one person then a second person comes in and starts penetrating you? I don't understand. This makes zero sense as well and again you are saying this that merely is not true. Your opinion doesn't change the facts. The definition of justified homicide compared to nonjustified homicide (and other forms of illegal homicide), is that the motive is just. That is, the primary reason is not to kill, but it is justified self defense. The motive is to protect the body from immediate harm. The fact that the outcome is killing is merely the outcome. Lethal force as a last resort is always legal. Do you understand the terms duty to retreat? The fetus, if there without consent, is unlawfully occupying the woman's body. You have no right to self defense (and bodily autonomy, and life) while you are actively violating the body of another, and it doesn't matter if it (the fetus) is legally innocent (mentally incompetent). The woman is not responsible. We are going in circles now. Saying sex is consent to pregnancy is like saying pregnancy is consent to miscarriage (or actually even more extreme - it's like saying consent to doing one thing with others is consent for another to own my body merely because there was a chance they'd touch me in a certain way). Which of course you would never say. Because it is absurd.
Yeeeah this would be a good rebuttal if the unique aspects of the situation which I'm pointing out were just irrelevant. But they're not. I never said it was. That doesn't mean parents shouldn't be held responsible for the welfare of their kids. Certainly, sex can be "not a crime," and it would still be reasonable to expect mothers to not kill their offspring. Uhh being denied certain medications or procedures doesn't mean someone's body "belongs to the state." We deny medications and procedures to all sorts of people every day. We also make certain substances illegal. Guess all our bodies belong to the state! /s Again, come up with a situation that is comparable in the relevant ways, and I am happy to apply the same standards. Yeah, if it's ruled self-defense. People try to claim self-defense in gray situations all the time and are ruled against. I and others disagree that the vast majority of pregnancies would constitute enough harm to equate to a self-defense killing. I mean you can easily read my comment about one party choosing an action the other party doesn't agree to -- so, yes, it is rape. My point was that your analogy to a DS person raping someone is not comparable in the relevant ways, namely PersonA directly causing the PersonB to use their body through no choice of PersonB's at all, and causing PersonB to be so needy they will die without the use of PersonA's body. Just totally misses the mark. What is or isn't justified self-defense does depend on the situation. You bring up duty to retreat, which brings up home invasions. Someone breaks into your home, you (typically) have a right to shoot them in order to protect yourself. Great. But a more applicable comparison would be: you went outside, found an unconscious person on the street named Bob, put Bob into your home, then said "eh I now feel threatened by Bob" and shot Bob in the head. Think this is going to fly as "self-defense" because you were "protecting your body from immediate harm"? Yeah, think again. She is responsible. She chose to have sex, knowing a risk includes pregnancy. Pregnancy didn't just magically happen to her (let's save the fairy tales for the Bible, shall we?). She caused it to happen.
They are moot. A zygote travels on it's own into the lining of the uterus. Even before that, a sperm travels on it's own into the egg. How many times do I have to say that. There is no "forcing" possible. That's like saying me walking into a legal national park is the right of the government to force me to be bitten by a mosquito. Nice premise though. It would be good if you had a good argument backing it up, either with case law, or common law, or other form of logic. At this point we are ending up in you merely repeating yourself with premises that I have already rebutted. Even legal guardians have the right to kill their children in self defense if it is a last resort situation. Even parents cannot be forced to donate organs to children they gave birth to. Consider this analogy then: A parent gives birth to an autistic child, who then in teenage years grows quite large and quite violent. One day the child attacks the mother, and the mother ends up killing the child in self defense. By your logic, because the mother gave birth to the child in the first place, they are a murderer for killing their child to protect their own body from immediate harm. So again: This makes zero sense. Even especially if you factor in the ways pregnancy causes serious danger and pain and disability. Once again your premises are not grounded in any reality. Absolutely it does facepalm and holy shit. Making abortion murder is telling women they have a duty to retreat from their internal organs that no other person has ever. Their internal organs become the public domain, like a public sidewalk or a public street, (see 4th and 5th amendments) with no due process and no just compensation. You literally criminalize their personal freedom and privacy in a way no other person is. Their literal labor (like it's not even figurative) of their body becomes the unpaid property of the government, with no just compensation and no due process. And btw, saying certain drugs are illegal is a form of whataboutism. I'm pro decriminalization, Other than that I'm not sure what you are saying here. Are you trying to say women should be considered medically defined wards of the state (mentally incompetent?) as long as they are pregnant? I just did. To me though again, you lost the argument the second you tried to state that there should be one singular exception to universal human rights. Universal human rights are universal or else they are not moral. And the 14th amendment EPC is the huge reason abortion is legal. This is an argument from ignorance fallacy. All pregnancies cause medical blood loss, wounds, and trauma. Even the most healthy ones. There is no dispute or grey area about the illegality of requiring a person to have an impossible duty to retreat from someone or something they cannot physically retreat from that is causing them immediate harm. None. Even rapes are less physically traumatic statistically than giving birth. https://www.logicallyfallacious.com/tools/lp/Bo/LogicalFallacies/56/Argument-from-Ignorance https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Argument_from_ignorance So you saying there "might be" grey areas elsewhere, is a perfect example of this fallacy, and is a kind of "shrugging" an attempt to shift the burden of proof and avoid factual credibility for your own statements. There is no question about the facts of what pregnancy is. It is not a grey area. Oh and also btw, I thought I said this already, but pro-lifers constantly think lethal self defense is described as only justified if you can prove you're at deaths door. That's not how any of this work. For a third time now I'll tell you it's based on the ability to retreat. It's a last resort from when you cannot retreat from ANY form of unwanted threat or harm. You don't have to prove a "level of harm" before you get this right. (Headdesk.) Except there is no direct anything, once again we are going in circles. It looks like even in another comment you admit it is not direct. Explain how sex is consent to a fertilized ovum implanting on it's own into the uterus, which is consent for a full birth (of what kind of birth exactly? C-section? Miscarriage? Natural? Breach? What?) That would be called kidnapping and then murder. Can you please explain how a zygote is kidnapped into a uterus? How many times do I have to say this over and over? Except she didn't cause it to happen. Which I have explained many many times over. And even if she did (for this legal act) she would have the right to say no at any time. Why? Because people's BODIES are not PRIVATE PROPERTY that anyone, even a zygote, could claim they have a squatters right to. (Indefinite right to occupy without consent, as long as they showed up there in a certain way or touched it in a certain way.)
Argument from ignorance Argument from ignorance (from Latin: argumentum ad ignorantiam), also known as appeal to ignorance (in which ignorance represents "a lack of contrary evidence") is a fallacy in informal logic. It asserts that a proposition is either true or false because of lack or absence of evidence or proof to the contrary. This represents a type of false dichotomy in that it excludes a third option, which is that there may have been an insufficient investigation, and therefore there is insufficient information to prove the proposition be either true or false. Nor does it allow the admission that the choices may in fact not be two (true or false), but may be as many as four, true false unknown between true or false being unknowable (among the first three). [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
I think it's a red herring. Making this argument, and responding to criticisms of it, distract from the real focus of the pro-life movement: the child. We should spend our time hammering home the point that, no matter the circumstances, a mother does not have the right to kill her child.
Also, I don't like "implied consent" as a concept. It dilutes the responsibility of other actors. If I walk through a bad neighborhood, unarmed and well-dressed, I can expect to be mugged. But that doesn't mean I consent to it. The crime is ultimately the moral failing of the criminal. [I'll finish this comment later, I gotta go rn].
Consenting to pregnancy isn't what determines whether a fetus is a person entitled to continue their life, but yes, if you have sex you are doing the thing that makes babies and you know it, even if you intend to circumvent it. Just like if i eat 4000 calories a day. I do that sometimes. I am not trying to put on fat when i do that, but i know I'm going to put on fat. And i accept that. When i am getting worried about not wanting to get any fatter, i stop eating so much.
Consent to sex being consent to pregnancy sounds exactly like what some of my crazy as shit ex's would say right after they poked a hole in a condom or something. Not true at all.
Consent to drinking is not consent to being hungover. Its just as ridiculous when you put it that way. When you engage in reproductive activities, you shouldn't be surprised when you reproduce. You don't consent to biology, it just happens.
Actions have consequences, and if you choose to drink too much you will be hung over. You have to deal with that and face your consequences. It's the same for sex... You can involve yourself in certain sexual activities without risk (oral for example), but when you involve yourself in intercourse, you should be aware of the risk you put yourself in... Own up to the consequence if you choose to put yourself at risk of getting pregnant.
I can't tell if you're agreeing with me or if you think I'm saying that my hangover statement made sense.
Oral can put you at risk for STIs.
This wasn't an argument regarding STI's and I don't see how this is related. Oral is much tremendously more safe than anal, and I do not recommend the latter to anyone wanting to avoid pregnancy. Also, you should know if your partner has any STI's before all forms of sexual contact. If the partner doesn't have an STI, there is no chance you'll get one. On the contrary, if your girl is on birth control, the risk of pregnancy is still there. You just have to gamble with the risk if pregnancy when you know that if you were to get pregnant, the baby would not be a problem.
The other side would say that getting an abortion is in fact dealing with it though. Just like getting drunk one night doesn't mean I can't take an Advil and drink a lot of water in the morning to get rid of the hangover, I can accept that I might get a hangover, but I am not obligated to not mitigate the consequences of it. Even if I am aware of the consequences of sex, that doesn't obligate me to not get an abortion.
I mean, curing your hangover doesn't hurt anyone.  Aborting someone kills them. You could also say that I'm dealing with my debt by killing anyone who might be able to come after me for it, and it will make just as much sense and be closer to the actual situation in abortions.
Isn't it though? If someone stays out late and drinks alcohol, then gets a huge hangover the next day which makes them late for work, their employer can and will still blame them for coming late. That person knew staying out late and drinking can lead to a hangover, which in turn can lead to being late for work. Yet they decided to do it anyways, so didn't they technically consent to the potential consequences of drinking?
Yes. That's why I called it ridiculous in the very next sentence. I was making a comparison between saying "consent to sex is not consent to pregnancy" to show it's just as absurd as saying "consent to drinking is not consent to being hungover."
Ah, that makes sense. I must have misread your comment. Sorry about that.
Great sarcasm and additional example. It works.
I don't know if it works. Consent to go skydiving isn't consent to die when the parachute doesn't open. Is consent to sec consent to dying of AIDS too? It's more like, doing this activity increases the chance of this specific externality, so you ought to take that into account when deciding how you're going to act
Before making any decision the human brain must weigh all pros and cons and come up with a risk factor. Are the benefits of that action worth the risks? If the answer is yes, the individual engages in the action and assumes that risk. If the answer is no, the individual does not engage in the action and therefore removes all risk associated with the action. When skydiving , you do not consent to have your parachute fail and you to die. However, you assume that risk in still skydiving and having weighed all the risks prior to making the decision. Sex and pregnancy are similar. By using any contraceptives you are attempting to mitigate risk. If that mitigation of risk fails, you become pregnant, and you are forced to accept any and all repercussions of having sex; because you understood the risks prior to engaging in that activity. The point is: you engage in sexual activity knowing all the risks. That fact, in and of itself, prevents you from taking the life of another human.
You can't compare dying to getting pregnant. Sex is only purpose is for making babies, aids wasn't suppose to happen in the first place, and you only go skydiving to have fun not die. That along with getting an STI is a risk.
Typically, I hear the opposite actually posited in that manner: "Consent to sex is NOT consent to pregnancy," in which case, I'd simply as "Why not?" I think it's somewhat difficult to "prove" either way, at least from a legal standpoint. But I guess I would focus on applying the concept of taking responsibility for risky actions towards that and other metaphors that would harm other people, like drinking and driving.
Consent is an agreement between two parties.  When a woman has sex, with whom is she consenting to pregnancy?
the one with whom she has sex
So by that rationale, if they both withdraw their consent to the pregnancy, she can get an abortion?
withdrawing consent after the fact isn't valid.  If I grant consent for the car dealer to pull my credit report in order to apply for credit then I can't just withdraw that consent after the fact and undo the credit application.  The deed is done and whatever impact happens can't just be wiped away.  Withdrawal of consent would only apply to new occurrences.
Pregnancy is 9 months.  “After the fact” doesn’t happen until after birth.   Consent to the pregnancy can be revoked during the pregnancy, but not afterwards. Edit: e.g., UFC fighters can consent to a fight, but when one taps out during the fight, consent to continue the fight is revoked.
Consent was given before sex.  Pregnancy is a likelihood to occur from the activity that was consented to.
And if consent to remain pregnant was given before sex, both parties can withdraw that consent after sex.
And who exactly gets to consent to your ability to live every day?
Your question makes no sense.  You can’t consent to having an ability.

Sure. Consent to sex can be given before sex starts, and be withdrawn during sex, before it ends. Surely by the same logic, 'consent' to pregnancy is given before the pregnancy starts (before sex), but can be withdrawn before the pregnancy is over, right?
Your argument presupposes that the baby doesn't already exist. Pregnancy is the carrying of a child and not simply the making of it. It was made in the moments after the sex.
How so? Where did I say the baby doesn't exist?
Again, I wouldn't really use the phrase "consent to sex is consent to pregnancy" as an argument because I find it to be a strange use of those terms. But likewise, the "Consent to sex is NOT consent to pregnancy" argument (which is where this phrase originated) doesn't follow either. It's a glib phrase that is essentially just saying "We shouldn't have to be responsible for some consequences" (for some reason). It's like saying "Consent to drinking with friends is not consent to getting in a car wreck." It doesn't mean anything. In just about every other facet of life, when we make any sort of risky choice, it's generally accepted that we should responsibly deal with the results (without harming others in the process). For some reason though, when it comes to abortion, "consent to sex is not consent to pregnancy."
You’re saying that “consent to sex is consent to pregnancy” is a false statement.  You’re also saying “consent to sex is NOT consent to pregnancy” is likewise a false statement.  There’s a logical inconsistency in there somewhere! If you want to instead make the argument that women should be held responsible for the decisions they make, that’s fine and I have less issue with that argument (though it leaves up to interpretation just what “responsibility” entails.)  But this is a qualitatively different (and better) argument that doesn’t rely on the concept of consent.  The consent argument is a loser, and if I were arguing the pro-life position, I’d stay away from it.

I might have been! (unknowingly!)
I'd agree there that "consent" is an odd choice of terms in this situation, which is why I don't use myself, so I wouldn't mind both phrases being dropped out of these discussions. But to be honest, I hear the pro-choice version of it argued far more often than the pro-life version.
Since you're taken by your very narrow definition of consent then I agree but it cuts both ways. The silly pro-choice slogan "consent to sex is not consent to pregnancy" is trivially true given your narrow definition of consent and thus without substance. If I were morally retarded and logically inconsistent enough to argue for the pro-choice side then I would avoid that slogan if I were going to hold to the narrow definition that you seem taken by. edit: But I don't know, because pro-choicers in general seem so welcoming of moral absurdities and logical inconsistencies. It's hard to imagine what it's like to be irrational ie pro-choice.
This is a conclusory argument that needs more development.  Identify my definition of “consent” and the qualities that make it narrow.  Argue why the narrowness of my definition is improper in the context of this discussion. Then demonstrate how my narrow definition of consent invalidates, diminishes, or otherwise makes silly the pro-choice argument that “consent to sex is not consent to pregnancy.”
You said "consent is an agreement between two parties. When a woman has sex, with whom is she consenting to pregnancy?" That's narrow because it leaves out ordinary usage. It means the common pro-choice slogan "consent to sex is not consent to pregnancy" to be trivially true and without substance. When in reality what that slogan means is that just because a woman consents to sex it doesn't follow that she is responsible for the natural consequence of that procreative activity. On your narrow understanding, as I said, it renders the slogan without substance. Lol it's cute you think you're some kind of logic-guru or debate master.
Give me some examples of the ordinary usage of “consent” where it involves only one person.
That's a pretty odd thing to request when you could simply go to webster's dictionary and find something like this: People naturally talk about consenting to do things as just not being coerced. You really are adorable.
But you need at least two people to make an agreement.  Otherwise, with whom are you agreeing? And to whom are you giving permission? (or getting permission from?)

Nature and biology.
Neither nature nor biology are parties.  Neither nature nor biology can manifest the intent to enter into an agreement (let alone an agreement of consent) with a person. That’s one reason why the argument of consenting to being pregnant is a loser.
They don't need to manifest intent. They exist whether we want them to or not. Technically we do not need to consent to biology because we don't have a choice. We obviously disagree on whether or not it's ok to use abortion to override that fact so it's irrelevant. I bring it up for the sake of this thread but it's not something I would bring up in normal abortion discussion.
Well consent is a type of agreement.  To have a valid agreement, all parties must intentionally enter into it.  If nature and biology can’t manifest this intent, then they can’t enter into any agreement, consent or otherwise.
I'd say that anybody who argues otherwise either doesn't know that contraception is not a guarantee or that they aren't aware of how babies are made.  The most leeway I'd be willing to give would be to rephrase the argument as "consent to sex is consent to non-zero risk of pregnancy." People used to tacitly understand this argument and adjust their behavior accordingly, but decades of contraception and abortion options have dulled peoples' thinking on this. I think it's important that an awareness of the consequences of sex, both protected and unprotected, be pervasive knowledge in all society.
See David Boonin's A Defense of Abortion for a detailed exposition of this argument. He thinks it fails.
It's consent to the risk of pregnancy. Not consent to being forced to give birth to a child.
Why is that?  What qualms do you have with the other arguments presented here?
Well having sex carries the risk of pregnancy, so obviously they go hand in hand. I don't think it's much of an argument. Just a statement.
The statement is supposed to show that abortion for convenience is bad because you knew it was gonna happen.  That's the argument part.
Why does "you knew it was gonna happen" automatically mean it's bad? Also, I wouldn't say "you knew it was gonna happen" but rather "you knew there was a risk."
It's about taking responsibility for your actions.  Deliberate ending of a human life for your convenience, or saying that "I didn't expect it," shouldn't fly as excuses.
Ok. So a woman get's pregnant and isn't ready for a child, so she takes responsibility by ending the pregnancy. It's entirely possible they didn't expect it. Especially if they were using birth control. They knew there was a risk, but birth control can make that a very low risk. It sounds like the reason you think it's bad is actually the "Deliberate ending of a human life" part, not the "you knew it was gonna happen" part.
Murder is never a responsible choice.  Excusing the deliberate ending of any life by claiming you weren't prepared for it is the opposite of responsible.
Abortions are not murder even if you think the fetus is a human, because it's a lawful killing. You can be pro-life and consider aborting a rape victim's fetus a mercy killing/form of euthanasia.
But it shouldn't be lawful killing, that's kinda what this movement is about.

What specifically makes it irresponsible? I understand thinking it's immoral. How do you define "responsible"?
Responsible would be dealing with the consequences of your actions in a way that brings the least harm to all involved.  That includes the child.

Specifically because a women is the sole protector of that child, and by killing it, you are betrayed that responsibility. Harming other people, especially ones you are supposed to be protecting, will always be irresponsible.

I would have to say that sexual intercourse is used for productivity for a child. It’s like why were cars invented in their upmost purpose? Well to get from point a to point b. Do people use them to race people for fun? Yes, however this shortens the life of the car because the car is going it’s top performance in races and such. Does it mean it’s a bad thing? Can bad things happen like car crashes? Yes. These things happen because there is a higher risk involved, even thought it produces some type of pleasure. We don’t limit people who want to have more cars that are able to race and peak out at higher performances (except for the Nissan Skyline).
Get it in writing, put a ring on it, or be ready for a world of hurt.
Even rings aren't a guarantee.  You can rape a spouse.
Granted.
And, written consent can still be withdrawn.  What's safest is make sure that you're in a committed relationship (preferably married) and that you get affirmative consent beforehand.
Agreed on all counts.  As OP suggests, sex is not something to be engaged in lightly. But given all of this, I have a hard time feeling in any way worried about the men who might be falsely accused of rape if legal exceptions were carved out for rape (not that I agree with such exceptions).
I wonder if it would be better to say that certain actions come with responsibilities. If your action has the potential to result in consequences that put others at risk then you are  liable for the damages. Example, playing baseball by my neighbour results in his window smashed, I pay for it. Especially if the consequence is a natural result of the action. Example, I set a fire in my friends bathroom and he suffers third degree burns I pay his medical bill (and charged with murder). I choose to babysit my neighbour's kid and they trash my apartment, I have to deal with the damage and continue to care for them until their parents come pick them up. What do you think?
I think that's what this is trying to get at.  The problem I see with what you said is they might say "Well I wasn't trying to get pregnant" and would try to dodge responsibility.
The baseball player wasn’t trying to smash the window, the fire setter wasn’t trying to hurt his friend, the babysitter wasn’t trying to ruin their apartment.
The only problem I have with that statement is that not all sex is consensual. I can agree with the sentiment—if you willingly have sex, especially unprotected sex, then you should be prepared for pregnancy to occur—but just about the only real argument in favor of abortion is that "a rape victim shouldn't be forced to carry their attacker's baby," and this argument sort of disregards mothers whose baby was a result of sexual assault.
Tell the men that.
Gladly.
I think it's a stupid argument that undermines the argument behind the pro-life stance, that the unborn have a right to life, that abortion is murder, and that the mother has a unique responsibility to carry the fetus to term to the best of her abilities regardless of the circumstances of its conception. It's not about consent. Consent to pregnancy doesn't matter. It's about the rights of the unborn. Bodily autonomy does not factor in when you are the mother, regardless of consent.
It’s not an argument, it’s an assertion. You need an argument to support your assertion. Or anyway, that’s my 2 cents.
Okay.  How would it be supported beyond some legal definition?
Your argument could be that: When knowingly and freely engaging in activities, you must also assume responsibility for the outcomes, especially those that are, by their nature, linked to that act. Consensual sex is knowingly and freely engaging in an activity that, by its nature and biology, has a linked outcome of pregnancy. Therefore, consensual sex assumes the responsibility of pregnancy. The problem with it then becomes whether they think abortion is taking responsibility. It's obvious to me and you that it isn't, but someone who thinks abortion is fine won't agree. You can also use an analogy I learned from equal rights institute. If there was a machine, and it had a button on it that gave you immense pleasure to touch. But every time you get touched it, there was a 3% chance a baby would come down the shoot. If you willing touch that button, you assume that responsibility and care for the child that comes out. If a baby comes out, should that person be allowed to kill the baby that comes out, when he knew that might happen? This also doesn't work on people who believe a fetus and a baby are different.
Good question. Personally I don’t think it’s a supportable position, but I may be wrong. If someone presents a good argument I’ll reconsider. One way to get toward an argument to support any position you hold is to try to articulate why you hold that position or what convinces you that it is true. Once you can articulate it, imagine you don’t hold that position, go through your articulation, and try and find the points that would be unconvincing, and then strengthen those points.

I think your parents were siblings and pro-life
Thanks for the input.
No problemo man, coz consent to stupid opinion is consent to getting insulted.
I don't think that's how that works.  What's the link?
Welp i guess we ought to kill him then
Nah, unlike these guys, I’m actually pro life


The most ridiculous pro-abortion slogan I’ve heard in Ireland was by far the “Hoes Need Abortions” chant. Yeah, cause being a hoe is sooo empowering to women, am I right? 🙄
Sex work is work.
Sex work is dehumanizing and usually what women resort to either by coercion or if they feel like they have no other choice. Similar to why women resort to abortions.
Right, because of the taboo and the slut shaming we force women to endure. We reward men who've fucked a lot, but treat women like broken objects or "licked cupcakes" for having sex with multiple people. Sex is one of the most beneficial things one can do for another. There is nothing disempowering about the FACT that everyone already offers it in exchange for things all over the world. And the FACT that it is something that if you want to do a lot of, even for money you should be less ashamed by far than (imho) a lot of jobs. It should be considered as respectful as a massage therapist. Although this is true to some degree, in places like New Zealand where it is legal and regulated, and they live in a wealthy country, it's insulting to those women who do chose to do it of their own free will. It's also insulting to actual victims, because it perpetrates the dehumanizing myth that only broken women do sex work. Thus if you had to do it, either coerced or forced, that makes you "less than." Most people don't want to work at McDonalds either. What's dehumanizing about fast food is as equally dehumanizing about sex work. Society doesn't respect certain professions. That has nothing to do with the professions themselves.
I think men who've fucked a lot are just as bad as women who have. It's degrading and making women nothing more than a commodity for sex. A thing to be used for pleasure and tossed away when done. It's men using women.
Sex work does not make a woman's body a commodity, that's in the eye of the beholder. Nor does lots of sex degrade anyone. This is one of those things where people seem fine with lots of sex as long as its the monogamous couple (maybe even thrice divorced or even married for money!), but a little bit of sex with a few people and society is crumbling! That's confused. The woman's charging the man for a service. She's getting money from the man. Also it's silly to think safe, adult sex workers can't have normal relationships outside of their jobs, or that their johns don't respect them. Sure, its a customer-business relasionship, but therefore by your logic, all service work is dehumanizing to all relationships and all expressions of higher art. So if a person is a walmart greeter, their degrading themselves and all forms of neighborly behavior.
I buy something. That's what we call a commodity, right? I pay for it. A man is buying a woman's body. She's a commodity. It dehumanizes us as women, as mere sex objects. It makes me sad women somehow think this is empowering or a good thing, selling themselves, and often it is out of desperation and a need of money.
Sex work, like other services, is a service not a commodity. Buying a person's body is not possible as that would be slavery.  They aren't buying the body, they are buying the service of sex. Saying selling sex is like buying a woman harkens back to the days when that is what all marriage and all sex with women was. Women were always the property of whatever man put his dick in her, unless she still lived with her father. She was either married, or a whore (or a slave), or she was the property of her father. We don't live in those times anymore. Women are not the property of another merely because they had sex with them. Their lives aren't forfeit and their value isn't transfered to whom ever they have sex with. Your antiquated views of women as objects of whomever they have sex with is the dehumanizing view. The reason marriage exists as it does now in the first place was that it was a way of finalizing the purchase of a woman from her family. See: All descriptions of it in the bible.
Oh yes, the demand for men to lay down their lives to the point of death for the sake of their wife just as a guy who was nailed to wooden planks laid down his for the Church. Or how the first marriage that was directly orchestrated by God in the ideal perfect order framed it as “creating the perfect partner as an ideal and perfect equal (Bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh).” Or describing the former not from the mindset of a woman but of a man with the man being the one to leave his family behind and cling to her so that the two become one. Yeah the Bible was totally all about marriage just being purchasing a woman as livestock. /s
Hey u/G_Wonder, I'm not forcing you to have these beliefs. If you don't like them you don't have to believe in them. Whataboutism btw. Yes it was. I highly suggest btw, you read some books about it, historical books, not just your book of spells. But here it's even in the 10 commandments: wives are equal to oxen and slaves, property of your neighbor: "You shall not covet your neighbor's wife, or his male or female servant, his ox or donkey, or anything that belongs to your neighbor" What part in the 10 commandments bans raping your female slaves? Btw, I could go on a lot more but I think we will just agree to disagree. There's a book called "You will die: The burden of modern taboos on society."  I highly recommend it. By a ph.d.

You're right, all work is equally work, just like all opinions are equally opinions. They're not all equally good opinions. But that's for another subreddit.
You don't get to tell people what is empowering to them or not. Infantilizing women in their choices is part of the problem. Sure, it sucks if you're faced with a job you don't want to do just to get by, but is that disempowering? Also I can agree that's a silly ad, because it seems designed to trigger prudes rather then engender conversation...but the truth is yes, sex workers and sex traffic victims need abortions.
I need to kill my toddler -- she costs way too much and is making me depressed. (#howyousound)
Yes, just like how feelings about things take precedent over facts? :/ We already define killing something you can easily walk away from as murder. You only have the right to kill anyone in order to protect ones immediate body from physical harm.
Have you ever been on welfare or unemployment? You remember submitting proof of your job search, or the humiliation of having your employer sign the documents about your work hours? Do you think a poor woman should be legally required to suck a dick to get her benefits? Cuz that's what happens when sex work is work
Actually I do, if they qualify. If it's properly regulated and people have to pass drug, STD, and mental health screens, and can afford union fees, (edit: licenses too) and pimping is utterly illegal (only independent escorts can work) then yes. Edit: Btw, I'm only responding initially to the outrageousness of the claim that people should be ashamed of that. Tbh, my idea would make it impossible to be forced, since if only independent contractors could do it, and only after severe licensing and mandatory counseling/wellness checks and union fees, then no one could be forced to do it. See this is the problem, it seems you consider dick sucking gross or somehow inherently dehumanizing. Sex workers should be incredibly regulated, legal, able to track their customers, ban bad apples, be unionized, drug tested, registered , licensed, tested, be able to report rapes, report abuse, johns (customers) should be able to do same (report abuse victims - or that they are victims.)
You do realize that compelling and forcing someone to suck a dick when they don't want to (for any reason in the whole wide world) is rape, right? "You have to suck a dick or you don't get your foodstamps, section 8 or unemployment." That's rape. But anyway, this isn't the prostitution sub, so im not going to continue this. Enjoy your last word.
Yes, but that's not even close to the reality I posit. If you can only have it legal to be an independent contractor you could never force someone to work as a sex worker. First of all that would never happen. Ever. And you suffer from an unbelievable delusion about what sex work is, and sex negativity. Hey I didn't force anyone to slut-shame in the pro-life thread. I just responded to it.
No one needs an abortion and there is no difference between a “sex worker” and a sex trafficking victim.
Well that's ridiculous. Nobody needs to give birth. Pregnancy labor and birth are elective. No one needs to create a child in order to live and work and be healthy another day. To me this is sort of reflective of the problem with the pro-life movement. They will describe pregnancy as a "mere inconvenience" and deny the actual facts of giving birth. Tell me what exactly is "not needed" when you don't want to bleed a half quart to a quart of blood. Bullshit. Adults consenting to sex are not the same as children sold into sex slavery, and how dare you.
Pregnancy isn't elective.  The majority of abortions are the result of consensual sex between two unrelated adults.  If you're consenting to sex, you're putting yourself in a position to become pregnant just like someone driving on the wrong side of the road is putting themselves in danger of being hit.
The definition of non-elective is "live saving" no woman ever needs to be pregnant in order to keep living. That's ridiculous. Abortions are the result of being pregnant. Pregnancy is either consented to or not consented to. Sex is not consent to a zygote burrowing into the lining of the uterus. That is an independent action by the zygote itself, that no consent is made for by de facto consent to sex with another person. Risks of legal actions are not consent to outcomes of those actions that only you approve of. You cannot force anyone to undergo something that was a risk of a legal activity without their continuous consent. Driving on the wrong side of the road would be a crime, you would have no right to your own body as you would be in the process of recklessly and criminally breaching tort. No one has the right to self defense while in the middle of a crime. Is sex a crime then?
Law has nothing to do with what I said.  It's about consequences of actions, and how you put yourself at risk for these consequences by your own actions.  Sex is proven to lead to pregnancy.  There is no disconnect between the two, and saying that there is reveals a deeper flaw in the societal comprehension of reproduction and pregnancy.
The law defines the human rights and the common law responsibilities that we all irl have to suffer for. The due process that you take for granted it appears, which defines exactly thus, your responsibility to be or not to be, the property of someone else or your body and private life to be the public domain. If you want to redefine these terms as they are understood in the entire developed world, based on your perception that they are not ethical, then you have to redefine them for everyone and provide intellectual rigor therefore for it. Thus if you say sex, a legal act, a legal unregulated act, equals a de facto responsibility of your human rights to be removed as long as a zyogte is there, then you mean this must also be true for everyone else, in all other situations. I don't think you want that.  Nor could you even begin to try to define it this way. The truth is you think zygotes deserve a superior right over women's bodies that no other person has. Which is a violation of equal protection under the law. I don't even think you know what due process really means.

Indeed they are, you can elect to either have sex or not. Isn’t that quite literally the entire purpose of life as hardwired into the DNA of everything with the capability of reproduction? Needing to create a new generation? Projection much? Describing pregnancy as a “mere inconvenience” a denying the actual facts of giving birth is more of a pro-abortion thing. A period is on average half a quart? Adults are sold into it as well, you know. Often times through starting freelance and “consenting” and then getting sucked down into the near inescapable criminal underworld. Prostitution is not like being a cashier at Kroger.
Define how sex is consent to be pregnant which is consent to giving birth (Excactly what kind of birth are you saying is de facto consent?) Zygotes (fertilized ovums) burrow on their own into the lining of the uterus. 70% of fertilized ovums fail to implant btw. Please explain how consent is formed by this independent action of a zygote. The very first thing I learned in biology is that immediate survival is the number one drive, and reproduction is the second. Did you not? Besides the fact, again, I will repeat, nobody ever EVER needs to give birth in order to protect their immediate body from harm. That is the definition of non-elective. Aka life saving. Now I can guess you'll say "the fetus does" but that's kind of besides the point for reasons of the definitions of consent that you deny. Wow. Never in my life have I ever heard a pro-choice person describe pregnancy as an inconvenience. That's new to me and I read a lot of stuff about it. Nope. Holy shit no. The average period blood loss is 40-60 mililitres. That's 0.2 cups. Less than 1/4 cup. Also kind of ridiculous are you saying women should be forced to menstrate as well? Or are you trying to say it's legal to force anyone to lose any amount of blood against their will with no due process or just compensation? Absolutely yes. Most are not. Why are you making a distinction now though, when before it didn't exist? Citation needed, but sure and guess what, there's a shit ton of slavery in the nanny, housecleaner, and farm hand trade. In fact the most slaves are found in these trades...not in sex work. So, should it be illegal to be a nanny? Also lots of drug addicts get sucked into crime because its criminalized, and thus they are pushed into it by society, not able to seek help when being abused or needing recovery services, just like sex workers are. Because it's illegal, and it's so stupidly illegal that even 10 year old rape victims who are forced into prostitution are criminalized and jailed by police and judges in this world. How fucked up is that?
u/GayNerdsFighting already did. Why are you referring to sexual reproduction in placental mammals like it’s a kind of hookworm? The former drive exists to ensure facilitation of the latter occurs. A. It is a definition. Pregnancy is an elective because you can choose to not do things that result in pregnancy just as you can choose to do them. I was merely remarking on the volume of blood you mentioned, assuming it had something to do with menstruation. I wouldn’t mind it being illegal. It’s hardly necessary.  Same with private house cleaners. Sounds like red tape oversight been a reason for prostitution to be legal. If anything, it should be made even more illegal as there is nothing that is stupid about anti-prostitution laws. But as u/TheBrainIsABodyPart bowed out, as do I. There are better things to do than endlessly discuss how abhorrent crime deserves legalization with someone that calls themself “garbage.”
No, he had a premise, that was it. No proof. That's the biological fact of pregnancy for female humans. Not all mammals reproduce this way. Did you not know? Btw, you're calling it that, not me. I'm only stating the fact. Please explain to me why consent with a man to have sex is consent for a zygote to burrow into a uterus. Those are two different things with two different people. Or do you not consider the fertilized ovum a different person? Meh, this is what is called an appeal to nature fallacy, and I should have stated so sooner. Almost all mammals perform infanticide or even in the case of marsupials, spontaneous abortion. That's because every fertile mother can live to breed another day. But that's besides the point. Again, the definition of non-elective, the literal definition, is live-saving. Not "reproductive saving." You want to pick a fight with the dictionary and biological facts feel free. That's not a fight you are having with me then. That's with reality. You were off by quite a large amount. Are you a woman? When was the last time you lost a half quart to a quart of blood? Lol. I'm just going to bold this because it's absolutely hilarious and ridiculous. I'm sorry but this is absurd. Once again, nice premise. Would be nice if you had some argument to back it up. No offense but is that all you got?

And having sex because if you don't you won't qualify for housing or food stamps (meaning, you'll be homeless and starving) is not consent. If prostitution becomes "sex work" then the government becomes the kind of pimp you that acknowledge participates in trafficking which you claim legalizing prostitution will solve the problem of. I laugh.
Your logic got dismantled in my other comment to you now you have to repeat it again somewhere else. What you hypothesize is not only an insult to actual rape victims, it's incredibly unrealistic even if sex work was legalized in the way I want it to be. Slippery slope fallacy in case you didn't know. So yes it is indeed humorous. Thanks.
Do you think rape is so rare that you can safely assume any given person you're talking to hasn't been raped, and that you're in the better position to educate them on what rape victims feel like?
Considering they think that taboos are bad for society and that getting rid of every single taboo is a good thing, but at the same time believes there are objectively abhorrent things that only remain illegal thanks to their taboo nature, I doubt they have thought very much about anything.

What does this leading question have to do with your slippery slope fallacy? (Hint It has nothing to do with it.)

I think the second you call all feminists ugly you've lost all credibility. They used that tactic 100 years ago.
I think the second you advocate for unborn innocents to be sucked out with an industrial grade vacuum you’ve lost all humanity
This doesn't change the fact that criticizing pro-choicers or feminists for their appearances is an ad hominem attack. It's a very childish thing to do and doesn't help make our arguments stronger.
Who advocates for that?
Abortionists.

Considering it's the most common abortion method people who advocate for abortion are certainly advocating for that. But regardless of which method is used, people who advocate for abortion advocate for brutal killing of living human beings and I think that's the point /u/lancerelliott was making.
Would you say that anyone who doesn't want to make eating meat illegal is advocating the torture, abuse, and brutal killing of innocent creatures? I can't speak for other pro-choicers, but I advocate for a woman's right to not be pregnant. Ideally the fetus would be removed alive and placed in an artificial womb, but that's not medically possible right now. I guess to them that makes me void of all humanity.
But that's not the reality, the reality is that the human being inside the womb gets brutally killed in every single abortion so if you advocate for abortion that's what you advocate for. This is the reality of abortion:
Yes that is the current reality, because we don't have artifical wombs. That's what I said. I am not squeamish about medical procedures so trying to gross me out won't work.
I'm sorry but that's like if someone describes the horrors of concentration camps and your response being "Hah, don't try to gross me out with that stuff, I'm not easily grossed out!" as if being "grossed out" rather than describing the horror of an event was the point. My point stands, if you advocate for abortion this sad, heart wrenching, horrible reality is what you stand for.

Vaccums are one of the options to murder unborn people, yes. Other tools are also used. But who cares. People die.
Unforunately, fetuses die as a side effect of terminating a pregnancy, that is true. You said people advocate specifically for using a vacuum?
You call the genocide of thousands “unfortunate” like a sadistical phychopath
In my opinion, you'd have to be a sadist to want to force women to go through labor and birth.
Forced? When these women were sleeping around without protection, were they forced to do so? There is no such thing as sex without consequences We shouldn’t take innocent lives to avoid the consequences of our own actions

That's like saying cows die as a side affect of me eating a hamburger. Hopefully that sounds ridiculous to you, though with the mental gymnastics you must go through to disassociate 'terminating a pregnancy' and the fact that a baby dies, I'm not sure.
http://www.breitbart.com/london/2017/08/01/leaked-george-soros-plan-to-turn-ireland-into-a-pro-abortion-country/

When a person - male or females - claims to have been assaulted by their political or social enemies, wait for evidence to roll in.

Important reminder that Reddit donates to Planned Parenthood.  Strongly recommend enabling adblock if you are going to be here.
Unfortunately a lot of major companies that we use everyday support Planned Parenthood. Just another reason why our government doesn't need to fund them because they can get plenty of money from other places. Not that I'd want that though
I deleted the bumble app because it's a broken POS that wouldn't load any of my photos in or let me add any manually, then they suspended my account for breaking the rules by not having photos...
Also, these apps enable intercourse outside of marriage.
You can make the same argument for any form of social contact. The reasons for using dating apps varies from individual to individual. There are those looking for sex and others who want to have a monogamous relationship.

Honest question, should we feel bad for her? I've actually started seeing the situation akin to "slave kills slave master"
While her actions disgust me I can still feel sorrow for her and her family. So many in our day and age are deceived about what abortion is, it's very socially accepted, people are completely desensitized to the horrors of it because they have somehow convinced themselves (at least on the surface) that whom they are killing is not a human being of value. It's something that has happened throughout history and in many different places. During the Holocaust, Nazis referred to Jews as rats. Hutus involved in the Rwanda genocide called Tutsis cockroaches. Slave owners throughout history considered slaves subhuman animals. In Less Than Human, David Livingstone Smith argues that it's important to define and describe dehumanization, because it's what opens the door for cruelty and genocide. "When people dehumanize others, they actually conceive of them as subhuman creatures," says Smith. Only then can the process "liberate aggression and exclude the target of aggression from the moral community." We, as a society, have excluded unborn human beings from humanity so there are plenty of people who genuinely still see themselves as moral while seeing no problem with the killing of these humans. Our society is completely messed up and many people get caught up in it because they never even question that ideology. I do feel a great deal of anger at people in power, abortion providers etc. who enable these things but most regular people who get caught up in them deserve our pity and compassion I think. Some of my strongest pro-life friends are post-abortive women, abortion was normalized to them from a young age so when they found themselves in an unplanned pregnancy situation it was the "obvious choice". Only afterwards did they realize the true horror of what they had done and now speak out against it, many are still haunted by that "choice". I think it is important to approach everyone with kindness and compassion, even though I know it's hard when they have done something so horrible.
It's not though, over 50% of America feels it's morally wrong, there's not an insignificant percent of American who both think it's morally wrong, but still feel it should be allowed and engage in it. I just don't think ignorance is a good enough to excuse to commit murder. If it were, Nazis and Slavers would have an excuse by just saying "it's our culture"
I know that a lot of people disagree with abortion but it being legal does make it rather socially acceptable and very common unfortunately :( I’m definitely not trying to excuse her actions, they are inexcusable. I just wish she survived, realized the horror of what she had done and used her voice to speak out for life. Some  of the most powerful pro-life speakers are post-abortive women and former abortion providers.

By the way, I'm gay and pro-life. We have two children who were born through surrogacy here in Indiana. Abortion is murder and Planned Parenthood is an evil organization which could instead provide children to men and women like myself who otherwise wouldn't be able to raise them
It's so great to see all walks of life realizing the truth about the right to life. In my area, it's always just one main group of people who are pro-life.
Thank you-
This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.


As a pro-choice person, I don't get this - the whole point of legalizing abortion is to make it so that people can access abortion safely. For that to happen, abortion clinics need to be regulated and inspected. My only question is do hospitals/other birthing centres have to report on complications associated with pregnancy/birth as well? I would hope that they do...
Yes. These laws just bring abortion clinics to the same standards of other medical facilities. However because it costs abortion providers money to actually bring their clinics up to those standards it's just easier for them to call it unconsitutional and get a liberal court to strike it down for them.

Arizona's 8th Special Election Is TOMORROW! If You Aren't Sure If This Is Your District, Check Here - https://www.house.gov/representatives/find-your-representative If you don't know where to vote check here - https://recorder.maricopa.gov/pollingplace/ If you want a FREE ride to the polls then go HERE! - https://carpoolvote.com/#need-ride If you're in or around the district then please volunteer for just one day and help make sure EVERY Conservative in AZ08 Votes For Debbie Lesko! - http://debbieleskoforcongress.com/volunteer/

Why should the child be sentenced to death because of the actions of the father or mother?
Because being pregnant after rape could be incredibly traumatic. I think in these cases people arent thinking about the baby and its right to live.
I understand the trauma of the people in these cases, but I also know what abortion does to mental health. I know people in terrible situations can make terrible choices to try and make the pain stop, what I don't understand is healthy people not in those situations pushing them further towards suffering.
I don't think its always easy to tell what will cause suffering. Its different depending on the person too.
There have been multiple studies showing that aborting a baby after rape only increased the traumas and that very few people who kept the baby regretted it. Rape is a horrible, horrible thing but one horrible thing doesn't justify another horrible act.
Can you link to those studies?
Not OP, but while there are studies showing how victims of rape and incest felt traumatized after abortion -here and here, I've never been a fan of any pro-life rhetoric that in any way revolves around women regretting abortion, mainly because regret or lack thereof has no bearing whatsoever on the atrocity of the children killed.
Can you please point out where in these links it references studies showing the proportion of women who say post-rape abortion causes more trauma? I'm not seeing it.
The second link not so much as the first one (more about helping women who report distress and/or mental health issues after abortion), but the first one discusses how rape and incest survivors felt traumatized by abortion, or chose to keep their children. Again, though, I dislike these arguments altogether as they ignore the crux of the issue :P
Ok, but these are singular stories from women (anecdotes), not studies showing that a substantial proportion of women experience more trauma from abortion after rape -- which is what the person was claiming. I don't doubt this experience exists for some women. But that's not what's being questioned.
That was a mistake on my part, then. Apologies for the misunderstanding.
Yeah, I dont wanna sound too pro choice, but the people who kept their baby probably made that choice, and a lot of them had the option of abortion. I think being pregnant because you chose to keep the pregnancy and being forced to continue a pregnancy could have different outcomes for the pregnant persons mental health in these situations
Rape itself affects the persond mental health, to act like everything would be ok if we just let them kill the baby is moronic as it's already too late. I'm all for stopping rape, but killing the babies that comes from rape doesn't help very much. How the pregnancy happended doesn't morally justify a terrible act.
Are you suggesting that the mental health of all pregnant rape victims would be better if they were forced to carry the pregnancy?
Yeah I understand that. You cant just make everything okay, thats not whats trying to be done. Its more avoiding the future trauma the pregnant person would endure. Again, Its not erasing previous trauma, its for preventing more trauma. Honestly I agree with you on this. I just want to you understand the reasoning behind why people argue for a rape exception. This is just a small part of the more practical side of why, theres a whole moral side and everything. I still agree with you though.
It’s not a child, it’s a human fetus.  And there is no judge, jury, trial, or sentencing.  The human fetus is terminated.  Why should that be?  Because the woman no longer wants to carry it.
Why should a human being be killed because another human doesn't want to carry it?
Ew, my arms are tired *drops*
Because the pregnant human being no longer wants to carry it
This doesn't answer my question. Let me rephrase. Because a pregnant woman doesn't want to carry another human being, why does that justify the fetus being killed without cause or due process?
“Justify” and reference to legal terminology changes your question significantly; it’s now a legal question. Terminating the fetus without cause or due process is justified under the law because it has no legal rights. edit
I see we like to play word games. Fine, I'll ask my question again then. Why should another human being die because a woman doesn't want it?
Because the human being is a fetus and the pregnant woman no longer wants to carry it.
Why does a fetus have to die because a woman no longer wants to carry it?
Because a woman who no longer wants to carry a fetus gets an abortion, and the fetus has to die as a consequence of the abortion. What answer are you looking for?

By what moral standard or criteria are you determining that a fetus/pre-natal child has no moral status and therefore can be terminated by another human being? go troll elsewhere
By none.  I never said or suggested anything on the morality of abortion or the moral status of the human fetus.  The morality of the act is not, however, the determining factor on whether a woman should get an abortion.

Because we generally don't want obligate people to care for others. If I am giving you a piggy back ride and if I stop you die, I'm still allowed to stop.
That's not really true. If your mother is 90 and bedridden and you're her caretaker, and you give her her blood thinners every day and feed her and help her get to the bathroom, then one day the neighbor calls the cops because the house is swarming with flies and nobody's answered the door for 5 days, and the cops find your mother dead in filth and they find out it's because you went to Las Vegas and quit giving her her medicine and didn't arrange for anyone else to help, you'll go to jail. So there's that.
The difference there is the original agreement, you can't agree to care for someone and then not do it. But if you never initially agreed then you can. With a pregnancy there isn't really an initial agreement.

Except I don't generally think that if you're giving someone a piggy back ride and want to stop, you can shoot them in the face because you don't want to give them a piggy back ride anymore. Abortion is an active killing, not a passive "letting die".
Except we generally do. It's called parenting.
So if a father doesn't want to be a slave to his child he shouldn't have to work to feed it right? If he no longer wants to carry the burden then it should just starve right?
The father has a legal duty of care to his child.  If he can’t/won’t work to feed it, he’ll need to get public assistance.
So should the mother, sounds like you're being a sexist bigot. Women can abandon children under safe haven laws, give them up for adoption without paternal consent, and kill them in the womb. It's time to treat women the same way we treat men.
You didn’t ask me about the mother.  You asked me about the father.  Answering the question you actually asked me doesn’t make me a sexist bigot.
Shoving your head in the sand and ignoring the obligations of the mother whilst placing them exclusively on the father makes you a bigot. The fact that you have any concern about the fathers "legal duties" when the mother faces none what-so-ever under essentially any circumstance shows that you don't give a rats ass about actual equality.
Is your user handle supposed to be some kind of ironic joke? I’m not ignoring the obligations of the mother, you are.  Your question to me concerned the obligations and duties of the father, not the mother.  It ignored the obligations and duties of the mother. The mother of a born child has legal duties as well.  I never suggested otherwise.  You are just inventing arguments that I never made and attributing them to me, and you’re making yourself look like a fool.

Can’t it be both?
Everyone agrees that an unborn human being is a fetus or an embryo.  Not everyone agrees that it is a child.  I used the term that all can agree on.
Personally, do you think a human fetus can be considered a child? Why or why not?
Personally, I don’t consider a human fetus a child, because semantically, “child” refers to a post-born human being.
Can you elaborate on this part please? What reasoning and/or evidence do you have to support this statement?
I was asked for my personal views here
Agreed, but usually we hold our personal views for various reasons. I assume you’re one of these types of people; you seem logical. I’m just generally curious about why certain people don’t consider human fetuses to be children.
OK - whenever I hear the word “child,” the image my mind brings up is only that of post-born young human beings.  If I hear someone use it to refer to the unborn, my brain says “that’s not right!” I asked someone “how many children do you have,” and I got the response “two and one on the way,” referring to her fetus.  As I would expect, she didn’t say “three” because only two had been born.

http://www.dictionary.com/browse/child?s=t child noun "4. a human fetus"
I fully understand the descriptive use of the word “child.”  I believe it is an improper usage.  All agree that the unborn human is either an embryo or a fetus.  Not all believe it to also be a child.  I used the terminology upon which all can agree.
It's not really a question of "belief," though, when we're talking about the literal dictionary definition of something. At that point, it's just stubbornness! And at some point, it has to be acceptable to label certain viewpoints incorrect instead of deferring to relativism. Calling a dog a cat wouldn't be true no matter how many people believed it.
Dictionary definitions are generally descriptive and not prescriptive.  The defintions reflect usage, even if such usage is not universally recognized.  They will also often include non-standard usages. Thus, if there was some level of acceptance that a dog was called a cat, you’d eventually see it reflected in the definition of “cat”.
I'll accept that some definitions due change based on the vernacular, but I don't think that's strong enough evidence to question every definition in the book. The dictionary defining a human fetus as a child is fully compatible with the accepted definitions of "a son or daughter before puberty" or even "a son or daughter of any age;" it doesn't fall into the realm of words or phrases that are commonly misused and have come to mean something different than originally intended (i.e. "could care less," "peruse," etc). And your earlier assertion wasn't simply that not everyone would agree that it's a child, it was that "it's not a child." Can you back up that claim?
No one is questioning every definition in the book.  And to whatever issue of compatibility your comment refers is not relevant. But here are some examples of how the term’s usage excludes the unborn - I asked someone how many children she had.  She said “two and one on the way” rather than saying “three.”  When your tax return asks you to list the number of dependent children you have, this does not include the unborn.  When an admission fee specifies a special rate for children, no one expects a pregnant woman to pay extra.  When someone asks “how many children have you had?” one isn’t expected to include all of the miscarried fetuses, which could comprise up to 50% of all pregnancies.  This wikipedia page states that “Biologically, a child is generally anyone between birth and puberty.  Some English definitions of the word child include the fetus (sometimes termed the unborn)” which underscores the fact that its reference to the unborn is not universally recognized.
Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miscarriage HelperBot v1.1 /r/HelperBot_ I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 174537

This is the most bullshit non-answer I've ever seen in my entire life. If the "human condition" is killing innocent children for the actions of others then humanity deserves to suffer a brutal slow and agonizing spiral to it's end.
"Children should die because that's life. If you can't handle that, then you should die too."
No, children WILL die because that's life.
So...therefore it's ok to kill and murder children?
It depends if you consider life okay or not.  If you don't your only alternative is death.
I'm sorry you feel this way, you clearly have some bigger issues here. I hope you feel better and seek the treatment you need, if you need someone to talk to, let me know. I'll pray for you and may God bless you.
Absolutely pathetic.
You must be talking about your own comment.
The idea that a woman might lie about being raped to get an abortion was always one that crossed my mind when I thought about whether abortion should be allowed in cases of rape or not
Lol Roe itself was based on a rape lie to get an abortion. That exception is a moral hazard if ever there was one
Yeah, any rape exception, once implemented, requires abandoning the idea of due process. You're basically executing people without trial because you don't want to wait to prove "guilt".
Why don't they at least make them file a police report? That would at least provide a small determent to lying.
I live in Brazil, and it's just that easy in here. No proof or exams required, anyone can just claim they were raped, and if he doctors believe them, they get a "free", government funded abortion on the spot. I'm in med school and during my OB-GYN semester some colleagues of mine even performed it under supervision of a professor. Disgusting.
That is not the first and it won't be the last time a woman has lied about being raped.

I'd rather not have to register just to read an article. Can the text be found elsewhere?
http://archive.is/bvuAk
Hey Y'all! I think the pro choice side often assumes that no one who has had a "crisis," unplanned, teenage, etc pregnancy would be pro life. However, it seems very clear that a lot of y'all who have been through that are pro life, and your situations may have pushed you in a more pro life direction.I am fascinated by how two people can have a similar pregnancy story and come to different conclusions about this issue. As you know, some people become more pro life from crisis pregnancies and some become more pro choice.So if any of you all who have gone through this feel comfortable sharing how your pregnancy affected or didn't affect your views on this, I would love to hear it. Another question is were you pro-life or pro-choice before and how did that influence your decision?Thanks!
I'm not sure how well it fits what you're looking for, but in 2014 I carried to term a baby who was given a fatal diagnosis.  My daughter was diagnosed with limb body wall complex at her 20-week ultrasound.  It's a complex disorder where the umbilical cord and abdominal wall don't form properly, and the deformities kind of cascade from there.  There is essentially zero chance of survival.  (Supposedly there are three documented survivors, but I can't find documentation for two of them, and one baby who survived several days with it was probably misdiagnosed.) I was pro-life going into it, so there was no decision to be made.  Unlike some of the women I met through a support group, I was only offered abortion three times (twice in the same appointment, framed as an induction "right now" the second time, as though I wouldn't understand that was terminating the pregnancy). It was a life-changing experience.  Incredibly, incredibly sad, especially toward the end.  I am the sort who does a lot of research and I combed through blogs and medical case studies and found that most of these pregnancies don't make it past something like 34 weeks.  I made it to 36.  My daughter lived about 90 minutes (anywhere from 20 minutes to two hours seems to be the norm for babies who make it to birth). I received an incredible amount of support.  My midwives saw me weekly throughout my whole pregnancy and did pretty much whatever I wanted--I got a non-stress test just so I could have a printout of her heartbeat.  We had a 3D ultrasound and the company ended up not only not charging us but giving us a heartbeat bear for free.  My husband's job--with a staffing agency, so not exactly known for being employee-friendly--gave him unlimited time off so he could come to appointments with me and stuff.  Someone set up a fundraiser that ended up being incredibly helpful with all the missed work and such.  We stumbled upon the fact that the most expensive funeral home in the city (which we'd only gone to talk to because they're affiliated with my church) donates their services when a child dies, so we only had to pay a bit over $230 for her cremation.  Even the pianist donated his services for her memorial service. Other than one fellow accusing us of faking the whole thing for the money/attention and a couple of other people telling friends not to talk about us because their wives were pregnant, folks were overwhelmingly supportive.  Oh, and my mother-in-law decided to quiz me about whether I'd ever smoked or whether my mother smoked while pregnant with me, just to be sure I hadn't brought it on myself somehow. So I know it sounds like this was the greatest possible experience and not really hard at all.  But that's not the truth, exactly.  I have hyperemesis gravidarum, which is vaguely described as debilitating morning sickness that lasts the entirety of pregnancy.  I don't have it as bad as some women do, but I did have to go to the ER for fluids that pregnancy.  And the birth itself irrevocably changed the way I give birth in the future.  My first two children were born via c-section, but I fought with the third, fourth, and fifth to have VBA2Cs (even though it's supported by ACOG, lots of doctors won't care for a patient who's planning one).  Psalm had a 2" cord and would not descend.  I ended up having to have a c-section with her after 8 hours of labor, and that being my third c-section meant I'd have to have surgical births from here on out.  I had my rainbow boy in 2016 by c-section, and I am fairly sure the adhesions (think internal scar tissue) I developed after that surgery are why I had a miscarriage in January of this year.  If I had ended her pregnancy--something a lot of ostensibly pro-life people would support--none of that would have happened.  But she was my daughter, and she deserved everything I've given my other children because of that.
God bless you for your selfless love for your child.
You are a true hero and an amazing mother. Wow! If only we could all have a portion of the strength you exhibited and maternal love the world would be a much better place.
This was so sad to read, and you seem like such an amazing and strong person. I am sorry for everything you've gone through, including your miscarriage. Thank you for being so selfless and letting your daughter experience life even for such a short time.
Indeed, you are incredibly brave getting through all of this! I don't, however, think that it would be selfish for another mother to decide to end the pregnancy earlier. I don't think it's this commenter's point to suggest that, but it should be said. This is a terrible situation to be in, and I don't think there's one "right" answer in such a case. You do what you feel is best, and hope that your support system gives you what you need to follow through.
Those 90 minutes were her entire time outside the womb on this earth, and you were there for her. God bless you, and may her memory give you comfort.
I told my midwife "The only life this baby will have is when they're inside me.  I can't end that." When she came to see me in the hospital after Psalm's birth and death, she told me she remembered what I'd said to her, and because of my example and that of another woman, who'd carried to term with anencephaly, she had changed her mind about what she'd do if she found herself in a similar situation, and would carry to term. At the risk of sounding self-centered, I learned over the course of that pregnancy and after that I wasn't just serving as an example of what it's possible to do, but what I did was somehow helping other women who'd lost babies at a time when it wasn't acceptable to talk about it.  Seeing someone else go through carrying a pregnancy and losing the baby at the end I guess let them know they weren't alone.
Your depth of perception about your situation continues to inspire me. You did your best to give your baby a good life, and you were able to inspire others to do the same.  I've often thought that, heaven forbid I be in the same circumstance, I would carry the baby to term because I couldn't live with any other option, and no other option would make the situation less painful.  The fact that you've done so and come out the other side is truly admirable.  I am, again, sorry for your loss but grateful for your example.
You are truly inspiring.  I will pray that you may see your daughter in heaven one day.
I got pregnant at 17, right after starting college (found out in September 2009, about a month after starting.) I had just enough money in my bank account to pay the tuition for the next semester which was about $700 after loans and grants. I was nowhere near any family. I came from Florida, and college was in Indiana. When I told my very pro-choice mother, she said I should just get an abortion because its not really a baby yet. I wasn't particularly pro-life at the time, but I think I was leaning that way by then, and hearing her say that my baby wasn't really a baby pretty much solidified it. I was horrified that she could say that. I got a call later from my boyfriends mother, and she yelled at me for a while about how I was not going to ruin her child's future. Even after all this, the hardest thing was when I was sitting in the car one day and my boyfriend offhand mentioned that he told his mom he would go look at some Christian adoption agencies. I reamed him. I was not going to be giving away our child, and I certainly would never even consider a Christian adoption agency. I am Jewish and really resented the fact that he thought he even had the right to decide that at all. Even thinking about it now makes me LIVID. On top of all this, I was getting too sick to go to classes. I was throwing up all the time. I shared a dorm so it was really hard. And then I got Swine Flu. I went to the college medical center, and they wouldn't even touch my phone to talk to my mom. They made me put it on speaker phone, and treated me like I was AIDS incarnate. She got them to call me a complementary car to the nearby ER, where they gave me fluids, and an exam. I suffered for a while until I finally recovered. There was nothing they could give me, so it was tough. I eventually decided to leave without finishing the semester. I got a ticket back home, and lived there until my son was born. My boyfriend eventually left college as well, after struggling for 6 years of college with undiagnosed Narcolepsy. We didn't know it at the time, and I am sure if he got diagnosed sooner and gotten medication, he could have finished. In 8 days my son will turn 8 years old. I had another baby 4 years later, and he will be 4 in 30 days. I married my boyfriend, and he has a stable job now (one that requires him to be on his feet at all times because he falls asleep every time he sits.) I get to stay home and raise my kids. My son is excelling at everything. He is the most amazing, empathetic, intelligent, caring, determined, and hard working kid I've ever met. My life would be miserable without him. He is my best friend. Ok, I have to go cry now. Thanks for reading this.
Awesome story. Thank you. You are an inspiration.
I did a drunk hookup months after breaking up with my ex. I didn't even want to have sex that night i was just drunk. I got pregnant,  had no job, no relationship, no education. I called around to set up an abortion, and i just couldn't do it. I felt like i broke the universe. I was a 24 hear old millennial and having unplanned babies just wasn't done and i was the worst person in the world, not for having reckless sex, but that my body had dared to get pregnant. Fortunately a crisis pregnancy center helped me get on welfare and medicaid. Within a week of an old woman telling me "no, this decision isn't hard, this decision is easy" my life was changed. I was changed. I was in love with life. My depression was gone, a depression that had lasted years. I am now married and have two boys. Life is wonderful. An abortion wouldn't have helped me get here. I would be in the same place i was. I would be 30 with none of this love. Thank God for surprises.
It's amazing how you think something will ruin you, and it ends up saving you. I'm happy you have so much love in your life, you deserve it!
Just curious, are you married to the biological father of the baby or did you meet someone new? Your story is amazing to hear. Thanks for sharing.
I ended up falling in love with an old friend when that baby was 1.5, and we got married when he was 3. I wouldn't have had the maturity or sense of responsibility for anyone to want to marry me if it wasn't for having my baby. I was a mess before him. Biodad also got his act together and his life improved immensely as well. Biodad's mom also really tried to pressure me to abort, but now that boy is the light of her life. It changed so many people's lives.
I got pregnant with a guy I knew for 2 months. I was 28 and had 2 children already, and a single mom. I was prolife already and he claimed to be,  that is until I got pregnant.  Long story short I completely removed him from our lives.  My beautiful daughter is almost 6 months old now, he's never met her and never made an effort to.  I'm still a single mom. I'm just as opposed to abortion as I ever was. I have no regrets and am completely in love with my sweet daughter.
I'm assuming he urged you to abort? You don't need that kind of negativity in your life or your children's lives! I am not a strong enough person to ever be able to raise my kids alone so the fact that you've got 3 and you're doing it alone, I am absolutely impressed by you and you should be too! <3
Yes basically,  his words were "abortion is the smartest choice,  even though we are both against it.." So at that point I knew he wasn't against it and he was hinting at me having one.  He also said I should consider adoption,  which I personally couldn't do. So I threw him to the curb and he's never met our daughter.  And thank you! I've had help from family so it hasn't really been too bad,  just a lot of work,  but worth it! The father of my first two is around and even though things didn't work between us he loves my daughter like his own. He said he wants to be the father figure in her life.
Albany rose. She had an unplanned pregnancy and she's prolife.
You beat me to it.
Not my story, but my mom’s as it was told to me by her and others. My mom got pregnant with me shortly before high school graduation. Her and my dad did not have a healthy relationship and were both into partying. Booze, drugs, and cigarettes. My mom was in a downward spiral basically, and then she found out she was pregnant. My mom was raised Catholic, and good ole Catholic guilt made an abortion not an option. My mom immediately changed her ways. My uncle says it was like a complete 180 at the flick of a switch. The early years were a struggle. Sometimes she didn’t eat so I could. She worked her tail off as a single mother until she met my stepdad (her and my father did not last long after my birth). I knew from a very early age that my mother was very dedicated to me. I have memories of the two of us hanging out in our little dark apartment. My uncle, her brother, says I saved her life. The love she had for me outweighed her desire to party, and forced her to get it together. She threw all that partying energy into parenting. Her days off were spent with me, not friends. I got to stay up late when the Cosby show was on and we would watch it together and eat popcorn. There are not enough anecdotes for me to convey how selfless my mother was when it came to her family, especially as a young single mother. Her story not only made me terrified of getting pregnant as a teen, but also made me truly appreciate the beauty of being pro-life. It made me appreciate her for giving me life despite the hardship. She drilled into me from a young age that abortion is never the answer, and made it clear that if I did find myself pregnant I could come to her. I knew there was no way I could ever have an abortion/support abortion after what my mother did for me just by having me in less than ideal circumstances. So, I guess her unplanned teen pregnancy reinforced her pro-life views and is the foundation of my own.
Did you write this just to make me cry? Such a great story and your mom sounds absolutely amazing. I hope I have had the same impact on my son, because it's the hardest thing in the world. Tell your mom she rocks.
First, you rock too! I take it at least parts of my mother’s story are similar to your own. I am sure your son has been and continues to be impacted by your love. A devoted mother is impossible to ignore. Even as a teenager who was constantly butting heads with my mother I never lost sight of the beautiful gift she had given me. I wouldn’t have admitted it then, but I knew it in my heart. My mother passed from breast cancer when I was 20, almost 13 years ago (wow, I can’t believe it has been that long). My grandmother, who was with her when she passed, told me that the only regret she had was leaving us before she was truly done raising us. I am thankful that I got the chance to apologize for my teenage years and become great friends with my mother before it was too late. Now I try my best to show my gratitude in the way I parent my own children. Keep on loving your son and doing your mama thing! A mother’s love is a powerful thing!
I’m loving these stories. Maybe someone could start a subreddit for people to share theirs

Can someone link to the subreddit this is from?
It's not from a subreddit; it was posted on Facebook.
I love Dank Pro Life Memes.
If you could prevent 10 children from dying in a school shooting or stop 11 abortions, which would you choose? edit: I do genuinely want to know the answer to this. I can't put myself in the mindspace of valuing the life of a fetus equally to the life of a child, and I really do like to understand where my opponents are coming from.
I'll answer this question but first I want to show you that  this question is both inaccurate and dishonest. Let's alter your scenario slightly: If you could save a child in a wheelchair from a fire or a child who has no deformity at all which would you save? Does saving one mean the life of the other is less valuable? Is the other child "Less alive" because you couldn't save them? That is - after all - clearly what you're trying to insinuate. Let's try this with another one. If you could save 5 children all of whom are screaming as they burn or 5 children who are mute and can very much feel pain - knowing full well you could save either, which 5 would you choose? The ones screaming as they burn or the ones suffering in silence? Are the lives of the other 5 meaningless, should they be burned alive? Is this an argument for Euthanasia of the disabled? Are you comfortable with listening to children screaming as they roast alive? Or are you more comfortable with knowing that innocent people - whom will be ignored because of their inability to call out - are being left to cruel and horrible death? I think it's clear to anyone who's being honest that yes, being able to exhibit life saving characteristics such as calling for help, reaching out to others, having spent more time with people, etc. may make you more likely to receive empathy, that being said it doesn't and never will make your life less valuable. Following the premise of your question it would be perfectly justifiable to ignore the deaths of the disabled because most people would probably seek to save those screaming bloody murder first. I'm sure you admit that devaluing their lives is disgusting and immoral. This is likely due to a lack of empathy, because unborn children look less like you they elicit less of a response, like wise their inability to call out for help makes them easy to forget. Do you think a woman who miscarries, crying and hurting over the loss of her child, is less deserving of sympathy than a woman who's newborn passed away leaving her hear broken? Is her suffering "less" because he child wasn't born yet? Does it make the clothes she bought, the crib she put together, the plans she had, the money she saved, the hopes she had for that child's future less real than the mother of the newborn? If you had to help one and only one would you leave the mother who's unborn child perished without support? Would her suicide bother you? Would it seem "silly" or "stupid" that she killed herself over someone you don't believe was human? Despite having seen it, it's little hands and feet, inside the womb all throughout the first trimester? Babies begin kicking in the womb between 17 and 22 weeks, does it make the first kicks she felt from that baby less real? I'll finish with this: If you could save your own child or 10 innocent children from a school shooting which would you save? Does your choice mean the lives of the other children were insignificant, or of lesser importance? I think you've likely grasped the inaccuracy of your question now, these forced hypothetical which will never occur really just muddy the conversation, if you held to your idea of "Lives in group A are less than Lives of Group B" through each of these scenarios you'd be a pretty objectively awful human being don't you think? I can't answer these questions for you, and I don't you'll do so, but taking my best guesses you'd be a person who: believes all lives are less than their own children, who thinks those who suffer silently should be ignored and left for death, and someone who believes that a disabled person has less value than a non-disabled person. Hopefully this was at least partially informative for you.
This, this was beautifully said.
Uh this comment deserves it's own subreddit
And what exactly is your point? We do not even think that people who lose a sports game aren't deserving of sympathy. But isn't that the issue? That pro-life people claim to be objective while pro-choice people don't, at least when it comes to their acting?

That awkward moment when a miscarriage gets compared to a destroyed shed. Anyways... The difference is that you value sentience over being human. The difference with prolife is that we value human life equally independently of utility, sentience and ability.
It's a metaphor, I was just illustrating the difference between a wanted thing being destroyed and an unwanted thing being destroyed. If I wanted you to get up early and said, "The early bird catches the worm!" would you be offended that I compared you to a bird? I value people independently of utility and ability. Sentience would only come into play if all else was equal, and only because a non-sentient person would presumably suffer less than the conscious one. It wouldn't be a judgement in whose life is worth more, it would be a mercy call. I do not consider a fetus to be a person, or have the same value as a person, simply because they have no mechanism to exist as an independent being.
There was a time when slaves were not considered people as well.  Thankfully the vast majority of societies have moved on from this barbaric position.
They weren't considered human at all, they were livestock. A fetus is a pre-human. As soon as it is viable to survive on its own it has a right to do so. Edit: Should have said pre-person, not pre-human
Oh for fucks sakes. What does that even mean? Lol. A human fetus is a human being. Or do you think they are some other species.
Thanks for making my point.  The clump of cells argument is as barbaric as the livestock definition as you put it.
No a human fetus isn’t “pre-human” it is human.  That you don’t consider them humans that should have legal rights doesn’t make them any less human. What you don’t want to attribute to them is constitutional personhood. Being a fetus is a stage in human development; you don’t magically turn into a human passing X number of weeks.
You’re still wrong after your edit. All humans are persons. Anything else is completely arbitrary.
I don't think viability is arbitrary and I wouldn't call this a person.
Viability is extremely arbitrary! It changes every year or so! Do you have any idea how early we can have children survive now as premies? And what’s your objective basis for saying that a baby a few weeks younger than one that’s currently possible to survive isn’t a person whereas the slightly older one is suddenly a person?

Remember how you said this: Guess you were lying?
Which is why I should have said "pre-person". I made a mistake.
I'm sorry, but that's literally a provable an oxymoron. Definition of Person as per the Oxford US English Dictionary: Ergo in order to be "pre-person" you'd have two choices: A) Be non-human, which is both laughable and contradictory to your earlier statement. B) An individual, which is also a laughable argument, unless you truly believe that women have 46 pairs of chromosomes you must admit that the fetus is a unique individual, it is that same DNA that proves it's humanity. A fetus is a human dependent on the mother for care - something no different than any other child. It is a person, it is a human, and it has the same needs every other human has - Food, Shelter, Protection, etc. In order to claim otherwise you must subscribe to the scientifically inaccurate view that a fetus - even having it's own uniquely identifying genetic code, something sufficient for criminal cases and identifying individuals in cases such as paternity - is part of the mother, meaning the mother has 46 pairs of chromosomes, 2 sets of feet, 2 sets of hands, etc. which is truly a backwards way of thinking that runs counter to even basic biology. I'd be really interested in hearing how you justify this.

How? Because your goal is to force the hand of people you disagree with by positing a question that: A) Will literally never happens B) Ignores the various differences you'd have in that situation and it's effect on human behavior i.e. People screaming as they were shot. C) You've also clearly shown you had no intention of answering hypothetical yourself with half-baked non-answers like "Both" as though you lack a basic understanding what a mutually exclusive choice is. Do I need to define the word "or" for you? The value is exactly the value of a human life. If I could risk my life to save an unborn child I would do so, many women do agree to lose their lives to save their unborn children. I've nothing against consensual Euthanasia, however abortion of the disabled is Eugenics - the idea that no one who doesn't match your genetic specifications should be allowed to live. Were you in charge, I certainly would have been executed in the womb. Your original intention was to force pro-lifers to choose so don't back out and give me half-baked answers. You must choose one, don't give non-answers as it shows you're unwilling or unable to answer your own style of hypothetical. They take equal effort so choose. Yes, our base nature may compel us to kill anything that's inconvenient for us for example, I choose to think above that and see everyone's humanity - even if they don't look like me. Likewise I don't seek to murder children just because they're in conflict with my self interests. That would be a pretty extreme level of barbarism. You've made it clear that anyone who isn't exactly like you isn't worthy of protection. The more they're like you the more love and protection they deserve, you've made that abundantly clear. You also think so little of them that you believe they have no self-control, are they dogs that can't stop humping? I thought we should think "above our base nature"? She can easily get a tubal ligation and never concern herself with that, if you'd like to hand out tubal ligation then by all means. Many who support planned parenthood agree with this, most of which considered black people to be such a defect. As someone who is legally blind and is living a wonderful life I am eternally grateful such people were not around at the time. "Be perfect or die" is a pretty disgusting world view in my honest opinion, I won't wish death on someone just because they aren't perfect. You feel no empathy for children who have death/disability forced on them however. This is why others like yourself have forced bars to serve pregnant women despite the fact that Fetal Alcohol Syndrome is the leading cause of preventable birth defects. Indeed you continue to dehumanize those people, disabling them as a result. Not to mention those who endure the torture of abortion and live, interesting fact she had a twin bother whom she cuddled in the womb however thanks to people who feel very much like you, he is now lost to her. I do wonder what you would say to the babies that survive your assassination attempts "We should have killed you when we had the chance!" perhaps? Or "How dare you live!" maybe? Do you hate children that survive abortions? No my empathy is focused on the Children, because Children are defenseless. You opt to think of women and treat them as helpless adolescents, I treat them as mature adults who should know better and be held to standards. One of us respects women and assumes they're strong enough to endure the other thinks little of them and thinks killing is the best we can do to help. It wasn't a child was it? After all to quote yourself you "don't think of fetuses as people" to you it was just a worthless hunk of cells, like if she had lost a pen right? After all if that child has an impairment like I do you'd have CELEBRATED and fought for her choice to kill it. So you've acknowledge that an unborn child and a newborn child have equal value, you've also tacitly admitted that they're people, after all if they're equally valuable then either being a person is irrelevant or they're both people right? Congratulations on your breakthrough! Your analogy is weak here, it takes two to make a baby. It would be more like if you said I want to mash a button that may deploy a shed, because it's fun to press, but I don't want responsibility for it, so the shed should be bulldozed. Ah so if a woman was pregnant and didn't want the child it wouldn't be sad? To say "You're only human if I want you to be." is pretty awful. I'm an atheist myself but I'm curious: What makes you think you're god? What makes you think you deserve to end lives and define which human beings are "pure" enough to live? Would it be wrong for a woman to say "I don't want a black baby" and kill it? Is the murder of unborn girls in China okay since the families don't want them? This is a downright lie, if you could save 11 serial rapists or their 10 victims who would you save? You'd save the kids. Don't be upset just because I turned your faulty hypothetical on you. You're implying that we must choose one or the other in this hypothetical so why won't you commit to a choice? Again, assuming you're equally able to save both and you can only save one which one do you save? To answer your original question bluntly because you seem unable to do so: While this question is flawed for all the reasons I pointed out above (noting that you yourself refused to answer this very same style of hypothetical with anything that showed commitment and honesty) I can say that there's a lot of factors besides "Are they equal". I need some assurances to make this equivalent, for example I'm sure the children in the shooting would likely suffer horrible deaths (being shot results in a horrible experience, many die from choking on their own blood for example) I'd need the situation to have equal suffering as I don't want people to suffer horrible deaths. However on the other hand many forms of abortion are just as barbaric such as burning them alive with saline. If I had to get killed quickly in order to keep someone from burning to death I'd do it hands down, I don't want to watch that happen to someone. So let's assume that your question becomes: This is far more honest, and without accounting for the chance of survival among the groups, I could much more easily say that I'd stop the 11 abortions especially since people will rush in to save the children (usually - unless the government fails to act as the officers in the Florida shooting did, which is precisely why citizens should be armed) yet few would save those who couldn't call for help.
You are putting so many words in my mouth it's not even worth bothering to continue this discussion. I never said you had to make a binary choice. If I had said 10 children and 10 abortions I would have expected you to answer the same way I did, "no preference," which is why I added an abortion, to see if you would answer as expected. The original meme compared children shot in school shootings to abortions as if they were literally the same thing, I wasn't the one who suggested that equivalency.
>  The original meme compared children shot in school shootings to abortions as if they were literally the same thing Incorrect, the original meme merely pointed out that Planned Parenthood is actually responsible for killing children, while the NRA is not. Indeed planned parenthood has directly killed millions of children. The point of the meme was not "Shooting school children is the same as killing unborn children" as clearly that's a joke - one does not involve people being left to choke on their own blood (although abortion can be equally horrific, especially in late term abortions which democrats continue to push for) for example. The point was to point out the hypocrisy of a giant corporation that exists to kill babies claiming an organization who has never had a single one of their members commit one of these shootings is 'killing kids". The gun in the image is just part of the original image, and part of the meme template and is not relevant to the meme itself. I've seen the same gun image used with non-lethal things such as "Not studying" shooting their GPA and saying "Why would my professor do this to me!" the point is to expose a disconnect with reality, if this went over your head then I can see where your poorly formatted hypothetical came from. Still, doesn't make your case however. Let me make it "10 and 11" to ease your difficulties. If you could save 10 children screaming for mercy and writhing and agony as they burned alive calling out for help or 11 children whom sat their silently as they were mute which would you save? Both require 100% equal effort and the choice is mutually exclusive, you must pick one. See how counter productive this is? It's not the number that's significant, unless you're telling you can handle hearing children scream as their hands melt to their face, it's the situation. The lives are equal the situation is not, but you should immediately admit that both involve the death of human beings and are a tragedy. I would not be able to blame a person for saving the 11 fetuses over the 10 kids, or the 10 kids over the 11 fetuses as I am not the one in the situation. However, I think it's common sense most would save those that could look them in the eye and say "Help me" not to mention the blood and gore - the exception to this is the police officers who did nothing and stayed outside, however I believe they are outliers as in the Texas church shooting for example an individual citizen engaged with the gunman. Your hypothetical was pointless and you have still failed to grasp this, you've also been found to be mixing up your own statements frequently which leads me to believe you're improvising as you go.
If you consider abortions to be the same thing as killing children. What do you consider "late" term? What democrats are pushing for late term abortions? How many abortions are done late term? You can't be serious, PP does not exist to kill babies. It exists to help women take care pf their bodies. No, the Eric Andre meme did not go over my head. To me it seems obvious to save the 11. I mean of course in reality that would be traumatic. Thought experiments aren't reality though Yes, I agree. No it wasn't, I've learned a lot. I did that once. And yes I am improvosing as I go, searching my heart for how I feel and answering. Would you rather I be spouting rehearsed answers?
Is drinking alcohol during pregnancy reprehensible? What about taking a 3 month old baby days before the abortion limit and skinning it alive? Still reprehensible right? It's a child, you can lie to yourself all you want but it's a child and you know it. You have enough base humanity in you somewhere to say "this is wrong" I'm certain, you should be able to come to the conclusion of why it's wrong "It's a child", it's wrong for the same reason the woman with the miscarriage grieves, she's not some stupid fool crying over a shed, she's crying over a baby - a living human being which thanks to science we already know a lot about. We know it's race, it's hair color, it's eye color, it's proclivities to certain diseases, we can even get good estimates on things like height. That is a child, abusing it in the womb is wrong, killing it in the womb is murder. Anything after three months as the definition of late term implies, you can see here although the "First Trimester" separation is illogical and faulty at best just like the rest of the "viability" barriers, the child isn't any more "viable" at 24 months than it was at 23 months 29 days. For example, by week 10 the child has a heartbeat of it's own which can be monitored electronically, a huge milestone for "not being alive". This is the reason why pro-choicers hate showing women Ultrasounds, they can see the baby and it invokes a parental response. It is in pro-choicers best interests to keep women ignorant of what's actually happening in their body lest it invoke a parental response. It is also for this reason that pro-choices opt not to mention the tremendous guilt abortion often leaves a woman with. This makes sense especially knowing that Cambridge found a moderate to highly increased risk of mental health problems after abortion As for how many support it, enough that all but three voted no to a bill that banned second trimester abortions which is disgusting to say the least and indicative of the fact that many believe there should be no restrictions at all. We also know that all the necessary development for the baby to feel pain occurs prior to 26 weeks. Yet democrats are unwilling to even pass legislation to require anesthesiology on such children, most likely as they don't want to humanize the unborn baby which they still want people to feel comfortable killing. Further evidence that you lack basic human empathy, I'm willing to bet that most people would likely save the ones whose screams they could hear, the science is their for this as well: Not feeling any sympathy for people screaming in pain shows your brain has a reduced capacity to empathize with the pain of others, to be able to ignore children as they literally call for you is also a bad sign indicative of a pathology. Glad I could help educate you, my favorite part was when you admitted unborn children were in fact children and that they had equivalent value. No I'd rather you be giving answers that required a period of consideration, not trying to rapidly cover you ideological loopholes. When you repeatedly find yourself making flawed statements like "pre-human" when you yourself said that "you wouldn't say fetuses aren't a living human organism" it should become clear to you that you're just trying to blind yourself to the obersable inconsistencies within your thought patterns.
I don't think so, but if you're planning in keeping the baby it's pretty stupid. Of course I don't think anything should be skinned alive, but if a human passes away I have no problem with their skin being scientifically collected for research. She grieves from loss. Her grief doesn't make a woman's grief over being pregnant any less real. Ok, come on now, you know I was using a metaphor. Stop trying to implicate that I consider a fetus to be equal to a shed. She's crying because she lost the opportunity to meet and raise her baby, which she was looking forward to. She probably cried about every negative pregnancy test too, but she was crying about a hypothetical future baby then. Killing people isn't always murder. Self defense isn't considered murder, and I consider abortions to be killing in self defense. I'm sorry that is not late term. Most people consider late term to be after 20 weeks or in the 3rd trimester. 14 weeks is not late term. Sometimes women don't even find out they're pregnant until then. Which is why I think medical professionals should make that call on a case by case basis rather than government deciding. This is the first thing you've said that has made me pretty steamed. The government wants to mandate that women be forced to have a metal rod stuck up their vaginas, and you think that's cool? I trust women to make their own decisions, and I don't want to force women to create an emotional bond with something they decided logically they can not have. If you're worried about women being ignorant of the stages of fetal development you could push to have that taught clearly in sex ed. I do not want women to be ignorant whatsoever. In fact if more girls were aware of what will happen to them later in the pregnancy and during birth more may have abortions. I've heard from tons of women with no regrets or guilt about their decision. Do you have a source to back up that "often"? It's not up to the government to ban things because people might feel guilty about them. PPD is a major issue and can lead to suicide, shouldn't pregnant women be warned about that before they choose to keep the baby? Good, the government shouldn't be banning medical procedures. What if a woman who truly wanted her baby found out it has no internal organs and would die after birth? Do you want to force that woman to carry that sorrow around for a month or two? A very small number of abortions are done that late and they're pretty much always because of fetal or maternal health. A woman who doesn't want to be pregnant isn't going to choose to wait that long. There may be instances where you can't anesthetize the fetus without harming the mother, maybe she's barely clinging to life. Again these are decisions I trust doctors to make. You continue to make assumptions about me that are wildly untrue. I have immense empathy. If someone starts crying and I see them I will cry too because I can feel their sadness. A thought experiment is not the real world. Of course in a real world situation like any of these I would probably be paralyzed by grief and fear. My choice to save 11 over 10 is a purely pragmatic and mathmatical one. The idea of actually having to hear children screaming and dying is frightening indeed. My metaphor must have soared over your head. Remember the crucial second shed, the one squatters were putting up? That shed has no value and gets torn down! All I acknowledged is that to a woman who wants her baby, losing the pregnancy and the fetus is as sad as losing the baby because it is wanted. That was the entire point of that metaphor and you managed to completely miss it. responding to the other post here for simplicity's sake Oh come on now. When would the news, in any country, in any era, have reported on 12 pregnant women dying as "24 people" dying? Having distinct genetic material does not make you a "person". Have you heard of Chimeras? They have 2 distinct individual sets of dna, 2 different sets of 23 pairs of chromosomes. They are scientifically two individuals, but of course we regard them as one person. Or people who are born with parts of their twin attached, we consider them one person even though they contain the DNA of two. Yes, science tells us that a pregnant woman and her fetus are two individuals, and no one would disagree. But we don't count the fetus against fire code capacity limits, because society does not regard a fetus as an individual person until it is born. So I say "I think the disabled should be allowed to choose to die" and you call that a proclivity for eugenics? Or was it because I said women should be able to choose whether they want to bring a child into the world if there could be something wrong with it? Please read this before saying that women should have to give birth to babies who could have disabilities. Come on now, you're telling me that if someone showed you a slide and said there was a blastocyst on it, would you tell someone later that you saw a dead person laying on a glass slide earlier? As I said, you probably shouldn't drink if you want to give birth to the baby. ..... Statistics about abortion are irrelevant, you don't know that the people who support limiting abortion do so because they think the fetus is a "person". When a pregnant woman calls a restaurant to make reservations for her and her husband, and the receptionist asks, "How many people?" does she say 3? If you wanted to point at something a pregnant woman was standing next to, would you say, "over by those two people"? No. We do not refer to a pregnant woman's fetus as a person until it is born. Ok so we've gone from accusing me of supporting eugenics to actually practicing it now? Apparently according to that Gallup poll I am in the minority, although I wouldn't call myself an outlier. All this discussion about whether a fetus is a person to me is meaningless. I do not support forced pregnancy, and that is my position on the matter.
Let's recap what I've learned from you so far. You'd easily ignore people screaming for help as they burned. You'd have no problem with, in fact you seem to encourage killing those with disabilities in the womb, this shows strong support for Nazi style Eugenics. You can see no humanity in a child, comparing them to innanimate objects and implying that they're worthless unless they're wanted. You don't find giving children birth defects reprehensible, although you do think it's "stupid" I assume you think it's somewhat akin to leading you car keys in your car? You don't grasp the concept of a woman having a miscarriage, seeing her babies little feet and hands, and crying not over a prospective child, but a child, one she cared for, one she ate specific meals for, one she asked "Is it okay to take painkillers? I don't want to hurt my baby" and endured pain for as a result. You consider a grown adult killing the most defenseless children "self defense". You seem to have no expectation that women not fuck like dogs if they want children or for them to get a tubal ligation if they're permanently uninterested, despite claiming that we should "think above our base nature". You think unborn children should have their eyes popped out of their skulls, their skulls crushed, their limbs ripped off - all while they can feel pain, you don't see anything wrong with this. You don't think any amount of humane treatment is necessary here, the mothers convenience comes first and you don't think there should be any burden to otherwise. You don't think children are people "Until they are born" meaning you support abortion up to the last minute - you support killing fully developed children. You 5 seconds ago: "I'd not save the people who were screaming for help" People cry at movies for Christs' sake, you literally said you'd ignore the screams of burning children. Not frightening enough that you'd commit to saving them. Again, no because the media is liberal however people who kill pregnant women are charged with double homicide in countless countries and states, Indiana being one such location. "Something wrong with it" oh how vague. You never did answer my question what if she thinks being black is 'something wrong with it'? What if it being a little girl is 'something wrong with it'? You promote Eugenics and feticide, don't try to sugarcoat it, you have good company with the most evil individuals in human history. You're really good at faulty analogy, why does the receptionist ask "How many people?" it's because of seating, that is literally the only reason. An unborn child doesn't need a seat so she requires seating for two, please think before you concoct these half-baked metaphors. Yes, we do, they're called baby showers and nearly ever single woman will want and have one, yes despite the fact that it isn't born. Everyone there will give her tips on how to take care of her baby in the womb, ask her how often he/she kicks, etc. It's human, it's a person, it's a baby, everyone knows this but you. Absolutely, that was a person, a person we can know a lot about, their hair color, their eye color, even basic knowledge of personality and which traits they got from their mother and father. Again if that "blastocyst" was a woman's miscarriage she'd be heart broken, it's not any less her baby to her. Women have begun seeking DNA tests to find out what their baby was going to be like later on in life. I absolutely do, and your failure to suggest a counter argument shows you know I'm right. People don't call something "morally wrong" unless they think it's hurting people. Your dismissal of the evidence while being unable to cite any supporting evidence or reasoning for your counter claims makes it abundantly clear that you have no argument. You've clearly stated you fully support it, I'm sure you'll also say you support black feticide and female feticide as well, after all you see no humanity in them. You don't see humanity in preborn children, so if it's used to commit racial genocide then I'm sure you'll see no problem with it as well. Yes, yes you are. Most people disagree with you vehemently, I'd say that makes you a statistical outlier. It is, because you lack basic human empathy. You will do anything to justify murder for your convenience. Less than a fraction of a percent of abortion are rape related, no one is forcing women to be pregnant, they choose to have sex (a reproductive act, take it up with biology) something that every single person above the age of 10 knows creates a baby. You think we should "think above our base nature" yet you don't think women should do so. I don't support forced pregnancy either, but I also don't think women are children or dumb animals I expect them to behave as mature adults, any person in a rough situation deserves care regardless of their age or sex but I won't relieve them of the responsibility they have for their situation. I do wonder what you'd do with a baby who survived an abortion, something you failed to answer. In fact what if the baby was still alive on the table? Would you save it? The answer from Planned Parenthood is a resounding no they wouldn't save the baby even though they could. Do you consider that immoral? Should that be outlawed? I'm fairly certain you'll say no. You know what I think? I think you hate women, you want to use them as sex toys dump your semen in them and avoid child support by killing the children, you fear being held responsible so you force the woman to endure something that is scientifically proven to cause her immense harm. Any reason you can find to justify the killing is fine by you as long as she remains a sex object for you to use. It's a pattern I see often in people like you. You're a murderer, a cold blooded murderer, one who has no problem ignoring the screams of burning children. Edit: These are your people, much empathy, such kindness. Abortion lives by lying to women, hiding the truth, and then selling the human limbs for profit. There's nothing empathetic about that.

If you could prevent your own child from dying or 5 adults who would you choose. I’d choose my child but it does not follow that the adults do not have a right to life or that they are not of equal worth to my child. But to be honest, I would probably choose to stop the 11 abortions. Again though, if someone would choose another way it really wouldn’t prove your point because you are misunderstanding the crux of the prolife position.
I wasn't trying to prove any points, I don't know why everyone thinks I was. Thanks for your answer!
Because prochoice people come on and pose this question a lot. Usually as a bad attempt at proving that we don't really care about preborn children. Usually framed like [this](http://blog.secularprolife.org/2013/10/pro-choice-thought-experiment-burning.html). So, why did you ask it?
I think most people would choose to save the 10 children from a school shooting. That is our moral instinct. However, our moral instinct isn’t always the morally right choice. For example, would you save your 5 year old child from dying in a fire or would you save 5 adults? Most people would choose their child, but that doesn’t mean it’s the choice we should make. Here’s an article that might help you understand what I’m trying to say: https://www.dailywire.com/news/22360/pro-abortion-fanatic-presented-thought-experiment-ben-shapiro?amp&__twitter_impression=true
I guess my question is about what you think the morally right and most ethical choice would be. I want to know if you truly value a fetus the same as a child.
You're still asking the wrong question. By your mindset, choosing to save one means its ok to actively kill the other. We are saying that by choosing one, you can't declare that the one you didn't choose has no moral worth and we can kill them.
That's not my mindset. I want to know if you literally value a child's life as much as you value a fetus's, and if you really are as upset about a child dying in a school shooting as you are about a fetus being aborted? Are abortion doctors as evil as school shooters? I didn't make the comparison, the original meme did. I'm just questioning it.
Yes I do value a child's life as much as a fetus. I am just as upset about abortion as school shooting. HOWEVER. I would save my child over a pregnant woman. I would save my child over 6 trillion fetuses. I would save my sisters infant sons over 30 grown adults. I would save my 90 year old grandmother over 10 teenagers. None of this matters because I value all humans equally. I don't love them all equally, but they are all valuable. To say that I would save my son over a pregnant woman doesn't mean "it is ok to kill pregnant women." By asking that question in the frame of pro-lifer vs. pro-choice, you are saying that "unless you choose the fetuses over the adults, you can't tell us to stop killing the fetuses." I can tell you to stop killing human beings REGARDLESS of whether or not i'd choose to save them over someone else. You are asking "who would you save?" Abortion asks "Who would you kill?"
I think I personally would choose to prevent the abortions, assuming I don’t know anyone involved in either case, but I completely can understand how someone would instinctively choose to save the children in the shooting
Thanks for your honest answer!
No problem, thank you for being so open!
You're getting flak for this question because 99.99% of the time it's being asked in order to imply something baseless, that is if you answer the children, you don't really care about fetuses and/or fetuses don't deserve the right to not be killed unjustly if you answer the fetuses, you don't really care about children killed in school shootings and/or you're crazy Tell me you're not making any of these implications.
I am not making any of these implications. I would expect pro lifers to choose the fetuses because to them they are equal to the children and saving 11 is better than saving 10. I wanted to test if my understanding of the pro-life viewpoint was accurate. I like to understand other sides' viewpoints so I can examine my own more completely. People with a different viewpoint bring up things I never would have thought of.
If you could prevent 10 people from dying in a school shooting or stop 11 comatose people from dying - the prognosis for each one is unknown - which would you choose?
I would choose the sentient people, because the comatose people wouldn't feel any fear or pain and some may have died anyway. Now, if I knew that all 11 comatose people would for sure recover 100% and suffer no long lasting effects, and that they would be aware of and fear their impending deaths, I would probably choose the coma people.
So you're saying there are facts relevant to triage situations that aren't relevant to right to life considerations and therefore just because you choose one group over another doesn't entail the group you didn't choose lacks any value or a right to life?
I'm saying I value peoples' lives equally and they would all have an equal right to life in that scenario, but I would try to choose the option that is least negatively impactful overall. I already know pro-lifers think fetuses have a right to life. The meme posted suggests that you view a child dying in a school shooting as equivalent to an abortion, and I wanted to explore how far that equivalency goes.

?
You keep answering your own questions.
Lol. I cant believe how it just goes right over their heads.
I didn't ask a question.
This is a complicated situation without an easy answer. One could argue that 11>10 so its easy, but it’s more than that. There are a lot of factors at play here. For one, most pro-lifers are pro-life because they believe that human lives trump human comfort. The vast majority of abortions are performed because the woman “isn’t ready for children” or isn’t financially prepared, etc. Those are legitimate issues, but they don’t justify killing the unborn. When it comes to the dilemma of life vs life, things get tricky. Most pro-lifers would allow abortions for life threatening pregnancies, but how exactly do you define “life-threatening”? Technically all pregnancies are life threatening (i think it’s .0012% of pregnancies that end in death. Very small amount but it does happen). One could argue that only pregnancies with 100% chance of the woman dying and 100% chance of the fetus living allow for abortions because you are choosing between 2 equally valuable people. If the fetus is 100% going to die if the woman dies, then you’re weighing 2 lives against 1 and abortion is a choice when there’s a 33% chance of the woman dying. However, I’d bet that most pro-lifers would say it’s justified to abortion if there’s a 20% chance of the woman dying. This would suggest that ceteris paribus, the woman’s life is more valuable than the unborn. So the waters get muddied when you compare life to life rather than life to comfort, but 99% of abortions are done out of comfort, so we have a lot of lives to fight for. Also, while death is generally worse than suffering, death and suffering trumps painless death. So if the scenario was 11 painless deaths or 10 tortures that didn’t end in death, the answer would be simple. However, many would argue that 10 painful deaths are worse that 11 painless ones. Second, if we did have the time to think critically about all the different aspects of this circumstance before making a decision, we would get to create and algebraic formula with many variables to come up with our answer. For example, if the goal is to save as many lives as possible, then we’d have to know when the unborn were conceived. If the unborn are 3 weeks old, then there’s a 30% chance of each being miscarried. That needs to be taken into consideration. The expected outcome of the 11 embryos would be 7 or 8 babies being born. Compare that with the 10 children, who presumably have no significant risks of dying anytime soon, and the answer becomes clear that you should save the 10 children. That’s just one example, but you get my point, there are a lot  of factors at play here. I appreciate the curiosity about pro-life positions in hypothetical scenarios, but they don’t say much about the movement as a whole. Often, people try to create hypothetical scenarios that would never actually happen in order to try and point out hypocrisy in the ideology. This is silly. I assume you aren’t doing that. But I’m guessing what you’re trying to find out is if pro-lifers actually value the life of the unborn equally to the life of the mother. I would say that typically, no we don’t, though I can’t speak for everyone. However, like I said earlier, most abortions are done out of convenience, which we all want to stop.
Fyi, It's more like 0.0264% of pregnancies that end in death, 22 times the number you listed, in the US at least. This is how I view everything you just said. A woman's role as a womb is more important than her comfort, her career, or her financial stability. A woman who finds herself pregnant should be forced to remain pregnant, despite the high risk of disfigurement or low risk of death, and despite the permanent chemical changes that the body undergoes during pregnancy. Through all of those numbers I see that you think it is ok to take the life of a fetus in certain scenarios. You just happen to think that financial or mental health reasons are not legitimate ones. I think that the choice should be left up to the mother and her doctor. This is where we disagree. The only reason I asked the question was because the OP directly equates children dying in school shootings with abortions, and I find that to be a pretty ridiculous comparison.
Ah yes, it seems I have carried the decimal one place too far. It also depends on what year you look at and who your source is, but even using your number, the chances of dying during pregnancy is very small. It can also be quite predictable who is at higher risk. It is the life of the unborn that is more important than her comfort, career, or financial stability. The focus is not on the womb, but a separate human life. Both the life of the unborn and the comfort/career/financial stability of the woman are very important, but life always trumps comfort/career/finances. I disagree with your language when you say “finds herself pregnant”. The vast majority of the time, the woman willingly and knowingly engages in the activity that leads to conception. No one just stumbles upon pregnancy. But ya, again, life trumps preference. Yes that is correct. If it’s life to life, that’s up to the woman. If it’s life to preference, it shouldn’t be up to the woman. I understand that, given that you are pro-choice. Though how often does the doctor really urge the woman towards either decision except in life or death scenarios? It seems to me like it’s really just up to the woman. It’s just a meme meant to give pro-lifers a giggle, not an argument used for debate. I’ve seen a few memes on the pro-choice sub that ruffled my feathers, but I did my best to take it for what it is
Here's one for you,too. I'm going to push either your mother, or an eight year old off a cliff. Remember, whoever you choose not to save isn't a person.
I never insinuated that with my scenario. As I have stated many times, the original post compared shooting kids to performing abortions and I wanted to know how far that equivalency went. If you were going to push my mother or two eight year olds off the cliff my answer is easy, push my mom. It's better to save 2 people than 1. I would of course be crushed and destroyed by having my mother killed, but the ethical decision is to save the children. Your scenario, where it's one-to-one, I may still choose the child just because my mom probably would want me to, since they have their whole life ahead of them. But it would certainly be more difficult.
The thing with these scenarios is that they evoke an emotional reaction, not a logical one.
I answer them logically. They're thought experiments after all, you don't have to actually do these things.
The entire point of a thought experiment is to get an idea of how you would respond in real life.
I disagree, I think they're used to gauge peoples opinions on things.
....You do realise you said basically the same thing, right?
My opinion is that an 8 year old child has more life left to live than my mother, so it makes more sense to save the child. I can say this without emotion. If I was literally standing near a cliff with a child and my mother and some psycho wanted me to choose I would probably dissolve into a puddle of fear and grief and I would probably panic and choose my mother. I really have no idea how I would actually react in such an insane situation so I honestly can't say. edit: That's why they they're called thought experiments, they only involve thinking, not emotion.
Sums  up your comparison pretty nicely There are a lot of elements that go into who to save and why, and it doesn't mean that the group/person you don't save is not a human being with value.


Murder isn't a human right, go figure.
Logical statement
it's about as much of a human right as slavery is
it's kind of sad that this statement that basically says murdering babies isn't a human right is a controversial statement to some.
Heres a question: should forcing someone into existence be a human right?
I'm gonna guess you're not pro-choice then.
Why do my personal views alter the validity of the question?
Because I believe, just like all pro-choicers believe and pro-lifers believe, that a woman should always have the final say in whether or not she reproduces. It's up to no one to decide that for her...and according to biology, she is specifically designed to do that very thing: bring new people into the world. The difference between pro-lifers and pro-choicers is that we recognize that she has already reproduced by getting pregnant, and therefore can't kill it. So if you're not pro-life, and you're not pro-choice, what are you exactly?
If reproduction is complete at the time of conception, why does so much of the reproductive process remain at that point?
By reproductive process do you mean development? I didn't say fully developed. I said reproduction has already happened. A genetically unique human being has been created.
I’m talking about all of the stages described under the “Process” subheading on that Wikipedia page, i.e., copulation, pregnancy, birth and parental care.
Still makes no sense. Reproduction happens when a human being is created at fertilization. All other stages of the reproductive processes take place afterward and are simply development. Just because it's referred to as a reproductive process, doesn't mean you haven't already reproduced. Someone has still reproduced even if they haven't given birth yet. Their offspring still exists.
So reproduction ends at fertilization, yet the process of reproduction does not end at fertilization. Do I understand you correctly?
Not really, no. I didn't say reproduction ends at fertilization. I said reproduction has already taken place. You cannot reverse reproduction by ending a pregnancy. All you can do is interrupt development by ending the pregnancy. None of this prevents reproduction, it has already taken place.

Hey, 010209010908080, just a quick heads-up:existance is actually spelled existence. You can remember it by ends with -ence.Have a nice day! The parent commenter can reply with 'delete' to delete this comment.
Currently Minnesota is run by pro abortion governor Mark Dayton, running to replace him is Pro Life Tim Pawlenty, here's how you can help him WIN!:Volunteer: We need people on the ground making sure voters turnout and you can help even if you're from another state (by travelling here or phone banking), more info here - http://www.timpawlenty.com/join-us/Donating: At the moment the pro abortion Democrats are leading in fundraising and have been given hundreds of thousands by radical pro abortion organizations. Tim needs YOUR help to bridge this gap and you can do so here - https://secure.anedot.com/timpawlenty/donatetodayKeep informed: You can keep informed of the latest campaign news here - https://www.facebook.com/timpawlentyVoting: Perhaps the most important job of all! Make sure you get out to vote on November 6th 2018! If you need to register to vote then see here: https://vote.gov/Absentee: If you're serving in the military or aren't able to make it to election day for ANY reason see here for absentee ballots: https://www.fvap.gov/
Minnesota already has a pro life State Legislature. But we still need to go further and secure the Governor's seat so we can pass pro life laws in the state.

I dislike Trump immensely for a plethora of reasons and will never consider myself a 'supporter' of him. Nonetheless, the mainstream Democratic Party votes to fund Planned Parenthood who funnels millions of dollars back to their pro-abortion candidates so that PP can receive more funding at the expense of the American taxpayer. So pardon me if I chuckle a bit at their distress.
there really wasnt much excuse for pro-lifers not to vote trump imo
Well, I mean one could consider Trump the lesser of two evils, vote for him, and still not be a Trump supporter. A person could also live in a state like California or New York where Trump is not going to win anyways, and vote third party in protest of the choices available to them. I'm not antagonizing you for your decision, I'm just saying there are plenty of reasons to consider alternative viewpoints.
Yup, I live in a super blue state and voted 3rd party, totally agree with you.
If you live in a state like California and vote for someone other than trump (but vote pro life/republican on the other ballots) then I think it can be justified. If you didn't vote in a state like Florida, then no.
How about the fact that he's probably the most harmful thing about our country right now? Its not that hard.
How?
I'm not 100% sure there's a point in giving any examples since you will likely just dismiss them but here goes: Tax cuts that made the rich richer, because tickle down economics is a scam. Every word that comes out of his mouth is a lie, including lying about criminal activity. and Its inexcusable at this point His administration is a revolving door of scum with no stability whatsoever. He chooses to surround himself with criminals. I don't need a link for this because its common knowledge. Anywhere from the indictments and guilty pleas in the Russian investigation, to his very own personal attorney. He spends more time on vacation than any human being on this planet. While taxpayers pay for it. And those funds go straight into his pocket, since he still owns his businesses. Emoluments. Affairs. NDAs. Actual recording of him being a scumbag (access hollywood, John Barron, etc.). Using twitter to attack private citizens, intimidate witnesses, attack the free press, even so far as suggesting they be imprisoned. I can't go on anymore. How the actual fuck can you excuse even 1 one those? We don't have a president right now, as far as I am concerned.
he's backing pro-life causes? i'd trade anything to stop the american holocaust
He's not stopping "the american holocaust" and never will. Using some pro-life buzzwords on the campaign trail doesn't mean anything to me, and it shouldn't mean anything to anyone else either. Even if we suspend reality for a second and assume he's telling the truth when he says he's pro-life, and somehow makes abortion illegal. Is the sizzling pile of ash that was American going to say "WELL AT LEAST HE MADE ABORTION ILLEGAL." I am so pro-life its not even funny. Its one of the most important things to me. I will never leave something so important up to someone as absolutely and malignantly destructive as him.
Yeh if anything he's gonna end the Korean conflict, so much for a pile of ash. You're willing to pass up the Supreme court, which is what will change abortion because of your pride. If you can live with that, go for it. We kill between 1M to 600k a year, if that's not a holocaust, idk what is
What I can't live with is actively supporting something I feel so strongly against. I can't watch American fall this hard, and have people suffer so greatly, so that I can pretend our president is pro-life. Fuck that.
courts are becoming pro-life regardless of what potus may personally feel or not feel. You are a useful idiot to the abortionists
He’s killed so many millions of citizens and all of our lives are worse for his having been elected!!!1!!
I didn't say that but ok
He’s turning the frogs gay!
I don't think I've ever been so embarrassed to be on this subreddit.
Your rhetoric didn’t make you self aware, but you’re happy to criticize others?
My 'rhetoric' involved factual statements. Or maybe you didn't look at that part. I'm sorry if that makes you uncomfortable.
Not factual in the slightest. You gave your very wrong opinion about Trump so I poked fun.

How
If Cecile Richards is upset, I’m even happier to have voted for Trump.
This is why Trump was a good choice.
This is the best tl;dr I could make, original reduced by 66%. (I'm a bot) Extended Summary | FAQ | Feedback | Top keywords: Trump#1 women#2 she's#3 White#4 House#5
Can we stop posting about trump? To even be associated with him is embarrassing. It's not helping our cause.
Trump has gotten more pro life policy proposed than any president for the past 10 years.
Considering that only includes Obama and the very tail end of W, that's not saying much.
We've had one other president in the last 10 years.

Surely the takeaway here is that abortions should be obligatory for all pregnant 14-year-olds. Pregnancy and birth is a much bigger deal than an abortion.
Here in California you can't be given Advil by the school nurse but they can notify Planned Parenthood so that same teenager can get an abortion without their parents knowing!
But why should a 14 year old abuse victim be forced to give birth?
Why should a child be executed because his father is an abuser?
A 14 year old cant cross the street safely, but she should be expected to give birth and raise a child?
Adoption
And yet she’d still have to give birth, which already has an incredibly high fatality rate in adult women, and an absolutely insane rate for young girls.   So she should risk permanent injury or death? How is that pro life?
According to the CDC, maternal mortality in 2013 was about 17 per 100,000. Mortality rate for an abortion? About 100,000 per 100,000. This isn't even a debate.
Nicely said.
I believe the suffering of a 14 year old child > any supposed suffering of a fetus smaller than an apricot.
So it's okay to kill someone if you do it painlessly?
That isn't really what I said, more that it's acceptable when a child abuse victim will be the one suffering much more
So it's okay to kill one person to ease the suffering of another person?
When that person is the cause of the suffering of the other person and is also a fetus, then in my opinion yes.
Why does the other person have to be a fetus?
Great. But your opinion about pain and suffering should have no bearing on legislation so your point is pretty valueless. Anyone can say I believe x’s pain and suffering  > y’s pain and suffering. Why should that opinion have an determining effect on the rights of an individual?
Right back at you. There's no evidence that fetuses feel pain at the time when the majority of abortions are done. So your opinion about a fetus' pain and suffering should have no bearing on legislation. Why should that opinion have a determining effect on the right of a 14 year old to get an abortion? If it is up for debate at all, I'm advocating that we err on the side of not forcing a 14 year old to go through childbirth.
I agree. It shouldn't.
I recommend you read the rules of this sub before commenting again.
I wouldn’t call that a particularly heinous comment...
Which is why they're receiving a warning first.
So it's okay to kill someone if you do it painlessly?
I'm assuming you weren't meaning to direct this question at me.
Is there some way I can blame this on Reddit's redesign?
Yeah I got a glimpse of it earlier but I haven't seen it since, it was kind of random.
Rapists shouldn’t be allowed to breed. I would commit suicide if I were forced to breed a rape baby. Sure I’m not the only one who feels this way.
You're assuming some of us don't have a rape exception. Pregnancy from rape is rare. Pregnancy from child rape is even rarer. Why do people jump on that as if it's the norm? Most teenage pregnancies aren't from rape.
The article is saying that 14 year old victims shouldn't have abortions.
My comment had nothing to do with that. I was taking fault with their bringing up pregnancy from abuse/rape in a discussion that had nothing to do with that.
I'm not following why you're saying the discussion had nothing to do with that? That is what the article is about, and my first comment is the one you took issue with and that comment was responding to the article posted here.
The article is about whether a 14 year old should be able to walk into a planned parenthood and get an abortion no questions asked. You asked whether a 14 year old abuse victim should be forced to give birth. They are two entirely different questions requiring to entirely different answers.
The article is about how 14 year old abuse victims shouldn't be allowed to consent to abortions. If they aren't able to get an abortion, then by definition they are being forced to give birth.
Being forced into breeding a rape baby is like being forced to submit to torture. Pregnancy is painful and physically debilitating even when planned.
Yes, I know. I've been pregnant and given birth multiple times. I also said some of us have a rape exception so idk what you're going on about.

(I'm a part of the first Live Action college group formed by Lila Rose, so don't take me as being hostile to the overall message.) I've heard that this video is misleading because it describes the embryo as being far larger and developed than it would actually be. Anyone want to refute me on that point?
What difference would it make?
None to me. But I know some people would discount this video as "scare-mongering" about first trimester abortions because he makes it seem as though the child is more recognizably human than it would actually be. Which is a terrible argument, don't get me wrong. But I was just wondering if there is any weight to that objection.
I’ll look into it when I have time. Have you looked at the biology of prenatal development?
Did they say why?
I have no firsthand knowledge of this. but at a glance, the post violated rule 5 of their subreddit (prolife arguments should be text posts). A less charitable interpretation of the video is that it also violates rules 1 (the sub is primarily for pro-choice views and discussion with people on the fence), 2 (debate is fine as long as it's about specific topics), and 6 (arguments should be made in discussion, not just pleading with people to change their decisions). I imagine the mods of /r/prochoice thought this post was trolling. Notice how Rule 2 of this subreddit states "Pro-choicers simply here for advocacy or trolling are unwelcome and may be banned." It's the same thing.
Honestly I don’t understand why we have a second rule that allows pro-choicers to post when the only reason they do are for advocacy and trolling.  If they actually were genuine in wanting to have discussions here, they wouldn’t be pro-choice anymore as pro-choicers are intrinsically close minded and only want to advocate abortion.
I think that this series of videos is so informative.

For those wondering, this is from June 2017. What I find really interesting about these polls is just asking people about "some circumstances" or "most circumstances" etc for legality is really unhelpful because it assumes most people understand what circumstances constitute the majority of abortions. When you actually ask people about specific circumstances or restrictions, we find out that the legal status quo (legal abortion on demand up til as late as you can find an abortionist willing to do it) doesn't even come close to reflecting what the majority agree with.
true
Oh also 48% of Independents say abortion is morally wrong vs 42% who say it's morally acceptable. I think that's pretty amazing. In most social topics Independents side with Democrats pretty strongly. Not this one.
People are probably pro life and pro choice for different reasons.
I'm wondering if "legal in certain circumstances" basically means "a life-or-death situation for the mother" for some of these answers. In those cases, are there actually situations where an abortion is medically necessary to save a life? Even in an ectopic pregnancy, the goal isn't to kill the child, it's to remove him or her from the mother. I guess some of this boils down to semantics, but when most pro-lifers agree that life-or-death situations should be down to the mother's choice, it muddies the numbers.
The only abortion I'm aware of done to save the mother's life where birthing the child isn't more clinically appropriate is ectopic pregnancy. And yeah I totally agree with you, without knowing what the "certain circumstances" are, these polls are meaningless.

I guess if abortion is already legal for any reason, it's difficult to pass a law like this. It almost feels like approaching the problem from the wrong "direction," if that makes sense. But I'm not really sure what the best order to tackle Roe v. Wade would even be...
I’ll take anything that saves lives, but yeah it isn’t a logically consistent law.
Yes, we're going to continue to be held back by courts. It's one of the reason winning in 2016 was so pivotal. We just need Ginsberg to croak or one of the other aging liberal justices to do the same or step down and we'll have a conservative majority on the supreme court. At which point we'll rip Roe v. Wade apart. We also need Congress to pass a "Life at Conception" bill as a preventative measure. Having done that we push for a Constitutional amendment to make it even more difficult to revert.
Isn't Justice Kennedy, a centrist gonna retire in the Summer
I hadn't heard that, though it appears to mostly be a rumor. If he does it will be a huge boost to Republican turn out in the 2018 midterms and it will give conservatives their much needed Supreme Court majority.
It probably won't happen, but you never know.
He's been about to retire any day now for a few years.
I'm not sure I'd count on Alito.

While I don't believe in punishing someone for doing something that later becomes illegal, that's for entirely different purposes (grandfathering a crime- no matter how heinous- sets a terrifying precedent). If abortion becomes legal, it should be treated as any other form of murder, punishments included.
Well for starters not all forms of murder are treated the same. There are so many things that make the case of abortion different. First, coercion (societal,cultural and otherwise). Second, inability to prove culpability. If I accidentally shoot a person at a shooting range because my instructor insisted that we were just practising on a mannequin should I be criminally persecuted or the instructor? I'd say the latter. And so, unfortunately it is the case with abortion that we are told constantly by higher authorities that the baby is not there yet. (I think it's legally unfair to assume a certain degree of understanding from the mother or father at this point just because we understand it). Third, the mother is not actually performing the action itself and therefore, even if culpability and wilfulness could be proven (which I don't think the can) then their sentence certainly should not be of equal degree to that of the doctor who is directly performing the act of killing. This is not a matter of being loving or forgiving. It is a matter of being legally practical and fair. Especially when making the change from legal to illegal. Perhaps after enough time has past and the culture shifts there will be a better case to be made for punishment. I am surprised how many prolifers use their emotions rather than reason when it comes to this one topic.
I never said they were all treated exactly the same. Please don't put words into my mouth. Coercion doesn't change the type of murder, so that's rather irrelevant. And even if coerced, one still doesn't just get away with it, so that's rather irrelevant to the disucssion. Innocent until proven guilty... I agree, and once again, it has absolutely nothing to do with the conversation at hand. I'm sorry, but the person who hires a hitman is just as guilty as the hitman themselves. Okay... Where did I say we can't be practical or fair? That's been my entire purpose here. I already stated that I didn't believe in grandfathering past crimes... Did you even read my posts? It was the very first one I made. Then go complain to the emotiond-driven rant I've been dealing with for the past couple days.
I never said that you said they were. I was merely noting that they are not. Sure it can. If someone holds a gun to my head and tells me to shoot the person beside me and I do it, I will surely suffer a lower sentence if criminally charged at all. I don't know what this means? I didn't think I said anything about innocence until proven guilty, did I? Not if the hitman is mascaraing as a doctor and you are told by higher authorities that the doctor is merely performing a medical procedure equal to contraception. Where did I say that you said we can't be practical or fair? I believe I said that my idea is more practical and fair from a legal standpoint. Again, I'm not sure about the relevance of this comment? What? I am seriously confused at this point. I was merely making the case as to why I believe that mothers should not be punished for abortions when the law changes. At least not at the beginning anayway.
You and me both.
I and many others think that it is the practitioner who should be punished.
But why not the woman?  She would be guilty of conspiracy to murder and murder.
Because an all or nothing approach isn't going to be within reach and will ultimately be harmful. If you pass laws that make it the woman who gets the punishment, it could arguably make situations worse. If women are frequently trying to have abortions by themselves there is a greater risk of losing two lives.
Your response makes no sense.  By making the woman criminally liable for abortion there is less risk of self-abortion, not more, because she knows that the act of self-abortion could result in a murder charge for her.  Thus, making the woman criminally liable would reduce the incidence of self-abortions, not increase it.
Quite the opposite. If they self-abort, they may be able to argue it is a miscarriage.
Yet if she self-aborts in a jurisdiction that that only punishes abortionists, she would never have to make that argument in the first place.
But we know from most examples of prohibitive laws that isn't the effect. It just means people try to keep it a secret and bring it underground. The key is providing alternatives to abortion in addition to making it illegal, while punishing those that create an underground industry.
Well, lets make murder of born humans, drunk driving, and rape all legal then too. Punish the woman.
Do you have a source for this?
yeah 1920-1933edit: and the decades of serious drug issues made worse by heavy punishment on small time drug offenses.
That is just a range of years.  I need for you to produce a link to a valid source from the internet in support of your proposition that laws which criminalize abortion for the mother and abortionist result in a higher incidence of self-abortion than do laws which only criminalize abortion for the abortionist.  Otherwise, there is little reason to believe that you know what you are talking about. edit: that’s still not good enough
What ethical means would you propose for gathering said data?

Let me fix that for you: If women are trying to commit murder. You assume the life of a murderer is worth saving. These are women who want their babies skull crushed due to them being an inconvenience. Will society go to any end to justify female abuse? Women are the most privileged group of people in western society, even when they commit murder they get excused.
Lol GTFO
Because like the article outlines the culture and pro abortion industry has manipulated many people into believing the human fetus is not really a human being or a person. They can not be held as fully culpable by the law if they don’t truly understand what they are doing. In addition, the doctor who is fully aware is actually commiting the act of murder or killing. Basically, coercion and manipulation limit culpability on the mothers part and until that can be eliminated only the doctor can be held to the fullest.
And why isn’t the abortionist similarly manipulated by the culture and pro abortion industry?
Because they are assumed to have a higher level of education concerning the industry. Plus they are performing the act and can not claim ignorance or manipulation on any reasonable grounds.
Sure they can.  They can claim that they got into the industry because they were manipulated into believing the culture and pro abortion industry.  In fact, because they are the ones who actually perform the procedure, they are among the members of society who are most easily manipulated into believing the culture and pro abortion industry! What is it about abortion that its patients can’t understand?  They know there is a living human fetus inside of them and that abortion terminates the fetus.
Disingenuous at best. Ignorant at worst. I don't think so. Many, many do not know. Heck, half the people over at prochoice will argue that a fetus is not a human being.
You’re going to need to do a better job than that.  Try again and put some effort into your argument You still haven’t answered my question.  What is it about abortion that its patients can’t understand? On what basis do you conclude that pregnant women don’t understand that there is a living fetus inside of them?
I've already explained. It's not my problem if you don't agree or understand. Go back and reread our last exchanges. On the basis that higher authorities are likening abortion to a form of contraception and calling the baby a clump of cells.

I never said an abortion doctor shouldn't be punished. If someone hires the hitman, we punish both the hitman themselves and the employer.
So you do think that punishing women for abortions will save more lives? If you think it will than you have a consistent viewpoint, but I don't think it will save more lives. I don't think it will deter the truly desperate from trying to have abortions. I think that could lead to more deaths. I am on this sub because I am pro-life, but I don't think that punishing women for abortion will act as a deterrent to abortion overall, and I think that many more lives could be lost as a result. The practitioners carrying them out aren't in the situations that these women are. Making those women's situations worse isn't going to help end cycles of poverty and helplessness that result in these situation in the first place.
Ah, this myth again. Making something harder to do never makes it more accessible. Will it stop it completely? Of course not- but if it were possible to stop it completely there'd be no point in making it illegal. Also, if we're going to talk about cycles of poverty, that's completely off base for this sub- but in that case I'd suggest you start pushing for a freer market and an end to the welfare state that traps people into poverty.
I'm sorry what was that supposed to mean?
You complained that banning abortion lead to cycles of poverty- so I offered a solution to cycles of poverty.
No that's not what I claimed. I was asserting that punishing women who try to have abortions perpetuates cycles of poverty. That is a different thing. If you think that ONLY encouraging a free market will end poverty then you are a fool.
I didn't say it'll end poverty. Nothing will end poverty. We'll always have some people that are poor. But capitalism has pulled more of the world out of poverty than anything else. Punishing criminals doesn't perpetuate cycles of poverty. What about poor people who never commit crimes? What about rich people who do commit crimes? You're playing right into Sanger's plan to destroy black communities with your logic- and before you say such, yes you never mentioned blacks, but she did, and your logic hurts them the most right now (and they are targetted by abortionists to this very day). By leaving the criminals to roam free in impoverished neighborhoods, it's the law abiding people who live there that suffer as a result. This means more gangs, more gang violence, more murder, prices go up in stores as a result of having to recoup the costs of increased rates of theft... A lax attitude toward crime has never done anything but hurt the innocent, and that's exactly what the real plan behind such is.
Punishing some crimes disproportionately does perpetuate poverty. This has been especially true with drug offenses.I am definitely not here to argue against the merits of capitalism. I am not sure why you are going against that. I am a moderate conservative if that helps clarify things.Your lumping in women that have abortions with gangs is pretty off base though.The latter have of your response is pretty ridiculous in that regard. That's similar to punishing prostitutes and not the pimps and johns.Claiming that I am playing into the Sanger playbook doesn't make any sense.Would you at the very least concede that any punishment a women having an abortion receives should be far less than what an abortionist receives?

Ah, assuming that I don't want a free market. I share a nuanced view of abortion and want to end cycles of poverty therefore i most be a Marxist.
I didn't say you were a Marxist; you brought up a problem and I offered a solution that's proven to work. You're the one that went off on the tangent.
If you think that's a tangent then you truly are out of touch with the realities of abortion and it's connection to poverty.
Murder of adults, and theft, and a myriad of other crimes, are connected to poverty too And yet we punish people who do those things
I'm well aware that abortionists often target poorer communities... It's right form Margaret Sanger's playbook. If anything, illegalizing abortion would prevent such an abuse.
exactly! Alternatively punishing those communities which are most effected by abortion would also be a bad thing.

My understanding is that the reason for this is "the woman is usually pressured by society and/or her family or boyfriend, or maybe she's afraid of being poor and she wouldn't do it if she wasn't desperate and and and" But i mean. Some people rob banks or commit fraud because they are in financial ruin. They really didn't want to hurt anyone they were just desperate and worried about their family.  That doesn't excuse them does it? Some people break into homes and steal TVs because supposedly they just can't get a job and so logically the thing to do is break into people's homes (i don't buy this AT ALL by the way,  but some people cry it out as a reason to stop convicting certain people of crimes they commit... similar to the idea we are discussing here.) I just don't buy it. I definitely felt pressure to abort when i was unexpectedly pregnant, but if i had gone along with it and aborted my son, i am fully aware and was fully aware at the time that that decision would have been my own and for my own gain.
They don't consider women to have agency.
Yes they do, they're just making that appear dubious as a deceptive tactic because they're secret pro-choicers whether they realize it or not
I think the larger argument here is that scaring people out of abortions has been largely unsuccessful. Same with drug use.By empowering women I think we can do a lot more towards preventing abortions in some ways.
There is no actual data to support that criminalizing it was unsuccessful.  RvW pulled some specious figures out of a magic hat to try and suggest that women were aborting anyway in huge numbers (the people responsible for this lie have freely admitted it was not based on reality at all) but even if their figures were proven true, do you really think FEWER women are having abortions now? Criminalizing things works. Do you really think FEWER people are smoking weed now than 40 years ago when it was fully illegal, regardless of your feelings on weed itself.
In regards to the totally unrelated topic of marijuana, we have fewer people having their lives ruined with prison sentences for crimes that don't really hurt other people. That's good for everyone.
You didn't answer whether you think more or fewer people are doing it. My point is to connect legality to number of people doing something, which is a serious thing to consider when the issue involves killing people.
Pro-life means being pro-lfie for both things. I think more people would die if we don't go about making abortion illegal in a wise manner. I think it is unwise to punish the women in many situations, not all. I think creating an underground market for abortions will lead to more deaths.
I get that the proposal to not punish mothers is the abortion version of the Nordic Model, but i just can't see them as truly analogous. Probably the majority of prostituted women worldwide are at risk of literally being killed if someone suspects them of asking for help. The coercion is literal and immediate, it's not a 20 yard theoretical chain of vague and philosophical links the way it is for women getting abortions in the western world.
It's interesting that you see it as vague. Abortion is dangerous, improvised and underground abortions are even more dangerous.I think punishing women for abortion would make them more likely to hide what they are doing, where punishing only the practitioners would put the burden on the practitioners. They would put more effort into keeping things safe for women and thus at least reduce the harm in the evil.I don't like that abortion would still exist if it were illegal, but I do know two lives are worth more than one.

yes undocumented things are difficult to document.great insight there
Okay, so since nobody actually knows,  you continue assuming millions of abortions were always happening and I'll continue assuming that they werent. Nobody knows. AT BEST, your argument is not convincing because nobody knows.
I don't think your comparisons are equivalent. There is a bigger factor at play here. First, the abortion doctor (who should be legally punished to the fullest degree) is responsible for misrepresentation and coercion. And they are in a position of authority and trust. If I went to my doctor to ask for anti-nausea meds while pregnant and he told me that yes they are fine to take because the thing inside me is not really a baby yet and so they ca not be harmed. But, as a side effect the child is somehow damaged would I be culpable? I know it's not a perfect analogy but, I think you fail to realize how much manipulation and deception is at play here.
I have friends who have had abortions and they didn't go in to their GP  being like "gee doc what does this positive pregnancy test mean? Do i have to stop drinking? What's a baby?" And doc is like "NEVER MIND THAT, WE'LL HAVE TO PERFORM SURGERY RIGHT AWAY" and before she knows it our protagonist has had her pregnancy terminated and she's left with a puzzled look on her dainty childlike face. No, they specifically look up PP and call around for an abortion until they get the earliest appointment possible to minimize bleeding. Yes,  PP is the abortion mafia and they'll lie and push. Yes, 30yo & younger feminist social circles will harass you and dump you unless you make the smart choice and kill your baby. And that's wrong. There's nothing i don't realize there.  I was there, it happened to me. But I'll tell you majority that get abortions do it for the same reason they do anything else. To serve themselves. And anybody who didn't sleep through 8th grade biology class knows a fetus is not a clump of cells.  I don't buy ignorance of basic biology for a minute, except maybe if they were raised in a FLDS cult or something similar. A 3 year old knows that's not a clump of cells in there.
That’s not the point. The point is that it’s much harder to make that case legally. Your antectodals are not enough to base a law on. The doctor is much more culpable because they are in a position of authority and trust and can not reasonably claim any ignorance. This is why in developed nations with prolife legislation we don’t see mothers jailed. We see that abortion doctors are not performing abortions and if and when they do, they are persecuted. It’s the only practical and fair method. Ireland and Poland are good examples. Until there is a huge culture shift we can not claim that she had the tools are her disposal to really know and eliminate coercion. It’s just obvious and practical from a legal standpoint. Seeking out an abortion in this day and age is not like hiring a hit man. If the Hitman was called a doctor and the person you wanted to killed was called not yet alive or a person and the killing was performed in a hospital or clinic sanctioned by the state and you didn’t get to see an ultrasound then you have a great case that it was not your fault. I think you are letting your personal experience cloud your judgement. Many steps must be made before punishment is justified.
The mother is the practitioner. She says "KILL MY BABY" and gets exactly what she asks for.
That would be the opposite of the practitioner...
Silly me, I thought the Pro-Life movement was to stop the intentional murder of innocent children.
To that end, should women who have abortions be punished?
Anyone who intentionally murders a child should be punished. Is that hard to understand? It is currently considered a double homicide to kill a woman who is pregnant. Why would this be any different? How is it "empowering" women to prevent them from murdering a child?
You responded to my question with three new questions.  Please try again. To that end, should women who have abortions be punished?  Yes or no?
They didn't merely ask three questions. They clearly answered your question first, saying:
Yes but it is the abortionist who does the act of killing in a surgical abortion, not the woman, and I wanted a clear answer.
I think I was pretty clear. Anyone involved in the murder of a child should be held accountable. Anyone includes the mother, the doctor, the nurse. Anyone. Do you need it in another language perhaps? Is that not empowering enough for you?
That will do.  It’s clear you believe that a woman who gets an abortion should be punished for murder.
Yes I do. Don't you? I mean it is not illegal now so we could not prosecute any woman who has had one in the past but once a law was passed then of course we should prosecute woman who murder their children. It would not be much of a ban if we didn't.
I don’t believe that either the woman or the abortionist should be punished because I don’t believe that abortion should be considered murder.
So the taking of an innocent baby's life is not murder in your eyes? I suppose you would have a problem with someone murdering you correct?
a baby is post-born and thus a person.  thus taking a baby’s life would be murder in my eyes. i would have a problem with someone murdering me, yes.


Why is my response nonsensical?
No, the goal of the pro-life movement is to stop the wholesale murder of innocent human beings.
If anything, abortion is worse than other murder- being directed against a defenseless innocent to whom the perpetrator has a particularly strong obligation to provide care. I wouldn't support retroactive punishment, but as a general position this seems utterly incoherent.
Out of curiosity, what about a woman who, by herself, contributes to a miscarriage either through neglect or intent to harm?  Or a woman who attempts suicide and survives, but the attempt results in miscarriage? It seems to me that it becomes difficult to legally balance the idea of "unborn=person" without introducing a framework resulting in the prosecution of the mother.  Under existing 'personhood' laws, in fact, women have already faced criminal charges for cases like the above. In my view, all good intentions and fuzzy-happy-'forgiveness and redemption' notwithstanding, criminal culpability for the mother in the case of fetal death is an inevitable, inescapable result of providing legal 'personhood' status to the unborn.  That's what "abortion is murder" means.  In my opinion, you can't have it both ways and attempting to do so is deeply naive. Regardless of my feelings pro-life or pro-choice, that's how prohibition law works.  Metaphorically speaking, if you're willing to put the gun of the federal government to the head of a unwilling pregnant woman and tell her that she will carry the child to term or else, then you're going to have to pull the trigger if she doesn't.
That certainly sounds more morbid than it needs to. Most people don't get the death penalty for enslavement or serial killing, nobody's going to get killed for an abortion.
Possibly, hence the 'metaphorically speaking'. Except there are voices on the pro-life side of the discussion that do call for the death penalty, not only for doctors but for the mother as well.  Assuming that abortion is murder, and that the abortion industry has been a holocaust (which are both very common comparisons), their opinion is not that much of a stretch.
I think it is safe to say there are people who support the death penalty here and on the pro-life side in general. However, there are plenty that do not, myself included. I imagine that as soon as we've gotten this form of homicide made illegal, we can get to work on ending the state-sponsored homicides: capital punishment and war.  The latter may be harder than the former, of course.
A goal that I would say is shared by many on both sides of the debate, myself included.  Show me a pill that allows a healthy sex life for 100% of people with 100% voluntary prevention of conception, 100% of the time with 0% side effects, and I can guarantee you full-fledged support from the pro-choice community. The ultimate goal, at least as I see it, is not 'all abortion, all the time', it's to allow a woman to have consent, to have a choice, in pregnancy.  That extends just as strongly to women who want to carry to term safely, there's an incredible amount of support for safe and healthy pregnancy in the pro-choice community. The question for me is one of choice, of consent.  I find a government forcing a woman to abort against her will just as fundamentally abhorrent as one that forces a woman to conceive and carry a pregnancy against her will.
I disagree with your first paragraph. It's not even close to 100% of the PC side that believes fetuses are people, and thus have no reason to ever think it should be illegal. What if a woman who goes off of her 100% magical birth control to deliberately get pregnant, but then her husband loses his job or leaves her,and she changes her mind? Even if all pregnancies were 100% voluntary they are never going to see abortion as wrong. That logic train doesn't stop in that town.
We all want to have more control over our lives.  But when the price is someone's life, the compromise is an illusion. This isn't about the government forcing anyone to do anything.  This is about the government protecting someone's life.  Only about 5% of pregnancies occur due to rape.  The rest were entirely the result of sex with consent. It's fine to want to provide better options for women, but permitting someone to die simply to improve the standard of living of another is not equitable.  We generally agree that the State has a duty to protect the lives of people living within it.
That’s not how it works because there are already plenty of countries with prolife legislation in the developed world and the mother doesn’t get jailed. It would be easy to follow their systems. Ireland and Poland are decent examples.
I don’t agree. We see examples of countries with strict prolife legislations in the developed world and mothers are not being punished and jailed. Ireland and Poland are decent examples of this.
Ireland has better abortion access than much of the US. Ferries to England are cheap and traveling for abortion is perfectly legal.
Why, does the US restrict travelling for abortion? A train to the next state seems like a cheap and viable option.
A lot of states are quite large compared to the size of the British Isles. And the ones with restrictions like waiting periods are clustered together in the Midwest, so you could be forking out a lot for accommodation or travel.
I'm sure the ferry cost more. Does Poland have a ferry that drops people off at an abortion clinic also?
I wouldn't count on it. Even before you start factoring in accommodation, healthcare costs in the US are astronomical compared to private (non-NHS) costs in the UK. Mainland Europe has an extensive and affordable train network.
That's murder and she should be punished. Are you saying women who drink and do drugs and abuse their unborn children should be celebrated instead of punished? Should those deformed, or killed have no recompense for their suffering at all? That's not suicide, it's murder suicide. If a father abandoned his child and then attempted to kill himself you're damn right he'd be held responsible for the murder\neglect of the child. This "Women should be above punishment" string you're pulling is the only thing that's illogical. It is not, it just requires you to have empathy with those who don't look exactly like you. It requires you putting the lives of others above individual convenience. Good. They should be.
That’s not how it works because there are already plenty of countries with prolife legislation in the developed world and the mother doesn’t get jailed. It would be easy to follow their systems. Ireland and Poland are decent examples.
https://www.nytimes.com/1997/10/31/us/court-rules-out-woman-s-trial-in-fetus-death.html Don't underestimate how much somebody can want to not be pregnant.
Indeed, I'd forgotten about that one.  Looking at how an increasingly vocal (and vitriolic) component of the pro-life community is coming into ever more open conflict with the moderates of the base, it's difficult not to see parallels to how the pro-life community has approached the conflict with pro-choice advocates, down to many of the same tactics and arguments being used. Historically, there's a feedback loop that societies and movements can fall into that perpetuates a holier-than-thou or "I'm more 'x' than you are" ideology (typically conservative, but by no means limited to it).  The end result is small steps towards dangerous extremism being made by well-intentioned people who one day look around and are surprised to find that they're the ones who are now being judged as too moderate for their own party.

For many people much of that goes hand in hand, ie empowering women to make life affirming decisions lowers the abortion rate. And given so many leaders in the movement used to work at abortion clinics or had abortions, I would say forgiveness and redemption are, in face, key to the movement.
It really is just about one thing. Is it wrong to murder an innocent life? In the case of abortion then yes. In the case where the mother's life is in danger, like an ectopic pregnancy then no.
They're the key to trying to win people over by trying to kiss their butts, but the kind of movement who wants you to kiss its butt is not the kind that is going to be ended by you kissing it's butt, it'll just ask for tongue next time
I don't think clearly asserting our belief in the redemption of those who supported abortion is butt-kissing. It's not like were saying, come join us, don't worry about regretting the evil you did, just kinda look like you're with us and it's cool if you do whatever. People still have to change and support life. I dunno if butt-kissing is really fair.
I think at best it's a well-intended overestimation of the concerns of others, most likely a futile gesture, and at worst, a covert effort that "builds a bridge" only leading one way (and its not to ours) by paving it with the bricks of "its not your fault!" which makes the fault itself nebulous and ungroundable.
Excellent word decision.
Without the life-affirming part, though, it's meaningless rhetoric abortion supporters use to try to defame the only people who seem to care about the most defenseless people on earth.
Maximum buzzwords!
Decisions in particular.  Can you think of any synonym?
Abortion is often linked to high rates of poverty. I would rather deal with the inequalities and other factors that influence abortion rates instead of punishing woman for the inequalities of society.
If abortion is murder, there should be criminal penalties for it. You can’t say that the child in the womb is an individual human being with rights, and that killing them should not be illegal. That’s completely insane.
In the event that abortion becomes illegal, is anyone actually advocating for punishing women who've already had abortions when they were legal?
Briefly, Donald Trump.  Then he realized it was unpopular. Also, many users on this subreddit. EDIT: misread your comment.
I don't think that's accurate. Wasn't Trump saying that abortion should be illegal and there should be a punishment for it? That's different than saying women who've had abortions while it was legal should be retroactively punished for it. I've floated around this subreddit for several months and haven't seen users suggest that either.
Oh, I misread your comment.
I don't take anything Trump says seriously because he's an imbecile. I don't think he should be the voice of pro-lifers, especially when he spews bullshit.
Kind of a shame that pro-lifers were a critical demographic in his election then.
I agree. Pro-lifers attaching themselves to the republican platform isn't helping anyone. Protecting the unborn isn't a political tool and shouldn't be used that way.
And thus we have the end of (a portion of) the pro-life movement. Having to choose between condemning abortion (and thus women who get them) and not, the "pro-life" women have chosen "not". Not only will it be unthinkable to legally punish women for getting abortions, but it will be unthinkable to condemn them either. After all, condemnation, shame, and even criticism are just forms of punishment. And since the goal of the pro-life movement is actually 'empowering women' (funny how the concern over murdered infants doesn't even get into the title), not even that is allowed. Instead, pro-life leaders who take this line will sound identical to pro-abortion leaders 10 years ago: 'We can't blame women for what they do! Instead, we have to find the root causes! We have to make every woman feel like a special, loved, wonderful, cared-for person so she never, ever chooses abortion (and if she does, the blame lies with everyone BUT her.)' Safe, legal and rare, redux - in practice. Just they'll change the subject when "safe" and "legal" comes up. By the way: don't think this just covers women who get abortions: It also means abortion workers. From that article: ... ... So, for you folks keeping score at home, here's the rundown: Women who get abortions should never be condemned or criticized, to say nothing of punished. They are victims and need to be empowered and supported, financially and emotionally and spiritually. Women who work in the abortion industry... also should not be condemned or criticized, much less punished. They too are victims and need to be empowered and supported, financially and emotionally and spiritually. For fun, try to figure out why Johnson zeroes in on 'women' for abortion workers. Don't worry though: this mercy has limits. This vision of the pro-life movement will condemn, in harsh tones, the real monsters. Anyone who refuses to pony up enough money to bribe women out of abortion. Anyone who criticizes women who get abortions, for making them feel bad (and thus disempowering them.) Any man who encourages a woman to get an abortion. Because that Forgiveness and Redemption is a precious commodity, and there's only so much to go around.
Had if legal, no. If illegal, absolutely. There must be justice done for the innocent life taken. If you hire a hitman to kill someone, both parties are still guilty morally and legally in causing the death of that child.
Weird how all the top comments are against this, but the post is at 59 upvotes.  Brigade much? Edit: Yup: https://www.reddit.com/r/prochoice/comments/8ds8aa/prolife_subreddit_argues_the_merits_of_punishing/
It's okay to kill if you feel really sorry for it later.
Abso-fucking-lutely not. They must be dealt justice. Homicide doesn't stop being homicide just because you have a vagina. This is just another instance of privileged women thinking they're above the law. You commit murder you suffer for it, you don't get a pass just because you're a woman.

This paragraph was intriguing... "Now, dynamics are changing as a result of the United States’ willingness to take a stand. In the last 18 months, the U.S. has gone from being one of the most aggressive promoters of abortion on the global stage to one of the staunchest defenders of the unborn."
What a difference one election makes, eh?
Once a republican is out of office it will all change. Trump will have screwed it up for the entire pro-life community with his ass baggery.
Trump has delivered very well on Pro Life issues. He is probably a million times better than a Hillary Presidency.
Obama's Legacy being cleaned away.

What's wrong about standing up for the unborn
The guy is a leftist shill, don't listen to him. Posts on redacted frequently saying to fuck everyone right of center.
I love the argument though, it's so dumb. "It's embarrassing you don't endorse the genocidal practices of abortion and eugenics as a country. Shame on you."

Highest voted comment:if you don't have a lot of money and enough support it is selfish to knowingly bring someone into the world with so many difficulties. You may feel terrible about the decision but that is the most loving thing you could do for themSecond highest:Speak to a genetic counselor for the facts, but my gut reaction is that if you want to end the pregnancy, it is a merciful choice.When down is up and left is right, bringing a newborn into the world is selfish, cruel and hateful apparently.
Bring into the world? Wtf? This comment always annoys me so much. Seriously, are they not already in the world or does a uterus exist in some other dimension? Oh I forgot, birth is some kind of magical thing not just a change in location. Prochoice, science is not really their thing.
lol "does a uterus exist in some other dimension?"
"The Uterine Dimention: where living doesn't mean "life", and ethics get foggy."/s
That's one of the more irritating points of pro-choice rhetoric, the idea that a fetus doesn't exist, or is somehow a "potential" or a "hypothetical". Bitch, it's right there! It exists in this world, made of physical matter like the rest of us. It's an almost mystical worldview, like the uterus is one big quantum question mark until the vagina magically teleports the fetus into reality as a full person.
You have no idea how many times I’ve had to argue this point with people. Seriously, check my post history. They inevitably get into some weird theory about how nothing is real and “you” aren’t technically the same “you” as from two seconds ago, all so that they can support abortion. I should ask them if that means they should spend every second resigning their apartment lease agreement, since they’re not the same “person” as from two seconds ago... Seriously, it’s beyond stupid. Denying continuity of matter is fucking dumb, and I’m pretty sick of trying to be nice about it.
“Person” is a legal term.  There’s nothing stupid about saying that the unborn are not persons.
“Person” is a philosophical term as well as a legal one. It is not exclusively a legal term. Legal meaning does not exist in a vacuum. Read my comment again. It is very clear that I wasn’t saying that it’s stupid to insist that the unborn aren’t persons; I was referring to the near-comical denial of reality and materialistic reductionism that some people jump to in order to defend their belief that the fetus is somehow not physically the same human organism as that same human organism at a later stage of development. It is not a “potential” individual human with many possible individual humans as the outcome, it is a single individual human organism at a very early stage of development. I’m all for good arguments, but most of these arguments are just silly (as are many on the pro-life side).
in what sense do people argue that “they’re not the same person as from two seconds ago...” as it relates to a pro-choice argument?
Lol. So true.
A developing human is still a human. It’s just, you know, developing...kind of a necessary part of a person’s life, that part...
One of the most consistent misunderstandings I've observed between pro-lifers and pro-choicers is this: Pro-lifers argue from a perspective that the child is already alive and in this world. Pro-choicers argue from a perspective that the child is either not yet alive, or is in a nebulous state of being more than nonexistent, but less than fully alive. I'm not trying to put words in people's mouths, but the vast majority of abortion debates I've seen have this at the root. And without establishing that baseline of what the child IS, it's hard to see eye-to-eye on anything after that.
Yes, a scientific fact. A weird mystical concept at best.
No arguments here. That's why I try to establish a baseline when discussion abortion with pro-choicers from the get-go.
Agreed. Funny how they like to prattle on and on about “science says this” or “science says that”, but they abandon science the instant it presents them with a conclusion which they find too challenging to accept.
More like a semantic argument. It all depends on how you define life, so it's not really productive to argue either way.
Is "not born yet" really that abstract of a concept?
It is when it's used as evidence that the fetus is either not alive, not deserving of rights, or somehow less than human because it's still in the womb.
I mean what makes it abstract or difficult to understand?
It’s an idiomatic phrase
More like idiotic. I get it. It needs to change because people actually believe it now.
I was so angry when someone in my course said "It's completely irresponsible to bring a baby into this world that youre not ready for." Yet he was advocating to be able to kill the baby.
Why is it such a foreign idea to such people that if one isn't ready for a baby, there is a solution which has a failure rate of less than 9x1010 percent: Don't have sex.
But....but.....how am I supposed to have sex if I can’t have sex???
I think you meant 9x10-10. But birth control is pretty good too.
Yes I'd argue that availability of birth control - especially in the supposedly-guaranteed pill form - leads directly to an increase in abortions. It creates a disconnect between sex and children, leading people to assume that they don't need to worry about creating a child when they have sex. As there is a statistically significant failure rate even with utterly perfect use, it can result in a woman who finds herself pregnant turning to abortion as a backup - which is exactly the case in nearly 99% of all abortions in the West.
Or that they don't have to worry as much. I don't disagree.
It makes me so sad to think about what they must think to themselves whenever they see a downs or otherwise disabled child. "Awuhhh, its such a shame that kid over there isn't dead..." i mean, they must How many people out there are thinking these things every day, at the grocery store, at the dentist, at the airport, at their Unitarian churches, etc I could cry
I do cry. I watched the first episode of The Man in the High Tower and they mentioned how the hospital burns the elderly, sick, and disabled as ashes were falling all around the characters. The next scene had people with Down Syndrome on a bus being taken to their deaths. These people are literally modern day Nazis. That is not an exaggeration; it is a statement of fact.
Yeah... why do you think that?
My kid has a disability. I frequently think of how these people must look at her and decide that she would have been better off dead.
I don't, just fyi.
Question for you. How is it selfish to bear, birth, and raise a child with down syndrome or some other disability?
That's like, the opposite, man. But I don't see where that other person said it was selfish.
I wouldn't say it's necessarily selfish (depends on the reasons).
Ah always interesting watching people self-delude. "Hey friend, what is clearly a selfish move on your part to kill a child you perceive as difficult can in fact be twisted by us into something loving and selfless!"
"Give up their life for you.  It's selfless."
Some of you may die, but it's a sacrifice I am willing to make.

Yes, I agree. And I would avoid the term “give up” and say that they made an adoption plan. This is is important for the prolife movement.
The go-to term is “place” a child with a family 😊
Yup, that's it. Even better.
I am so thankful to my birth mother, and my adopted Mom.
Awesome!  You sound like the lead in I Lived On Parker Avenue.
I am so thankful for all my family members who were adopted.
My guess is that most women giving up a baby for adoption experience a sense of undeserved guilt.  This powerfully-made film (starring the actual people) illustrates both sides of the adoption story:  I Lived On Parker Avenue.
If you’re in the right portion of the pro-life movement, this is common knowledge.
Yeah, whenever I have a conversation about abortion with my liberal friend, he/she NEVER brings up abortion.

My birth mother is a hero in my eyes for giving me my life.
NOPE SHE RUINED YOUR LIFE, GAWD
Wouldn't it have been better if she gave the effort to raise you herself?
I doubt it. Why would it? It's ridiculous to assume it would. While dna may be a powerful thing, it is definitely not the only and ultimate thing that makes a family. There are a million other things that take precedence.
This is very true. Thank you.
Not really, she can bearly take care of herself. Besides I wouldn't have been able to be raised by my amazing adoptive parents.
Good people don’t judge others who make an honorable decision.
An honorable decision is to decide to love and raise the child you created. Not say "I made this life and I don't feel like taking the effort to raise them"
Good people chooses the best life for their children. That is never murdering them, and in many cases adopting the children to families that are better suited to take care of them. More people should do the latter rather than the former.
Making an adoption plan and placing a child with a family is not abandonment. What an ignorant comment. It’s exactly the opposite.
That's quite a rude and ignorant statement. Doing the best for your children is a heroic thing to do.
The best for your children to be a good person and parent and raise them yourself. Raising children is heroic. Giving them away is not.
Not in all cases though. Raising children is heroic but so is raising them for nine months and ensuring that they will continue to be raised in a safe and loving family setting if you can not continue to do the job. I don't understand how you can not see that?
Took the words out of my mouth, thanks!

Why not? I think many of them are actually.

Except you aren’t considering that many of these mothers are a product of the culture. And that in their mind abortion is a right. It seems obvious to you and me but trust me, I’ve dealt with mothers in these situations and they are under a lot more pressure than you or I could probably ever imagine. Many coming from abusive situations or pressured by family and society that abortion is right option. And told that not only is it the right option it is the compassionate thing to do. It’s like they are in a cult. And trust me it takes a lot of courage to get out of a cult or an abusive situation. Sure it might not be the same as taking a bullet for another person but, it’s sure as shit a courageous thing to do for many mothers who have been pressured into and lied to about abortion for their whole lives. I think you should spend some time examining the issue a bit further. I mean just the act of giving birth itself should be regarded as heroic imo. Trust me, I’ve done it 3 times. In the same respect, it’s a fathers dury to protect his child but, I’d still regard him a hero if he jumped in and saved her from drowning or being hit by a car or being killed by a home invader.
[...] So are the men. Should I have sympathy for wifebeaters? Is a guy who does not smack his girlfriend around, heroic? Especially if it's in his culture? How about the man who does not demand his girlfriend get an abortion, and merely leaves her? Is he a hero? If we're going to lower those standards, let's lower them all around. Hey, my culture says that abortion is murder. I merely think people who get, perform or procure abortions should get jail time and not the death penalty. I'm a merciful man. Heck, I'm merciful for merely regarding these women abandoning their children as tremendously irresponsible and condemnation worthy (barring the rare exceptions in more particular circumstances), and not criminals who should be hunted down and, at a minimum, having their wages garnished until the child is 18. I suppose I am now a saint. That's my culture and conviction. Is it in play here?
I’m not sure I understand your wifebeater comment. But yes, if you are going against the grain to do the right thing and it’s going to be a Very difficult journey for you because of it then you are somewhat of a hero. My dad always talks about his father and how during his time hitting your kids was acceptable. But he would not do it. I always considered that he was a hero to go against the status quo. Did others treat him differently or frown upon his choice? Not sure, but I think these mothers are taking on a considerably larger burden just by giving birth. As for your culture, maybe you are heroic in your approach but there is still a lot more room for heroism on your part it seems. You can start by embracing the heroism of these mothers.
Check it out. I'm going against the grain of this sub. Downvotes and everything, and I'm still standing. I am a hero. A reddit hero, but hey, I'll take it. Why? Everyone is doing that, despite it being wrong. I'm doing the most heroic thing: I'm going against the status quo to speak the truth. Saying "Giving your kid away to strangers because you don't want them" isn't heroic. I'll encourage others to be heroic too: not end up getting knocked up or knocking someone up out of wedlock. Checking the stats, that is countercultural as well. What's the line? "Not the hero you wanted, but the hero you need."? Mine is the example you should imitate.
If you think downvotes on reddit negatively impact your life then you need some waking up and growing up. LOL. It's not just about going against the grain. It's about going against the grain despite significant risks and loses. We as prolifers go against the grain on reddit all the time but it doesn't make us heroes. If we lived in a culture that penalized us and made our lives a lot more difficult (like in a real way, reddit downvotes not included lol) then maybe it would be considered more courageous. In most societies we don't have to face that...yet. No, they are not. That's the point, your the majority view unfortunately. That's why this was posted here. To change the status quo. Adoption has a bad rep but, it's actually an amazing gift. Do you know the term "blood is thicker than water" was actually meant to mean that the blood of the covenant is thicker than the water of the womb? Because adoption is actually a great gift but, it's been given a negative name by the pro-abortion groups who want to demonize it. You're playing into their hands very nicely. Well, I wouldn't say strangers. There is a lengthy process where you choose the adoptive parents. I'm not sure if you are Christian but, you seem to be by past post (I may be wrong) but if you are it might be worthy to remember that even Moses' biological mother sent him into the Nile and he was adopted by the Pharaohs daughter. And that we, by Christian theology are all adoptive children of God. That's fine. You can view these mothers as heroes and still encourage them to not get pregnant premarriage. The two are not mutually exclusive so, I don't really see your point here. I think at this point I am the hero YOU needed. This conversation is taking a lot of time. I have my own family, which conceitedly has adoption in it and I am trying to raise the next prolife generation. But you sound like a hormonal young man who needs a little motherly love and advise imo so, here I am trying to give it. LOL. You've done nothing to convince me of this. On the other hand, I am a mother, I've been pregnant, I raise children, I also help mothers who are experiencing unplanned pregnancies. I've seen mothers who have been raped that have given birth and raised their children, I've seen young teenage mothers make adoption plans and unfortunately, I've seen some decide to abort. The first two examples are heroes no doubt. And despite what you believe the ones who abort are usually not the stereotypical psychopaths. They usually lack support and courage. I'm not justifying their actions. It's just the way it is. There is something deeper taking place in the culture and if it's not dealt with then we have a long way to go. Making abortion illegal is just the first step. What convincing points have you got? So far I haven't heard anything. Parents (biological and adoptive) are the unsung heroes of the prolife movement.
You're wasting your time with this one, friend :)
Lol, you never know. I don't expect to see any change though.
I said "reddit hero", slow one. The fact that you spout this off then later try to posture as an actual hero says a lot. Did you know that if you actually attempt to do even basic verification of such "neat facts" before spouting them, you'd learn to be more skeptical? Now you know the danger of using cracked.com as an intellectual resource. I see why sarcasm baffles you. Of course you don't, just as you don't understand how you can call someone 'heroic' and lavish praise, concern, and withhold criticism from them, and not understand how you're actually encouraging the very thing you've labeled "heroic" and "kind of a problem" at once. Of course I do. And in your fragile and hypocritical world, that's fine as an insult. The fact that the OP describes a "hormonal young woman" who couldn't keep her knees together doesn't enter your vocabulary or your thoughts. It would devastate you to do so. After all, girls who get knocked up due to stupid decisions need love, support and encouragement. And when they foist off their children on others, they're heroic for doing so. I don't need your motherly love and "advise". In fact, God help your damn children if this is the advice you plan on imparting to them, because otherwise your daughters are one hell of a lot more likely to be freaking "heroic". Of course not. Because people like you have made them into anything but. A woman who kills her unborn child is a victim. Always. Period. All that  changes is just what kind of victim she is. Is she the tragic girl who made a mistake (and it's really all the guy's fault)? Has she been made callous by the culture (and thus the blame lies with the culture)? She is always an object of affection and pity. Sometimes celebration. If she gets knocked up five times and gives the child up for adoption five times, she's mother of the year - an example for us all. Because if she's not, then you'd actually find yourself morally compelled to condemn their behavior. And if you have to choose between that an abortion, indications are you'll start price checking scalpels. It's easier that way. What can I say: I don't have an amusing 'historical fact' for you that appeals to your biases and which I can count on you not to fact check. This isn't about convincing you, angel. I'm very well aware that neither you, nor most people in this sub, will have your minds changed about lavishing praise, or sympathy (but never criticism) on women who abort, or who get knocked up irresponsibly. Someone can't be reasoned out of a position they weren't reasoned into, and you're not interested in reasoning. Instead, I'm speaking to onlookers who are reasonable, and who may be watching this. For you, I'm simply giving a warning: you're going to get more women who get pregnant out of wedlock. You're going to get more abortions, more abandoned children (which is, by the by, just what happens with giving up a child), and more. Except it's likely going to happen in a future where resources are scarcer, and tolerance for excuses are harder to come by. And women like you aren't going to be remembered as thoughtful and caring for having cooed that girls who get knocked up irresponsibilty are 'heroic' even as they abandoned their children. You'll be condemned for having shirked responsibility even freaking atheists are starting to come around to. Have fun struggling to feed your heroes' bastards while they pursue their school counseling degrees.
All these words and still not one compelling argument in your favour? Is this really all you got? I asked, do you have any convincing arguments and you have provided none, got any? If not, what's the point of this conversation? I made my appeal. You are distorting the heroism of carrying a baby, giving birth and making sure that he or she is cared for with the irresponsibility of getting pregnant in the first place. Are you seriously unable to separate the two? No one is suggesting that you never criticism or shame (I'm not anyway). But shame the act that is shameful not the one that is commendable. You seem to be coupling them together. I will have fun caring for these amazing children. And if a child is adopted by a married couple then your bastard comment really doesn't following (if we go by the literal definition). Let me know where you are in 15 years. I wish you the best but I wonder if you will make it very far with your negative outlook. And by the way, I believe that you do need motherly advise. I think you need it badly. Like I said, if you have any actual evidence to support your claim let me know. If you are simply spouting ad hominems and opinions then I really don't see where we can go from here. Don't get me wrong. I enjoyed the conversation. And I like you am happy to continue so that others reading can be convinced either way (unlike you I think that this conversation has put my opinion in a positive light and your way of argumentation has put your view in a negative spot light-so thanks for that. Because you literally sound like an angry young man who is struggling to get a grasp on the issues - that's my opinion). Good luck scrambling for a good argument.
Blood is thicker than water In modern society, the proverb "blood is thicker than water" is used to imply that family relationships are always more important than friends. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
You should raise your child ideally. But if you make a deal with someone to take on what is your responsibility and make that family happy and give your a child a better life then that's OK too but it's certainly not "heroic."

With the Ontario provincial election only two months away, I figured I would link this resource I've been using for a while. A useful tool in determining who to vote for in your riding.
MLA = Member of the Legislative Assembly MP = member of parliament
I really wish organizations such as the Campaign Life Coalition and Right Now have conceded defeat in every single party except for the Conservatives. Even in the Conservative Party pro-life supporters are silenced. It would be useful for these organizations to understand that by completing tying themselves to the Conservative Party they will end up dying out.
Do you think they would have better luck with the Liberals or the NDP?
They have certainly have a significant level of influence within the Conservative Party when it comes to voting as a bloc. That power does not extend to pro-life Conservative Members of Parliament. Those members who introduce pro-life private members bill are quickly met with resistance to an outright blockade by Conservative Parliamentary leadership. We saw this occur with Mr. Woodworth who encountered great resistance from the Prime Minister Harper and other Conservatives in Parliament. The most recent leadership saw a choice between Scheer who identifies personally pro-life/anti-same-sex marriage but indicated a future Conservative government would not touch either issue. This is exactly what Harper said. Pro-life Conservative MPs are again going to face resistance from their own leadership. They could have elected Maxine Bernier personally pro-choice/pro-same-sex marriage, who indicated he would not get in the way of pro-life private members bills. If pro-life supporters are being pushed out of the Conservative Party, maybe it is wise to put all your resources trying to remain relevant within one party. I just question if a long-term vision is being considered. If the Conservative Party is able to largely silence pro-life Members of Parliament where does that leave pro-life Canadians? Why continue to donate/door knock/vote for a party that is slowly rejecting you? Why not put their numbers to good use? Why they elected another leader similar to Harper I do not understand. It might be worth considering if investing small amounts of resource within other parties might be more useful than simply putting all the eggs in one basket. I freely admit that the Liberal Party and New Democrat Party are hostile to the point candidates cannot be pro-life but would it be worth some level of effort to engage with progressive pro-lifers? Has a lack of engagement allowed a complete ban on pro-life candidates within two out of four major political parties? That includes the Green Party whose policy is pro-choice but indicate any Green MPs would be allowed to vote their conscious. There are pro-life progressives who believe that being pro-life goes hand-in-hand with social justice issues. Being pro-life is not and should be not be treated as a conservative issue. At the moment, Canadian pro-life organizations dedicated to political advocacy are facing an uphill battle. In spite of this, I give major kudos to these organizations for their dedication to such an important issue. I simply think it is time for these pro-life organizations to reflect on where they are at and where they could be going.
Yeah it's actually a shame. Scheer is a clear as day pro-life supporter, yet has admitted he won't take initiative on enforcing pro-life policies.

Steven Crowder also made an excellent video on this.
I really like crowder, but I think videos about abortion, in the style of the Oliver response video is bad. His change my mind video on abortion is much better, IMO.  He even said himself that 2 people became prolife after talking to him.  That is incredible because it could save babies lives if people realized what they are actually doing.
I like both types of videos. Changing people's minds is good, and so is shitting on John Oliver.
The only reason people take John Oliver seriously is because America has a bizarre fascination with anyone who has a British accent. British accents obviously mean intelligence and expertise.
What? What about John Stewart? Oliver is arguably just as popular as Stewart even though his show is only on HBO.
John Oliver is an idiot. If he'd actually been to a CPC, he'd know that what he's saying is completely untrue. I've been to CPC's before, as a client and as a volunteer, and nothing he alleges ever happened to me or anyone I know. States and municipalities that have attempted laws trying to restrict CPC's free speech, advertising, etc. have failed to come up with even *one instance where a client came in believing she could get an abortion there. They have no evidence to back up their claims at all.
This dude is so full of vitriol.
This is a dumb article. Each point against Oliver's coverage is either splitting hairs, policing tone or just a total red herring. I found his coverage to be a little smug, and if I were deeply religious I might have found it "blasphemous" at times, but he was still perfectly fair and honest. Yes, CPCs regularly attempt to misrepresent themselves in order to help prevent an abortion. Oliver is right about that, and any honest person in the pro-life movement knows this. My mom used to discuss how these tactics should be used all the time. There is no other legitimate reason to use the term "choice" so much, and it is absolutely a commonly known policy to avoid confirming that you, as a CPC, don't provide abortions. It insults everyone's intelligence to pretend that CPCs aren't very often using misleading tactics to lure in women who are seeking abortions. Look, for most people who support or work at CPCs this is just part of the gig. Its not a big deal to keep your agenda a little hidden if your goal is to help save literal human lives. Oliver was calling them out for doing this, and he's totally right that they do. Many think these forms of deception are totally reasonable given the stakes, and I get that. You can argue that it's justified. You can't pretend it's not happening. As for this article's attack on him for attacking CPCs for attacking birth control ... Sigh. What he said was totally fair and accurate, if smug and slightly condescending.
Lying to vulnerable women in order to impose your agenda on them is not moral or acceptable. Whether abortion is murder is not a settled issue at all and it's immoral to lie to women who don't share your views. But kudos to you for being honest. I've found John Oliver to be very objective in general.
Would you lie to the authorities about transporting slaves in the underground railroad? Would you be willing to mislead someone if it stopped them from taking a life? Most ethicists would say these are reasonable things to do, and many will argue it is immoral not to. Personally, I don't agree in this case. I think the line for meaningful "murder" is far fuzzier in the early stages of life than later on, and I don't think that an abortion prior to CNS development can be seen as equivalent to murder of a full human being, but some people do. If I did believe that, I would be 100% fine with lying to someone to stop a murder. You can say it's not "settled", but it is for many people. Lying may be more "settled" as immoral, but it's nowhere near proportional. Either way, misleading vulnerable women is definitely commonplace at CPCs.
I'm not saying that lying is never ethical, but that lying to vulnerable people is always wrong. Also, no, it's not universally agreed upon that abortion is wrong. Some people consider it unacceptable, some people don't. That's why it's not a settled issue, unlike rape or slavery for example. It's not OK for CPC to impose their views on people who don't share them. I'm glad you agree that these tactics are wrong
To what degree does a position need to be "accepted" before it can be forced on the remaining people who still don't accept it? I don't need to tell you that slavery was once an incredibly contentious issue.
The example with slavery is meaningless. Slave owners were never in a vulnerable position, in fact, they had all the power. Lying to a vulnerable woman because of your own opinion on what's happening inside her uterus is kicking down.
Power over whom? A woman going to have an abortion is deciding whether or not someone lives or dies; that's an absurd degree of power.
No, she's not in a position of power, she's vulnerable. She's not deciding whether "someone" lives, she's deciding whether to continue a pregnancy.
Whatever you want to call it, it's a life-or-death decision that she gets the absolute final say in. Even if the father wants the baby, he's shit out of luck. In what way is that not a position of power?
No, it's not. She has an unwanted pregnancy that makes her less able to work, her body is changing against her will and if she has the baby she will be even more vulnerable. She's probably scared and terrified. Also, she can't end the pregnancy by herself, she needs help. She's probably desperate, especially if she falls for the tricks that unethical CPCs do. Desperate people are never in a position of power, ever. She is vulnerable.

My point is that those seemed "unsettled" at the times when lying would be most likely to be beneficial. For many people, they see abortion as being in the exact same space.
Number 1 is complete bull****. The lady does say that she wants women to be self sufficient. How does she expect a mother of an infant to be self sufficient exactly? Maternity leave exists for a reason. Women can't be expected to be self sufficient until their child is at least 1-2 years old. Maybe they can offer discounted daycare? Of course, they wouldn't. And health risks from abortion are bull****, too. Giving birth is way more risky. Port partum depression is a real condition. The breast cancer link has been proven wrong - women who've had an abortion are at the same risk of breast cancer as those who have never been pregnant. Women who carry a pregnancy to term in their younger years have a reduced risk but nobody is recommending young girls to have babies at 15 in order to reduce their risk of breast cancer. And their marketing is deceptive - they're trying to look like abortion clinics, so that women are deceived into going to them. That's deception. They should be open that they offer choices that don't include abortion. Edit: if you're going to downvote me, at least write which one of my arguments is wrong.
The only thing is, the issue is complicated by the fact that many states require a presented ultrasound in order to get an abortion, do not everyone we a crisis pregnancy center wants to be there if that makes sense. Some do go in thinking that they plan on getting an abortion.
Am I having a stroke?


Generally, college campuses are more liberal-leaning, and the liberal position leans more towards supporting abortion rights than not.  And having to constantly walk by that one dude in the quad with the signs and the megaphone having shouting matches with students probably doesn't help endear them to the other side, either.
I would say mostly because american colleges and universities overwhelmingly favor leftist viewpoints. From professors, to administrators, to policies and organizations that constantly promote more left leaning viewpoints, most of what students hear constantly is in that set of views. Many postsecondary educational institutions ignore or blatantly violate free speech rights of their students, so dissenting viewpoints might not be heard, and if they are they're not tolerated that much. Sources: https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/liberal-but-not-tolerant-on-the-nations-college-campuses/2016/02/11/0f79e8e8-d101-11e5-88cd-753e80cd29ad_story.html?noredirect=on&utm_term=.8fb7220dda11 https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2016/oct/6/liberal-professors-outnumber-conservatives-12-1/ http://www.businessinsider.com/proof-of-liberal-bias-in-hollywood-media-and-academia-2014-11 https://www.thefire.org/in-court/state-of-the-law-speech-codes/ https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/the-10-worst-colleges-for-free-speech-2017_us_58ac64bfe4b0417c4066c2f1 https://www.investors.com/politics/columnists/ben-shapiro-the-end-of-the-first-amendment/ https://thetab.com/us/2017/07/20/students-free-speech-campus-70186 http://heterodoxacademy.org/the-fearless-speech-index-who-is-afraid-to-speak-and-why/
Nice! Thanks for all the links.
This is purely theoretical and not based on any research, just some of my own experiences and musings. I was very pro-choice until, oh, I don't know—I started questioning and pondering my position and beliefs maybe two years ago. I ran my existing beliefs through a series of "lithmus test" of sorts. Things like "If I believe X, how does that apply to—" and I realized a lot of my views on life clashed with other beliefs I held and I began searching to try to reconcile it. I digress. I went through high school being told a child would ruin everything. I'd be left by the father (the likelihood of raising the child with two parents together is slim—something like 20% from some quick googling). I couldn't go to college (to fulfill my dream of being a doctor). I'd be on welfare, the child's life would be awful. They'd be raised in poverty. Parents would kick you out. You'd lose all of your friends. You'd be called a whore. A plethora of awful "end of the world" sort of things. So I was 18, fresh out of high school, with all of those ideas drilled into my head for years, and it was residual for me. I live in a very conservative area, so I can't imagine what the climate is like for a more liberal one. If I were to "bring a child into this world" then I was a failure. I was an awful person. That I was not living up to my potential. That I could lose respect and love from others—friends, family, significant others, peers, mentors. Regardless of where you fall on the spectrum, these values and beliefs we are instilling in our youth can be incredibly toxic. It's only through adulthood and life experience that I have unlearned them. My value should not be tied to my career, accomplishments, or financial status. I have value because I'm a person. I don't need to do anything or achieve anything to prove it. I'd say the same of babies. It was a long way to get here. Learning that was more empowering for me than anything else.
Because they're taught all throughout school that it is, and kids don't think anymore. I experience this first hand.
Because they are hormonal and not able to think straight. Give them 10-20 years of being out of the indoctrination system and allow their hormones to settle and suddenly they start to change their views.
Every one of my pro-choice friends from college (10 years ago and 10-15 people) are still staunchly pro choice. I don’t think they change very often.
Sure, but that's probably just something about your specific demographic. I think some still have yet to change. Statistically we know that an increase of age is correlated with prolife views. But anyway, that my opinion as to the reasoning. I'm not saying it applies to every single person.
Many young people don't have the experience to realize a fetus is human being like them who should have rights. Many more probably do acknowledge it, but being pregnant would put a crimp in their hook ups.

Yep, this right here. Don't you all know that human intelligence peaks from ages 17-23? Oh wait i was confused, that's actually the peak of their sex hormones.
By that logic, they should be pro-life.
Do you cut yourself often carrying around all that edge?
I understand the pro-choice position. They don't want a women to have an unwanted pregancy. The pro-life movement want to respect the rights of the mother AND the baby. My view is that it is a massive violation of human rights to end the life of the unborn. From the moment of conception we are undoubtful talking about a human life with eventual sentience. Although i know that this sometimes doesn't win people over, I usually then talk about how developed the baby is. Here a website with the development of the baby at 10 weeks. (this is not a prolife website so no motive to be biased) https://www.babycenter.com/6_your-pregnancy-10-weeks_1099.bc. At this stage the baby has a brain spinal chord nerves and can move their arms and legs. Abortion is allowed up to 24 weeks in the uk. However there are premature babies born at 23 weeks. this is what abortion is:http://wrtl.org/abortion/pictures-of-aborted-babies/#AbortionPictures
You're assuming I don't know all of this. I know the stages of pregnancy very well. I also had an abortion at 5 weeks and I know what an embryo looks like at 5 weeks. I just don't think an embryo (a fetus maybe) is a person - it's just DNA. It has no capacity for consciousness. Think about it, what is your true identity, is it your body or your consciousness? If given choice between the two, which one would you choose to preserve for yourself? Consciousness is what makes us human and consciousness doesn't develop until really late in the pregnancy. DNA is not consciousness (identical twins are two different people and chimeras have two sets of DNA but they're one person). A heartbeat is not consciousness. So no, a capacity for a person is not a person.
Could you show evidence/quote/link that the baby isn't conscious until late in the pregnancy and give a less vague time. Thanks.
I don't have time to find links now, but I think we can all agree that consciousness requires a brain, and quite a developed brain at that. Just look at your own link about when the brain develops and you can judge for yourself whether an embryo is capable of consciousness or not Edit : I found this : https://www.nature.com/articles/pr200950 "Thalamic afferents to the cortex develop from approxi- mately 12–16 wk of gestation, reach the cortical subplate, but “wait” until they grow into the cortical plate (16). At this stage, only long depolarization of the deep layers may reach the cortex (17) (Fig. 2). After 24 wk, thalamocortical axons grow into the somatosensory, auditory, visual, and frontal cortices and the pathways mediating pain perception become functional around the 29 –30 wk" It's not clear when exactly (and if) a fetus is capable of consciousness but it's obvious that an embryo is not. Here's another article with less scientific jargon: https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/when-does-consciousness-arise/ "Consciousness requires a sophisticated network of highly interconnected components, nerve cells. Its physical substrate, the thalamo-cortical complex that provides consciousness with its highly elaborate content, begins to be in place between the 24th and 28th week of gestation. Roughly two months later synchrony of the electroencephalographic (EEG) rhythm across both cortical hemispheres signals the onset of global neuronal integration. Thus, many of the circuit elements necessary for consciousness are in place by the third trimester. " I don't support a third trimester abortion BTW and I'm unsure about a second trimester one.
Dat critical thinking.
Consciousness is not a concrete concept. No one knows what it is or exactly where it comes from but, you wouldn’t have it without your physical body. And that is what we all have in common, the fact that we are living human organisms.
It's pretty obvious that you need a brain for consciousness to exist
Funny I hear prochoicers throwing around this term all the time but when asked to concretely define it they have a very difficult time. You can be unconscious even with a brain and it is possible that an entity experiences some level of consciousness even with mere nerves. So tell me, what is your definition of consciousness?
Yeah, but it is also hard to get pro lifers to define at what point a woman's life is in enough danger to warrant abortion. These are two ideas we all have to work out. I don't wanna go around thinking that consciousness isn't important, but at the same time I don't wanna say that abortion should be warranted in every not ideal medical situation. Sometimes its hard to find hard lines. It is a good point to bring up when you cant define them, but at the same time I do not think it totally negates the argument.
You’re comparing apples to oranges. The obvious response would be that we already have basic guidelines for self defence and triage situations. We follow those. The problem with not defining consciousness is that the claim of personhood is made based on an abstract concept rather than a real physical and scientific reality. If there is no objective way to measure a physical phenomenon then it just becomes a subjective and arbitrary line.
Babies have brains at least 9ish months before "late pregnancy" Ants have brains Waterbears have brains EDIT: i was actually just inspired to Google Image search "waterbear brains" out of curiosity and this was there, and it's too relevant to not share https://i.imgur.com/kHbfel8.png
Omg this is great! hahaaaha
I don't really understand the relevance of your comment?
It basically doesn't take any complexity for an organism to have and use a brain, is my point.
Ok. Got it now. Thanks.
Please define exactly what you mean by "consciousness", because consciousness can mean a lot of different things.
I like this definition : "Consciousness is the quality or state of awareness, or, of being aware of an external object or something within oneself. It has been defined as: sentience, awareness, subjectivity, the ability to experience or to feel, wakefulness, having a sense of selfhood, and the executive control system of the mind" An embryo is not capable of any of that. It would be disingenuous to argue otherwise.
I'm so glad you like that definition. It really helps back up your ad hoc definition of what makes someone human. Also an infant doesn't fit that description. Would you like to further modify your definition to ensure that it conveniently only fits human fetuses? If you already believe abortion is fine, and then work backwards from there to find a way to justify it, you've lost.
An infant does fit that description though. A fetus after a certain stage of development may or may not. An embryo has no capacity for it though. I don't support late term abortions except in special circumstances. What have I lost exactly?
The only part of that that an infant fits is "ability to experience or to feel." An infant has no sentience, awareness, subjectivity, sense of selfhood, or executive control system of the mind, whatever the shit that means. So if your argument is that we can kill a fetus because it isn't conscious by your definition, we can also kill an infant because it doesn't fit your description of consciousness either.
Yes, it does. https://www.livescience.com/41398-baby-awareness.html And I've already made it clear that when it comes to fetuses, I'm not completely settled. I'm mainly talking about embryos

You're unconscious when you sleep. Are you sure you want this to be the line we draw on killing?
Being unconscious and being incapable of consciousness are completely different things...
Things that are not capable of consciousness will never be conscious. If a person or organism eventually gains or regains consciousness, doesn't that mean they were never incapable of consciousness, they just were not conscious at that time?
If only they had the intellect to understand this basic logic. Sighs. Good luck.
An embryo has no capacity and no history of consciousness. It has the potential to develop it but that's exactly my point - it's not a person, just the potential to become a person.
If it has no capacity for consciousness then how does it ever become conscious? Okay, I'll use your terms,  arguendo, and say that an embryo isn't alive because it isn't capable of consciousness, it is only capable of becoming capable of becoming conscious. Are there any other non-living things that are capable of becoming capable of becoming conscious?

Just the ability to perceive one's surroundings, then? Because I can guarantee that's not what makes us human; almost every animal species has some form of that.
More like they just got out of high school and still haven’t learned to think for themselves. Plus indoctrination and hormones. Most people will get out of their prochoice stage as they approach their 30s and 40s. You get a little wiser.
Can confirm, but it happened to me a bit earlier than that.
They like to think that, but really they're just to emotionally immature to gaf about anyone else.
Recently, an appeals court told Ohio that they must continue funding Planned Parenthood [http://www.lifenews.com/2018/04/18/appeals-court-forces-ohio-to-fund-planned-parenthood-abortion-biz/]. I Thought That Congress Passed A Law [Http://Www.Latimes.Com/Politics/Washington/La-Na-Essential-Washington-Updates-Trump-Signs-Law-That-Allows-States-To-1492129331-Htmlstory.Html] That Allowed States To Revoke Planned Parenthood Funding. How Can A Judge Tell Them They Can't Do What That Law Says They Can? Does it just apply to certain types of funding? If so, what kinds are allowed to be cut? Can the state or other interested parties appeal this decision? And what does this mean for other states that have had similar restrictions placed on them forcing them to fund abortion providers?

I would say don’t because the article presents pretty much every pro-choice argument, numerous straw men, and various other logical fallacies that are only useful for encouraging those that already agree with the author and pissing off those who oppose. Way too much time would be spent for very little reward. Another option is to suggest to your friend that you two discuss this one-one-one
What are your goals in responding to them?
Mmm, good question. Maybe not to change their mind (that would be difficult and perhaps impossible), but to at least have then consider that the prolife movement isn't all morons or people who want to kill those who have had an abortion. And facts about how a fetus is actually a person.
The first part shouldn't be too hard. The pro-life movement is by a wide margin against the idea of legal action against women who get abortions. We freaked out when Mr. Trump suggested it, because it was so not what most of us believe (plus kinda outted him for not having really looked into the movement). And I've never heard ANYONE aside from this one guy she's citing ever suggest executing women. So I would say for that part, ask your friend to consider how absurd it would be to single out a pro-choice person who said, say, they wish pro-lifers would get raped so they would be faced to consider abortion and act like that's at all representative of the pro-choice side. It's absolute nonsense, they're not like that. We need to have honest conversations, but people love strawmen. But instead, someone like this author just repeat laundry lists of claims based on one or two data points. Heck, we do it, too. LifeNews just tweeted that all the Democrats are opposing Pompeo simply because he's pro-life. But then they only cited one instance! We can't do things like that to each other, we just piss one another off and get bitter. As for the fetus isn't a person, I mean, there's individual DNA, there's the argument that we first become a single unrepeated organism at conception, that even for months outside the womb we can't survive on our own. The trick is getting the people who disagree with you to even consider your argument.
Maybe something like, "I disagree with this, and am open to discussing it if you want to." Consider not thinking of it as "facts about how a fetus is actually a person," but instead, "why I think a fetus is a person."
You can't because an embryo is not a person. It has no consciousness and consciousness is what defines the human experience. It's just potential
Says who?
Living human beings are often unconscious. Like every 16 hours or so. For around 8 hours at a time.
Huh?

Haha haha, great. Of course, a being with no brain is the same as a developed person of a different race or even better, a religious identity (which BTW is only possible due to the consciousness that humankind has)
Point being that each of these things is fairly arbitrary when deciding who gets human rights. Instead of, you know, all humans, regardless of age, size, skin color, consciousness, or religion.
even if it is just potential, what gives you the right to destroy it?
What gives it the right to use my body against my will?
Because you had sex or got raped, and a life was created. Therefore it’s your responsibility to give up the right to your own body for 9 months. A life is more important than your bodily autonomy. I don’t agree with it, but apparently it’s their argument. Funny how someone who causes a car crash isn’t required to give up blood to the victims. Perhaps that should be a part of their law making as well. Don’t worry, pro-life will never succeed. A majority of people in the USA do not want a woman’s organs to be used by anyone against their will. It’s only a matter of time before it’s all forgotten and taught in the history books as antiquated thinking.
The problem with arguments like this is that they arbitrarily use philosophical or scientific means to define personhood. So in one state, a person could be defined as someone who exists independently of her mother's body (someone born); in another, it could be a person whose neurons are consistent with what we observe in patients who have the potential for full consciousness; in another, when the fetus has ears or eyes or a thumb... That's giving a lot of power to politicians over the autonomy of a body (and falling into the Cartesian 'I think therefore I am' fallacy). A safer stance, in my humble opinion, would be to assume a person is that which has the potential to be born or has been born with human DNA unless proven otherwise.

More words: False and false. These people literally just make shit up to soothe themselves.

If you actually read the thread, people there are saying the exact same thing....
This is not even on the fringe. People say it is but its not. In a random group of millenial women, it will be the correct stance. "Up until the cord is cut it's my body"
I do. They do realize that birth ends pregnancy right? There's literally no good reason to purposefully kill the fetus before it comes out first. This isn't even "late stages," it's halfway through a pregnancy. Over a hundred of these occur every day.
No words.


How can an illegal immigrant have a "right" to anything that a civilian does? That person is not a member of this country. Are they trying to act like abortion is a human right, like liberty? If so, that's insane! The REAL right is the right to life, from which all other rights naturally flow. How do they function if they don't even understand that?!
People still have rights if they aren't citizens. It's not like you can beat or steal from and illegal immigrant. They don't have the right to vote but that's about it.
They can't drive or carry firearms. They have a lot of curtailed rights.
they can drive actually, I am one. You have to be a DACA recipient though. You have to renew your license every two years
Because human rights are universal, including the right to bodily autonomy.
I make a distinction between types of rights in my comment
Yes, and abortion is an expression of the right to bodily autonomy which is a universal human right. You can't force someone to do things with their bodies, no matter what.
You can't just kill someone and say it's an expression of your bodily autonomy, though. Inside or outside the womb: human life is worthy of protection.
Alternate headline: Leftists compromise on immigration, propose solution to "anchor baby" problem. More seriously, I'm amazed that this is even a thing. It really is a sacrament for some.
Ugh. I am totally fine with anchor babies if the alternative is killing them at the behest of our shitty government.


Donations for staff support for this organization is below - https://www.sabc.ca/donate/staff-support/ Please donate if you can or are comfortable with it.
If people cared they should be fighting to have pro-life candidates running for nominations in all parties. The only party open to pro-life candidates and allowing them to voice their opinions is the Green Party of Canada.


Instead we'll be treated like abolitionists
That's a title I wear with pride.  Modern day abolitionist
Same, just noting how they were treated as vicious trouble makers
I've often referred to pro-lifers as neo-abolitionists.

You must have caught that before my edit.
I sure did.  :)  That makes more sense.
Agreed sorry, saw the edit
You must have caught that before my edit.
yeah, sorry
No need to apologize for my mistakes.
I'd rather be an abolitionist than an abortionist.
The future generations will read about our efforts in the history books as the abolitionists of modern day child-sacrifice.
One day we will be treated that way.
Love ben!
I recently got into a debate with one of the most ignorant people I've ever talked to. The most disturbing part was that she recognized that life begins at conception and that abortion is the killing of a baby, but she claimed that it was justified "self-defense" and "defending your person." She claimed that the IV and V amendments gave her the right to "defend herself from a fetus without the government interfering in her property/body." Like how can you even begin to reason with such people? On top of that, they are so damn arrogant and condescending. Like their argument makes no sense whatsoever, but they act like they're geniuses. It's insufferable.
You remain as objective as possible and step away when you realize nothing good can come of continuing the conversation. I recently had an unpleasant debate with the person to whom you are referring and I can agree with you that it was the worst experience I’ve had arguing about this topic because the person seemed arrogant and condescending. However, we do not let emotions get the best of us because if we have hatred in our heart we are murdering our neighbor.
Hey I just wanted to say thank you for saying this and I respect that. I remember our conversation and I'm sorry you had that experience. I remember exactly what was said too so if you'd like to talk about it further and let me know what bothered you specifically I'd be happy to hear and apologize. I too was disturbed by some of the things you said, but considering you saying this now, I feel it is water under the bridge, unless you wish to discuss specifics on my end that I did wrong for my own personal growth, that would be appreciated. Have a good day. : )
Okay, here are some of the things you said that were irritating: Saying my perspective ridiculous, absurd, blows your mind Capitalizing many sentences in order to yell through text. It brings needless angry emotion into the debate and "sounds" arrogant. Patronizing me through statements like, "Let me say this again for you, and if you need to, read it aloud", "When you say things do you think "If I just say that it makes it true?"", "Do you have any concept of basic human rights at all? I don't think you do", "Please wake the fuck up", "Dude, are you spaced out or what?", "again, you are totally fucking wrong", "you are denying reality", "its me begging you to EDUCATE YOURSELF", "its INSANE", "corpses have more human rights than women in your ethics", "you're rambling. Show me how. Define your logic. If you can't then STFU", "IN ALL OTHER MATTERS OF YOUR OWN LIFE YOU ARE A COMPLETE HYPOCRITE. AND YOU WOULD NEVER ARGUE THIS, EXCEPT BASED ON YOU OBSESSION WITH FORCING WOMEN TO GIVE BIRTH ALL OTHER CIRCUMSTANCES IN APPLYING THIS LOGIC YOU WOULD BE DEEMED INSANE BY THE VAST MAJORITY, ITS ONLY PRO LIFERS WHO CLING TO A COMMON IGNORANCE ABOUT WOMEN DESERVING EQUAL RIGHTS", "this is basic fucking shit man", "Then you have no leg to stand on. Ethically. At all. And I keep trying to explain to you how but you refuse to listen", "if you do not agree, then you are pro-slavery. Simple. End", "Go clutch your pearls. I did no such thing. You are just looking for excuses to exit because I demand intellectual rigor that you are not prepared for", "you're full of shit", "this isn't an airport honey, you don't have to announce your departure. Run away then", "Dude shut the fuck up", "wake the fuck up". I have also read comments you have made on various other posts, such as the one with OP, that were insulting. I honestly put way more effort in finding those examples than I wish I had, but there they are. I make a habit of spending more time on the pro-choice subreddit because that's where I learn more about my opposition's view and get to benefit from my opposition's critique of my view. Shouting into an echo chamber does no good except to feel better about myself. This is an emotional topic for people like you and me who care enough to voice our views about it, but it is important to stay civil and focus more on increasing knowledge than winning arguments. I also realize I was disrespectful at times which is why I stopped responding, though perhaps I should have made that decision sooner. I hope we can have civil discourse in the future, for I perceive that you come at this topic from a different angle and with different sources than others I have encountered. I could learn a lot about both sides of this issue from you. I wish you a good day as well
Sigh okay. I guess you want to stomp on the olive branch? I think it was after you called me dishonest for merely replying to you.  You also compared consensual sex with shooting heroin and blowing someones brains out with a gun. Sorry but that is absurd. I will not take that back. I capitalize sometimes in long replies as a form of formatting important concepts but I understand this can come across as intense. Don't assume please. Yep this was after you called me dishonest and did not explain how. A baseless accusation I felt was incredibly insulting and deserved to be dealt with in kind. That is true. And not an insult. Yep after you insulted me. I reserve the right to respond  with measure to insults to my character. You called me "dishonest, disrespectful, and illogical" with nothing to back that up. If you are sensitive to this kind of verbiage then don't call people dishonest just because you disagree with them. Live by the golden rule. I only respond in kind. Once again, all direct quotes from me after you copped out and did an ad hominem: "You have been dishonest, disrespectful, and illogical" With nothing backing it up. A baseless ad hominem that you need to take responsibility for. https://www.reddit.com/r/prochoice/comments/89vlf9/what_irritates_me_the_most/dx1upxn/?context=3 You should also take responsibility for calling me ridiculous as well. That's right I did no such thing. I do not take kindly to baseless accusations. You want to point fingers and say I did something wrong you back it up with facts. You don't call people dishonest without a strong basis for that. What exactly did I do that was dishonest? All this stuff was in my final reply to you. And you know that and anyone who cares can read that. I never pretend to have a high horse with anyone. If you are insulting me and others I will respond in kind. If you strike me in the face, I will strike you back. If you apologize, I will apologize. That is how I roll. Anyone who pays attention to my posts can see that. I don't really care for people who pretend to be victims when they are not. Yep or you can just link to the whole thread. Interestingly you didn't, you took them out of context. I wonder why? So that people couldn't see that you called me dishonest first? That you compared pregnant women to heroin addicts and sex to shooting someone in the face? Should I clap my hands for you that you pretend that you are blameless here after I extended an olive branch to you? Nope, you took my apology as an opportunity you should not have taken, to grandstand and browbeat when you really shouldn't have. Because like I told you, I remember everything that happened. Don't call people dishonest unless you have a lot of proof for it and are willing to share. That's low. I also hope that you never ever compare women having sex to shooting heroin or shooting someone in the head, ever, ever again.
I’m not stomping on the olive branch. You asked me what specifically bothered me so I gave specifics. I didn’t link the entire thread because you told me to be specific. I apologize for accusing you of being dishonest. If you still want an explanation as to why, it’s because I felt you were misrepresenting my arguments. That is not justification, and it won’t happen again. However, I wouldn’t call it an ad hominem because I wasn’t using that language to try and further my argument, just explain why I was leaving the conversation. The quotes were meant to show specific problematic rhetoric, not suggest that what you said was not in reaction to my disrespect. I sincerely don’t understand why you have such a problem with me comparing pregnant women to heroin users when I’m only using that analogy to focus on cause and affect, not morality. I’m not looking down on anyone here. I am also very confused by two things: I don’t know why you thought I was defending you in my original comment to this post. I called you arrogant and condescending, yet you thought I was defending you? Then when you thanked me and extended the olive branch, I thought maybe we could actually have some great debates in the future and be civil, so I responded in a way that I genuinely thought would be received humbly, that you would apologize for your disrespect and I for mine. At the end I added my sincere desire to learn from you via respectful debate and how all debates should be handled. When I said, “This is an emotional topic for people like you and me who care enough to voice our views about it, but it is important to stay civil and focus more on increasing knowledge than winning arguments.” I wasn’t implying that that’s something I do and you don’t and you should, I was simply stating my belief, hoping you shared it. Hopefully we can get on the same page and start understanding each other so we can actually reconcile and move forward
Okay, agree to disagree but that's fine, lets just call it a cultural misunderstanding. Doing that without giving a complete explanation is very rude and it is an ad hominem. In my country that's called "pissing on someones doorstep." If you need an excuse to leave, and you aren't willing to own it completely, then just leave. No need to lob a bomb on your way out the door. That's childish. Cause and effect is directly linked to the morality and vice versa. If sex was a crime, either self-destructive or other-destructive, then this would of course be a completely different conversation. And to me it seems like pro life people don't understand that. Sex is not a crime, nor is it bad, nor is it reckless behavior for which you could be held liable in the slightest. Nothing about having sex is like pulling the trigger of a gun. FFS. Nothing about sex causes a zygote to implant in a uterus, like as you stated "letting the needle find the vein." I didn't think you were, I thought you were taking personal responsibility which I admired. Dude your opinions are yours. First of all you stated "it seemed like" which to me was a qualifier indicating personal responsibility. Do you want me to be mad at you lol? If I got upset with every single opinion I'd never breathe. Maybe it was the fact you completely responded one-sidely. Which I had a concern you would do, but I didn't want to think you would. The wall of text ended with no acknowledgement by you of any of your bad behavior which hurts you know? To me the last paragraph seemed like posturing. But maybe I was wrong. Again, cultural differences. I don't doubt it for a second. I believe that you are a good person who is trying to do good in the world, even though we disagree about things. : )

Guess I win then because you cant answer any questions nor provide any citations for your claims. So you gotta troll me in other subs. You're pathetic.

Yeah if you sing it outloud the sun will rise in the west too.
I agree. That's so hard though. It's so tempting to just rage at the other person. I mean they're literally complicit in murder. Like this isn't a simple difference of opinion, these people are having a real-life impact. As we speak, children are actually being murdered because people think it's okay. That's why I feel so angry. Like it's not a joke. This is actually happening. Children are being killed.
The bodily autonomy argument is a go-to today for pro-choicers who aren't willing to be blatantly pro-abortion. And bodily autonomy is important when it remains a reasonable construct which protects humans and does not violate someone else's right to life. The problem is that they believe that the concept turns your innards into some sort of sovereign state where you are the dictator who can kill and torture anyone who has the misfortune of being conceived in your Fallopian tubes for any reason whatsoever. Many pro-choicers suggest that they are against killing "sentient" humans or humans that can experience pain or whatever, but still insist on bodily autonomy. The problem is that the bodily autonomy argument not only allows abortion, it requires that it be acceptable right up until the moment the child is born. Otherwise, there they must admit that there is a limitation on bodily autonomy.  To continue to use the concept, those who support bodily autonomy cannot permit any sort of limitation to be envisioned as it admits that there are higher moral and ethical considerations than bodily autonomy. And, of course, there are higher moral and ethical considerations, the right to life being the major one.
Isn't their argument that the cut-off is once the baby can survive outside the womb on its own?
That is certainly one of the lines that pro-choicers tend to use.  There are others like brain waves or other response criteria. However, if the argument is that a woman has a right to complete bodily autonomy, then even a line that would sort of make sense like survival outside the womb could not be imposed by the State on the woman. Otherwise, you could easily make an argument that the state does have the right to legislate in regard to pregnancies, in spite of bodily autonomy. And if this is the case, you can certainly suggest that there may be higher concerns in regard to pregnancy than simple autonomy of a woman's body. There is no question that overriding bodily autonomy is an uncomfortable situation, but when it clashes with a more fundamental right, such as the right to life, it has to take a back seat.
If you don't believe women deserve complete bodily autonomy as long as there is a class of persons called a zygote/fetus that is occupying or using it, how do you propose to maintain 14th amendment equal protection under the law? How is this not a clear case of class based legislation where one set of persons (fetuses) deserves more right women's bodies than any other class of persons? My other question would be, if you draft women's bodies for this cause of birthing fetuses, where is the oath of service, just compensation, means of arbitration and right of conscientious objection. But mostly I'm concerned with just compensation, especially for the loss of blood, recovery time, and any other complications that result from the labor and risk of pregnancy. These things would be forced on women by the government in exchange for what exactly? If you do not provide just compensation then how is that different from chattal slavery? Sex is a legal act, not an illegal breach of tort for which you can deny the right to self defense and bodily autonomy based on an ongoing condition of crime or suspicion of crime...and certainly not for only one class of persons merely based on the medical condition of the woman and/or age of person (fetus). BTW u/ Rtgh3 came to the prolife forum calling people names. There was no debate. He stared out raging at people and I chose to try to engage with him anyway. I feel that it was a mistake. He called us heathens, heretics, called me a unrepentant arrogant reprobate, cretin, murderer, called me a Nazi, a disgrace to women, worse than ISIS, said women shouldn't vote, I need to go back to the kitchen, called me and my boyfriend faggots, called me hyper-sexual, said my tiny woman brain couldn't handle it, that I'm mentally unwell and I must be ugly af.
To start off with, I presume you allege that Rtgh3 came to the pro-choice forum to harangue you, since I haven't seen posts to that effect here.  If that is the case, I don't support that sort of behavior and while I share his frustrations in regard to certain argumentation given by the pro-choice side, I don't think that it is a useful way to engage others in discussion. My agreement with anyone in the forum is strictly based on pro-life principles.  I am certain I have disagreements with some people here on other topics.  There would be people here, including myself, who would be upset to be associated with certain viewpoints you have said were expressed. To address your points about abortion, in most cases (albeit not all) the woman takes the action to participate in the process of reproduction, which people will lump under the colloquial term: "sex".  Since "sex" can refer to a number of activities that are not reproductive, I do want to be clear about what I'm talking about. Since a child cannot come into being, one way or another, without participation of two people in the sex act (barring certain technological advancements), I'd say she has almost complete control over her ability to reproduce or not unless she's raped or otherwise impaired. As an augmentation to her ability to choose whether to reproduce, we have developed things like birth control to aid in that.  I am not 100% on birth control in all cases philosophically, but my reservations in that regard are entirely separate from my opposition to abortion on-demand.  I am, however, 100% in favor of sexual education so that each available option is described and discussed for responsible sex. Ultimately, though, whether the choice was hers entirely, or not, there is a human child in there who, through no fault of their own, is now facing death based merely on the circumstances of their conception. What is more, the mother does not have her life automatically threatened by delivering the child to term.  Pregnancy is extremely inconvenient and birth can be dangerous, but ultimately it is a process that billions of women have undergone throughout all of recorded history, with obvious success. We are not drafting anyone's body for anything, I have no control whether a child will come into being we certainly do not propose to change that.  We did not put the child in her, and I would never suggest that it is legitimate to force her to start that process without her consent. Nevertheless, we have a human being who has come about, and while that that human being does not have more rights than the parent, they do have equal right to life as the parent.  Permitting a legal means of killing that person is tantamount to execution, which usually requires guilt or some need for immediate self-defense. Now, should the mother be physically endangered by the existence of the child, most pro-life people support action being taken to protect the life of the mother which might cause the death of the child.  Strictly speaking, this could entail an actual abortion procedure, but might simply be a miscarriage caused by treatment. I don't think some conception of compensation is really germane here.  Not all decisions in life gain us compensation.  And for most women, sex is a decision made freely.  That decision has produced a responsibility she may not want, but is usually easily avoidable before it becomes necessary to protect a second human being.  I know quite a few women intimately who have easily avoided pregnancy while maintaining an active sex life for decades. Make no mistake, I don't like a situation where we must ask someone to bear a responsibility that they do not want, and in the case of rape, that they did not consent to.  But I won't consign another human to be killed because they have become inconvenient.  If that produces problems, those problems can, and should, be solved another way.
Yep, he did, he literally started off name calling. https://www.reddit.com/r/prochoice/comments/8c5xt9/a_christian_argument_for_abortion/dxfdl3t/ There's no debate here that (consensual) sex has a natural risk of a zygote managing to successfully implant into a woman, the question is therefore, do women deserve unequal rights to their own bodies because you believe zygotes have superior rights than all other people. (Consentual) sex also has a risk of ejaculation. No one would ever say sex is an automatic consent for being ejacuated in against one's will, so why would therefore anyone argue then that sex is automatically consent to be pregnant which is then consent to give birth. See here's the thing, we remove bodily autonomy in America based on very very few exceptions. One of those is that you are in the process of breaking the law or are in suspicion of breaking the law (aka you have no right to bodily autonomy while recklessly endangering others.) The other is that you've been drafted by the military for which you need an act of congress in a time of crisis and are provided just compensation therefore in exchange for losing your bodily rights. All other forms would be a violation of the bill of rights. So do you want to make sex illegal? Or do you want to provide women just compensation for forcing them to endure medical difficulties, medical wounds and trauma against their will? You literally are, if you make women's bodies the public domain and thus deny them their right to privacy, their right to self defense from unwanted contact from other people (unless you wish to compensate women fairly for that that's a direct violation of the EPC clause of the 14th amendmemnt) as well as the right to the medical care of their choosing therefore. They have no more right to life while they are non-consentually violating someone elses body as any other person does. Which is none. Unless you believe women, and women alone have a different set of rules regarding continuous consent, duty to retreat and self defense etc than all other classes of people. Does anyone have a duty to retreat from someone they physically cannot retreat from? (Aka an impossible duty to retreat?) All pregnancies are physically dangerous. All pregnancies that end in birth, miscarriage or abortion, result in blood loss, immuno-compromization, and internal wounds. To deny this is to deny the reality of pregnancy. By comparison, most rapes leave no trace on the body, yet no one would argue lethal force as a last resort is not legal for a rape. If you make women's bodies the public domain and jurisdiction of the government and deny their bodily right to self-protection you are drafting them. You then either provide them the rights as conscripted individuals for the loss of their privacy, freedom and wellness, and forcing them to literally labor and suffer  for your cause, or you are enslaving them unless you 1) provide a means of just compensation or 2) make sex some kind of breach of tort whereby pregnancy is some kind of ongoing reckless fetal endangerment ...aka an ongoing crime. I'm free to do any action to protect my body from risks of legal activities even if that risk takes the form of another person touching my body in a way that I do not consent to. Even if that risk was increased by my engaging in these activities. Risks of things are not legal consent for any person for their human rights to be taken away without just compensation. So if it is a heavy burden for you morally why (and this troubles me) why do pro-lifers rarely talk about providing just compensation for the women who would be disabled (even for a short time - disabled is disabled - the placental detachment usually takes 6 weeks to heal) due to being forced to give birth. What about an internal wound the size of a dinner plate that you loose 1/10th of your blood volume from (detachment of the placenta - happens in every pregnancy) is a mere inconvenience to you? What about losing a half quart to a quart of blood is a mere inconvenience? Why do pro-life people love this word so much to minimize what pregnancy is and does? We pay privates in the military who merely sit on their butts all day long more consideration as "veterans" than we do to women who literally BLEED AND SUFFER WOUNDS to give birth to new life. Edit: BTW, I would become pro-life if people decided to make giving birth a draft for which women's medical care is paid for, their disabilities paid for, if they die or are disabled from force birth against their will their families get pensions, and if they want to conscientiously object they would also have that right. Edit 2: I didn't downvote you. I'm not a troll. Please respect my reasonable discussion.
A zygote is a human being.  We were all zygotes, this is just a word for a developmental stage of humans, like fetus, or child, or adolescent.  So we are talking about a human being here. And I believe that a human has equal right to life as any other human.  I rather think that discrimination based on their class (ie. zygote developmental stage) really comes down on the side of the child. Because a human's right to life is equal, despite developmental stage, then we have to go into what I would call adjudication of least harm when we are comparing a human to a human. (a) In a pregnancy, there is no argument that a woman's life can be endangered and her standard of living impacted.  These effects could be permanent or temporary, but are in no way are guarunteed.  Millions of women get pregnant every year on purpose and we consider this perfectly normal, albeit a condition that requires special care. (b) When the child is aborted, it is killed.  This immediately ends their existence, an event from which there is no return. While I am a proponent of reasonable bodily autonomy, I note that in this case, insisting on bodily autonomy causes the death of the child in all cases.  Although we recognize that the effects on the mother are nothing to sneeze at, but there is no comparison to the objective denial of the child's right to life.  The prevention of a worst case scenario on the woman, automatically becomes the realization of the worst case scenario on the child.  This is not equitable. In short, what is happening to the mother may or may not be fair, based on her actions, but abortion on-demand is always unfair to the child except in the one instance of life threatening pregnancy. We have situations every day where we consent to a process, not the specifics of that process.  There may be controllable situations in that process, such as the ability to control and avoid ejaculation, although I would note that even this is not always 100% controllable.  If you consent to penetration and proceed with the process of intercourse, it is certainly possible to find yourself overstimulated and prematurely ejaculate.  Sperm have also been found in pre-ejaculate.  Condoms fail.  Etc.  I don't think I need to point out that people have had little surprises even using birth control. When you undertake an action, you accept risk.  If I operate a car, I do not consent to some pedestrian running out in front of me, and it is not legal for them to do so, but I may still be responsible if I was unable to stop in a reasonable time or I was not paying attention and this unusual event occurs. Sexual intercourse has risk of pregnancy.  We can attempt to mitigate that risk, but the risk remains.  Suggesting that you undertake an action with a known risk, and then suggest that the realization of that risk allows you to kill someone else to prevent the effects of that risk is irresponsible, and certainly not equitible. I would think that protecting someone's life would be a very, very good reason to make an exception.  Especially given the lack of alternatives to protect their life in this situation. Making the woman's body public domain would suggest that the state could force any child on the woman, at any time, for any reason.  You know this is not the case.  Only rape even comes close to this, and rape is already illegal and certainly not permitted by the state.  The reason a woman has a child is because she has had sex, not because she was forcefully impregnanted by law.  The pro-life position does not propose to choose her partners, if she engages in sex, nor when she engages in sex.  We are only interested in protecting the resulting human being.  Should a woman not engage in sexual activity, or be able to do so without getting pregnant, we have no interest and do not want any interest in her body. The child had no choice in where they came into being.  The only people who have any choice in that matter are the parents.  A rapist may violate a woman, but the resulting child cannot as they did not even exist until one or both of those people engaged in that activity. Let's say a child was kidnapped, bound and airdropped into North Korea, a sovereign nation.  The North Koreans state that they are a sovereign country that can dispose of intruders any way they choose.  So they immediately execute the child after a short trial.  Did the child actually violate the borders of North Korea?  I think you would agree that while that child would definitely be in the bounds of North Korea, the child did not intentionally violate anyones rights or boundaries.  We might suggest that, given the situation, that the child is a victim, rather than the perpetrator of the violation. Let's break that down.  First of all, plenty of pro-life people want to help women and children and are willing to spend time and money to do so. However, killing human beings is wrong unless you can justify it via self-defense.  There can be no bargaining there.  Suggestions that we need to either agree to support some other person or accept their termination is unacceptable. So, you will find that many pro-life people regard the argument you are making as important, but a tangent.  I can believe a person is worthy of protection, and not have to adopt them or vote for some program. You seem to want to have mothers be compensated for their efforts for giving birth.  I can't say I completely disagree with this, but as I pointed out above, it is not really an argument for or against abortion. Whether or not a woman suffers injury from pregnancy does not change the fact that termination ensures fatal injury to another person.  If you are concerned with the serious, but common side effects of pregnancy this much, I fail to understand how you are not even more concerned with the killing of innocent children.
That's correct I never deny that for the sake of my arguments. Do certain types of people get superior rights to others based on their age, race, class, gender or status? Why do zygotes, because of their age, get a superior right to use women's bodies? Have you read anything I have to say? The fetus burrows on it's own into the lining of the uterus or else it's not a pregnancy. Sex does not force a fetus to travel up into the uterus. That unconscious behavior happens completely independently of sex. There's no "BLAME'" you can put on anyone that makes any of your "pro-life" views any less unrealistic. I feel that a lot of pro-lifers can only view the world in a way that only good things happen to good people and only bad things happen to bad people. As if in order for a woman to have equal rights to her body, she must be suffering from harm coming from a conscious, fully sentient kind of demonic evil or something. That's not how reality works and that's not how human rights work. So sex is kidnapping? Can you explain how 1) the zygote burrowing on it's own is kidnapping and 2) why you would compare a legal, beneficial act to society, similar to a horrendous crime? Yes it is, please read the bill of rights a bit more thoroughly. Women are not criminals because they have uteruses or engaged in sex. So how are you justifying taking away their bodily rights based on the fact they are women who happen to be subject to the existence of a zygote inside of them? You are prioritizing zygotes lives over womens freedom and health. When that happens that is called a draft. For which you cannot do without providing just compensation therefore, or else you are merely making women slaves. Read the 4th and 5th amendments to the US constitution please. I want to hear you say that aloud about anything else, anyone else being put to bodily risk and harm against their will. Heck, say it about slavery. Say "we dont' really care if slaves are harmed, they have no right to fatal self defense from their masters." You would never, because it is insane. No one has to de-escalate force when the only option is lethal force. No, not because they don't have a "good enough" reason of only a quart of so of blood loss. (sarcasm!) Do you deny the reality of what pregnancy is and that most rapes and assaults are even less harmful than giving birth? Its insane to me that you obsess only about putting women in a position of actual literal harm to their bodies, as well as inferior privacy and inferior right and you cannot comprehend why just compensation would be necessary for it to be fair and legal. Lastly they aren't children, they're fetuses. Saying they're children to me is like saying an egg is a chicken.
I take it you believe that abortion is or should be permissible at any stage of the child's development, then? Edit for clarification: morally permissible rather than legal
Do you believe anyone has a duty to retreat (and that includes waiting) from someone or something they cannot physically retreat from?
Why didn't you answer my question?
Sorry, yes. This is very easy, because pregnancy is exponentially more dangerous the later the stage. Labor and delivery being the most dangerous part, and ofc with any complications (c-sections included) making that even more dangerous. I do not believe anyone has an impossibe duty to retreat  (and that includes waiting) from someone or something they cannot physically retreat from. Do you disagree? Please answer my question.
I disagree because I think it's wrong to kill children or intentionally to cause the death of a child. I don't believe anyone has a duty to do anything they aren't capable of doing.
Thank you for your honest answers. I am curious as there are instances besides pregnancy that would require the justified homicide of a child or otherwise mentally innocent (legally unfit) person. and 2) What about pregnancies where the mother's life is in serious danger. (obviously for me there is an obvious answer that there is no pregnancy that is less dangerous than not being pregnant but I'm wondering what you think.) Care to elaborate? The reason I say this is that creating a special case where the laws of bodily rights and self defense are different just because of fetuses to me is a violation of the 14th amendment EPC. It's also (without due process and just compensation from the government) a violation of the 4th, 5th and 13th amendments.

The most obvious flaw in the bodily autonomy argument is the definition of bodily autonomy. “I can do what I like with my body.” Exactly! As such a baby which is not your DNA is not your body therefore you cannot harm someone else’s body as they also have the right to bodily autonomy.
Separate DNA doesn't define the laws of self-defense? Does anyone have a de facto squatters right to anyone elses body merely because they managed to touch it in a certain way?
Self-defense requires an attack or harm on your person. 1. A baby isn’t harming you (you chose to put it there via your own actions) 2. A baby isn’t a squatter because it is defenseless and cannot defend itself via word or deed. 3. You cannot kill a squatter just as you cannot kill a baby. My point was DNA equals a separation of beings. Would you like to use another example or will you stick with false equivalence?
All pregnancy harms the woman. To say it doesn't literally denies reality. Did you not know that? https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3025805/ http://www.heartlanddoulas.com/5-things-you-didnt-know-about-your-placenta/ A zygote burrows on it's own into the lining of a uterus or else there isn't a pregnancy. There is literally nothing a woman can do to force that action to occur, sex is not a direct "forcing" of that action, its only a different activity that carries that risk, just like if I walk down a street I'm more at risk of running into another person. 80% of zygotes fail to implant. Do you wish to recategorize sex as some kind of reckless endangerment? That's not legally accurate at all. Consciousness or intent of the person or thing putting your body at non-consensual risk doesn't matter. If that were the case then it would be illegal to defend from a mosquito. You cannot kill a squatter to your property but peoples bodies are not and never will be property. That's the point. No person, even a fetus, has a squatters right to someone elses body. No matter what their consciousness or intent. My argument is consistent. Please demonstrate how risks of legal activities equal consent for the government to remove your personal human rights.
(On mobile and can’t quote you but I’ll do my best) A baby cannot Harm you IMO as you made the conscious decision to place a penis into the vagina without care. Condoms are $0.30. Birth control pills are covered by most insurance. There’s dental dams that can be used in a pinch. You can also pull the penis out of the vagina prior to ejaculation. Etc. there are at least 50 proven ways to prevent insemination. It’s not the baby’s job to not implant, it’s not it’s job to give up and die. It’s your job to prevent it’s creation should you choose to not have a child. Human rights supersede animal life so the mosquito is another example of false equivalence. Force must be met with equal force under the law “Squatting or leeching (as defined as the draining of personal resources)” does not constitute death and even if it did under the law yet would be determined by judge or peers. “You can’t kill a baby just as you cannot kill a squatter” you replied “people’s bodies are not and never will be property” Fine. Then why suggest squatter to begin with. I’m simply following your own reasoning here. “Demonstrate how risks of legal activities allow he government to deprive you of human rights.” Argument Ad Nauseam: Your human rights are equivalent to the child’s human rights. You do not get to kill another human simply by right of wishing it so.
What about a penis in a vagina equals consent to be ejaculated in which equals consent for an egg to be fertilized which equals consent for the fertilized egg to travel up the uterus which equals consent for the zygote to burrow into the lining of the uterus which equals consent to be pregnant and to give birth (how), have a miscarriage or whatever? You seem to think risks of legal activities equal legal consent for your human rights to be denied based in probably outcomes only you personally approve of. You wouldnt' say that in any other circumstance. You are just focused on granting fetuses special rights that no other person has. I.e. my consenting to be outside doesnt mean I consent to be struck by a car. Or My consent to go to a bar doesnt equal my consent to be raped. Or My consent to walk on the sidewalk doesn't equal consent for you to grab my butt, just because there was a larger risk of that happening to me if I am around strangers. Zygotes burrow ON THEIR OWN into the lining of  the uterus. That is an independent action they take as separate human beings that women either consent to let occur or do not. You seem to think 1) that only certain types of "at fault" sex should be punished with forced birth. Since when does anyone legally abiding persons have to prove the guilt of someone else before they have equal rights to their own body Do you wish to re categorize sex as an illegal breach of tort for which if you engage in it you are de facto the property of the government? 2) You seem to mistakenly think as well, that the only abortions are of unwanted babies. 3) and lastly you seem to mistakenly think that a large number of abortions come from unprotected sex. Most women report having an abortion due to some form of bc failure. Condoms have an 18% failure rate for example. (see the CDC stats here: https://www.cdc.gov/reproductivehealth/unintendedpregnancy/pdf/contraceptive_methods_508.pdf) Actually I kind of assume that you still wouldn't approve of abortion for women on BC anyway. It is the fetuses job actually. It implants on its own or else there isn't a pregnancy. Nothing can force implantation to happen. 70% of fertilized zygotes fail to implant, even without BC. https://rationalwiki.org/wiki/Spontaneous_abortion_in_humans No. No person, animal or thing has de facto superior rights to another persons' body. That's called a violation of the 14th amendment. I don't think you understand what you are talking about, just repeating something you heard. What law are you referring to? In all self defense cases, no one has a duty to retreat from someone or something they cannot physically retreat from. It doesn't matter if its a person, animal or thing, if I cannot retreat from it, and I have no ability to use any other means to my self-defense, lethal force is always legal. You still fail to understand that no one has a squatters right to another persons body. Because people's bodies are not the property of others, even fetuses don't get to occupy women's bodies without continuous consent, even the government on behalf of fetuses cannot occupy women's bodies without continuous consent. Because you saying that a fetus has a natural right to own and occupy a women's body until it's "done" with it just because it managed to implant (touch) her uterus in a certain way, IS granting a fetus a kind of "squatter's right" to a woman's body. It's not false equivalence. That's what that is. Lol, no it isn't. You have a moral responsibility to provide all classes of people equal rights under the law or at least argue why your pro-life views do not violate these universal rights. Why do you believe fetuses have a superior right to use, occupy and put at risk womens' bodies that no other person has, merely because they showed up there? Yeah that's a straw man and absolutely not. You have to prove you have no other means of retreat and that you are being put to immediate risk and harm against your will. Please tell me why you believe pregnancy is not what it is?
I don’t like to think of it as “arguing”. Any negative term, in fact. The best way to go about it is being open-minded and respectful of the other person. Don’t go into it looking to force them into your view, look at it as just showing things from your point of view. Leave it on the table, put yourself in their position. Some people won’t listen, it happens. As soon as you start coming down on the other person, they’ll come right back down on you and nothing good will come of it. Be gallant and as understanding as you can.
I hate to say it but I felt I needed to subscribe just so I can reveal what this person meant by "debate", this "man" came to the pro-choice forum literally trolling from the get go, calling people degenerate heathens, heretics, called me a unrepentant arrogant reprobate, cretin, murderer, called me a Nazi, a disgrace to women, worse than ISIS, said women shouldn't vote, I need to go back to the kitchen, called me and my boyfriend faggots, called me hyper-sexual, said my tiny woman brain couldn't handle it, that I'm mentally unwell and  I must be ugly af. Source: https://www.reddit.com/r/prochoice/comments/8c5xt9/a_christian_argument_for_abortion/ See for yourself. He literally started out name calling. Notice how he is re-writing the narrative as if we came out against him with condescension. Get your shit together u/Rtgh3 You're your own cancer. PS Everyone, when asked 3 times for the definition of murder in his own words he refused to answer, resorting again to name calling and trolling. There was no debate. This was just a rage tantrum from a rabid individual. Do you guys think he's a good example for your cause? Should women not be allowed to vote because our tiny brains can't handle it? Should we stay barefoot, ignorant and pregnant in the kitchen where we belong? Is that really the pro-life view?
Goodness >.> I can confidently say that there are radicals on both sides of this debate that cannot be helped. I’m sorry this guy treated you that way. Thanks for your respectful responses by the way, it’s appreciated to see an open minded individual and have someone who is interested in talking without resorting to that sort of behavior.  There’s far too much hate and ignorance between our two sides as it is.
Thank you. I don't appreciate bullies and trolls. I've never been called a disgrace to women before by anyone online. And I've been called all kinds of things. Everyone has their own side to a story ofc and I'm not perfect, so I try to be as honest as possible because how else can you have mutual respect and bring people over to your side?
I have no patience for those sorts either. And honesty is the best policy as they say :) Mutual respect is always a good foundation to build a discussion on, I’m a firm believer of that.  It won’t work out 100% of the time, but it leaves the right doors open and people are much more likely to engage with you if you’re standing on the same level.  Especially in this kind of moral question, that’s absolutely critical.
Holy shit! Some people's children.
Here is the general argument she is a proponent of: http://spot.colorado.edu/~heathwoo/Phil160,Fall02/thomson.htm
You just focus on not being such a jackass, OP. Leave the adult conversation to adults until you've grown up. Edit: This sounded snarky, but I mean it with complete sincerity.

If by "/u/BestGarbagePerson is a literal Nazi. I'm not even exaggerating" you mean "I'm an obnoxious child whose parents should not let me on the computer," I agree with you 100%. That does sound like it's what you mean.

Yeah, I doubt you're sincere about anything you say. Are you pro-choice yourself? I ask because anyone who understands "I wouldn't kill Hitler because that would mean the world as I know it would not exist" to mean "I'm a literal Nazi" is probably too stupid to be literate. Edit: I'll add, on the off-chance that you're really the sort of person you claim to be (which, yikes) being hard on someone does not necessitate being an idiot. You'd be a lot more successful at being hard on "these people" if you didn't embarrass yourself at the same time.

It happened.

You are not the pro-life movement, thank God. Get over yourself. It is not my job nor is it within my power to "rectify" the situation. I didn't make an ass of myself.




Thank you u/Badicus.
I had a feeling something was up when I saw the word "cretin," to be honest.
You can't reason with them, they are brainwashed and blinded by partisan rage. What you do is educate the people in the middle, which are the vast majority, and of course the youth about the value of the human life.
It's really not worth the trouble debating with people like that.  They're psychopathic and will do whatever benefits them regardless of how it hurts anyone else.  This is sadly the case with many people today.  The only people worth your time to convince are our lawmakers, and you shouldn't have to convince them because you should be electing ones that support pro-life policies to begin with.

Nothing about her suggests she's any sort of pro-life leader or activist, but I am glad that she made a good decision despite those calling for her to sacrifice her child on the altar of their expectations for her career.
Agreed. This is useful for the third-party commentary, I think.
I don't want to give Slate a hit, especially with an article that uses "Anti-Abortion" in the headline. What's a quick summary?
https://donotlink.it/RjMo
Useful for giving a round-up of recent press.
Sometimes when a terrible public transport accident had occured they bring up that an unborn child was killed.
Depends on the jurisdiction.  Most states have a fetal homicide law, but a few don't. http://www.ncsl.org/research/health/fetal-homicide-state-laws.aspx
Unless the legal jurisdiction has a law specifically dealing with such a situation they wouldn’t be charged.
It makes no sense for the attacker to be charged with murder in that case
Why?
Because he didn't commit murder? Assault and causing bodily harm is the correct charge. Even the Bible doesn't treat causing miscarriage the same as murder (in case you're Christian)
Would that be from the Old Testament? Much of what Christians follow in the New Testament generally say that “Christians do not have to abide by the Jewish laws” (save for the Ten Commandments of Moses) and instead take the advise from the Gospel, Paul’s letters, and the Epistles. e.g. Christian men do not have to be circumcised (in fact most aren’t outside the US), compared to Jewish law requiring it for all boys. So in short, over time our understanding and practice of God and His Son’s commandment to “love thy neighbor as thyself” has changed, sometimes for the better. And from that, application of Scripture to the current times must adapt. And that is why Christians today will condemn slavery, abortion, corruption, abuse of women and children, etc. and not worry too about certain passages from the Pentateuch.
http://biblehub.com/kjv/exodus/21-22.htm https://www.biblestudytools.com/exodus/21-22-compare.html "And if men strive together, and hurt a woman with child, so that her fruit depart, and yet no harm follow; he shall be surely fined, according as the woman's husband shall lay upon him; and he shall pay as the judges determine." Later it's mentioned that if the woman dies, the punishment is much more than a fine. Jesus never said anything about abortion. So the Bible doesn't support anti abortion sentiments. Edit: also http://www.christianbiblereference.org/faq_abortion.htm. Your views on abortion are not supported by the Bible. You can still have them and call yourself Christian but it doesn't mean that abortion is anti Christian in any way.
In Colorado a few years ago, a 7-month pregnant woman had her baby cut out of her by a psycho from Craigslist, killing the baby. The woman was charged with a ton of stuff, but not murder. https://www.cnn.com/2016/02/23/us/unborn-baby-cut-from-womb-verdict-colorado/index.html "Under Colorado law, essentially, there's no way murder charges can be brought if it's not established that the fetus lived as a child outside the body of the mother for some period of time."
That would depend on the jurisdiction, though the age of the woman wouldn't be taken into account.

"Small Bump" by Ed Sheeran is pretty pro-life (putting aside the line "in four months you're brought to life"...)
I don't really know of any songs but I'm a Doctor Who fan and there is an episode called "kill the moon" where it definitely feels like there was meant to be a prolife message; however in my opinion I think the episode falls apart a bit because I think it would have been morally acceptable to kill the creature in the episode, however at least the writer tried. However I think the epilogue is very good; https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rk58yAmBJaM  I interperted this scene to be a metaphore of how the boyfriends of the pregnant woman are unsupportive of her having the child and then they shift all the responsibility on the woman and do this under the guise of "letting the woman deceide" There are also 2 other episodes called "new earth" and "The rebel flesh/The almost people" where the villians use the kind of language that sounds an awful lot like the language used by abortion advocates; saying things like "they're not real people they're just flesh, nothing more" and "My factory, my choice" https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8KrmIZhOEZ0 I also heard the new movie "a quiet place" has a prolife message although i can't confirm this, i havent seen it. i really hate "a handmaids tale" but i realised a movie i saw ages ago is kind of the anti-handmaids tale. it's called "children of men" also a movie called "the giver"
Coming from the other angle, I’ve found a number of songs about abortion— bittersweet at best, totally heartbreaking at worst. Brick - Ben Folds Five Slide - Goo Goo Dolls (fixed) Lime Tree - Bright Eyes City Song - Emmy the Great And of course The Freshmen - The Verve Pipe
I think Slide is by the Goo Goo Dolls, but yeah, I like that song regardless.
Whoops, you’re right haha. Fixed!
Happy Birthday - Flipsyde
Scorn not his simplicity - Luke Kelly About his child with down syndrome
A girl in my class did a cover of this in order to raise money for a down syndrome charity, which i thought was great. But she is very pro-abortion which made me extremely annoyed.
“Rock-a-Bye” by Clean Bandit with Anna Marie always sounds totally pro-life to me! Great song


Because the bodily autonomy argument requires you to accept torture and killing at the whim of the mother if you're going to use it.  If they actually step back and admit that it is torture and it shouldn't happen and that we should attempt to prevent it, their argument falls apart like a wet paper bag. Instead they shrug and say, "that's too bad."
Because they don't care. Also Abortion groups provide a huge chunk of their election spending.
It's not torture because the fetus is incapable of pain.

Uh she came out as a White Nationalist a while ago and NWF immediately fired her. Now almost no one follows her. But of course the real story would be too inconvenient for HuffPo.
Are you sure? She doesn't seem to embrace that label:
White Nationalism: She literally ascribes to all these beliefs. She's a white nationalist.
Horrifying.
White Nationalism gets defined in other ways, typically tantamount to outright nazism. But excluding the last sentence, which is vague and apparently not part of the definition - which of those things are terrible? The idea that there's a 'white race'? Developing a white national identity? Being attached to the concept of a white nation? Seeking its survival? Maintaining their cultures? Maintaining their majority status in historically white nations? Also, she likewise believes that non-whites should be welcome to all of the same in their nations. Mostly, though, I'm curious that if her views make her persona non grata among pro-lifers, at least in your eyes. Edit: I'll add, since she believes the same is acceptable for other races and nations, she's also a black nationalist, an asian nationalist, a hispanic nationalist, etc.
Ok, I'm just using the real definition so... I think a conversation about how good or bad these views are is a separate one entirely from "does Hatten hold these views." Because the answer to that is what you just challenged, and she does hold those views. For me personally? Yes, absolutely. I'm an individual and I can't stand a good portion of the pro-life movement. However I also personally don't hold a lot of power in the movement. What power I do hold, in admin positions for example, I try to be generally more neutral when it comes to working solely on pro-life things together (i.e. single-issue organizations working together).
I don't think Wikipedia's going to settle that one. You're using Wikipedia's definition, let's agree on that much. I'm not going to push the topic with you, since you reasonably don't want to discuss it. Thanks for the input.
Really, you're gonna pull that crap? Yes, I was using Wikipedia's definition, which correlates with other dictionary definitions, and certainly with ethnonationalistm (and here). If you have another valid definition, feel free to cite. But trying to undermine the definition I posted then running away seems pretty pathetic.
Yes, I'm going to pull that crap. Especially since you just cited definitions in conflict with each other - one of which links white nationalism to racial supremacy and 'enforced racial segregation' (oops, I guess she's not a white nationalist anymore). And, since she also expressly supports the exact same rights and vision for other people over other races, it equally makes her a black nationalist, an asian nationalist, and more. You just undermined yourself, but couldn't see it, because the only correlation you saw was 'It's a negative thing' and that was enough for you. I said it was Wikipedia's definition and left it at that, thinking it wasn't a big deal. Then I decided not to even mention your sudden unwillingness to even address what was bad about the definition you just gave, kindly thanked you for your input, and bowed out. Which wasn't good enough for you, so you valiantly... self-owned, then beat your chest. So what, I can come in and repeat my questions, and you can once again dodge them - except this time I'll highlight your fear and point it out for what it is? Instead of us having a polite, brief exchange, you get to look like an idiot. Well done.
Did she say somewhere she doesn't support segregation? She wants to keep whites and *people of color separate, both nationally and in reproduction. But you're right, I'm sure she's all for integration! Not really how it works. She's white, and her concerns are for white people. She doesn't deny the same concerns for other people of other races -- that doesn't make her a "every other race" nationalist. That would be like saying if my major concern is for women as a feminist -- constantly demanding equality and better treatment of women day in and out -- but not denying that men could have the same concern for their sex somehow makes me a MRA. Sorry, not how that works. So far you're the only one harping on the negativity aspect of it. My suspicion is you hold some of these views, so you're immediately defensive of it, and want to label the term as some meaningless emotional slur when in reality it does have a meaning, good or bad, and it does apply to Hatten. Words have definitions, as inconvenient as that may be to you. You brought up that it was Wikipedia to undermine it, anyone can see that. Whether the definition is good or bad is, again, a separate conversation to the initial one of whether she even qualifies. It seems you want to base whether she qualifies on the connotation of the word instead of the definition. Again, not how it works.
She rejected supremacy, and she had little to say about 'segregation' except to say she likes to live in a majority white neighborhood, and doesn't want to become a minority in a traditionally white nation. You supplied the definitions to undo your own argument. Bravo. And you won't answer just which parts of the definition you reject, because you know the followup there. Yeah, you're not the Dungeon Master of the Ethnonationalist Game. Though I do love the implied 'she's white therefore she can't care about non-whites'. Something tells me you're drinking heavily from the well she criticizes, and that's your problem here. Sayeth Hatten: No people should be excited to become a minority in their homeland. It is contrary to human nature. I wouldn’t expect it of any race and I don’t think it should be expected of whites She doesn't merely 'not deny'. She outright addresses their rights and supports them. By a straightforward look at your supplied wikipedia definition, she IS an asian nationalist, among other things. I run r/AltRightChristian, and I'm up front about my views when the topic is up. They don't come up often in this sub because I stick to the sub topic. This is a case of them crossing starkly. I questioned calling her a 'white nationalist' when she expressly denies that label. You followed up with a Wikipedia definition. I said - remember, this is my big offense here - that that means, at best, she may fit the Wikipedia definition. And I left it at that. This set you off, led to you immediately providing multiple definitions some of which conflicted with each other, thus proving my point, and apparently didn't notice that. Hell, you also apparently didn't even read the article, since you missed her expressly defending the rights of other races to look after the their customs and ethnic makeup in nations. Seriously, you run r/prolife. Don't act like these labels are mere matters of dictionary stuff, when the average intelligent pro-lifer defines themselves as 'pro-life' and resists 'anti-choice', despite define:anti-choice pulling an immediate dictionary result that 'fits'. And again - I was content to just leave it that. Why you decided mix it up on this front, in this way, is beyond me.

Much higher proportions of non-whites are pro-life than whites. But again, let's not let facts get in the way of dissing pro-lifers.
Literally what? The status quo is abortion on demand, so I don't know what the fuck they're talking about.
a leader? Ive been prolifing all over the Internet for like 6 years and never heard of this person
It's HuffPo, so they're doing their thing. But they've got Abby Johnson and others commenting on her, so she's apparently walking in some interesting circles.
So I’m not in the inner circle, but I do orbit it. I usually get lunch or drinks with these people. Everyone knows everyone. She was known when she was in NWF, but NWF does their own thing (which is good.) so she was never even remotely considered a leader. She was there but that’s about it. The equivalent would be saying that a White House a staffer is some sort of leader to the GOP.
Literally who?
Somewhat beside the point but LAN wasn't behind the PP sting videos, CMP was. They should correct.
You think they care about facts...?
Haha. Good point.
Sucks if it's true but, doesn't make her wrong on the abortion issue so. I'm sure there are tons of prochoicers who are affiliated with some shitty beliefs too. Not justifying it, just saying that's it's kind of irrelevant to whether abortion is right or wrong.
Frankly, I don't like giving HuffPo much attention. But since they're apparently breaking this story, I think r/prolife would find it interesting. Their slant is obvious and odious, and the guilt-by-association trick is palpable here. What I'm curious to see is whether or not the pro-life movement can stand this. After all, pro-lifers hit the big tent hard: you've got atheists, Christians, Jews, muslims, LGBT, etc who are respected pro-life figures. There's at least some leftists, though I think a lot of fakery comes through there too. And the standard attitude seems to be: we can disagree on a lot, but we focus on what we agree on. I wonder if that can stay in play here too. I think there'll be a fight, but I don't think that fight will be terribly principled. I support the woman here, and it shouldn't come as a surprise I'm sympathetic to her basic positions. We'll see what others think, eh?
Say that there is a person in a hospital suffering from kidney failure.  You are the only person with a matching kidney to give them in a transplant, saving their life.  Doctors cannot strap you to a table and forcefully remove your kidney to save that person's life, because it violates your bodily autonomy.  So, bodily autonomy is more important than life.This is a widely used pro-choice argument, and I've always felt difficulty responding properly to it.  How do you refute that?
Abortion and failing to procure a kidney for a surgical intervention are not similar at all. One is letting a natural impending death happen, the other is deliberately and directly killing a person. Also, it kind of matters how you fit into the situation. Did you steal their kidney? Are you the reason they need a kidney transplant? If you cause someone to need a kidney transplant, you'll probably be held to reimbursing their costs. Were you sharing the kidney for 6 weeks and then decide to take it away?  People act like babies are cottonwood seeds that just float into your house in the summer completely out of no where with nothing to do with you. But really, its more like conjoined twins. Most conjoined twins are sharing major organs that are on "the bigger one's" side of the body. Many times the "smaller" twin is just a head and neck. Nobody is obligated to provide a body and organs to the smaller one so that they can be separated. But the one who they currently share organs with can't just be like "Hey kyle nothing personal but these organs are technically in my body and I'm tired of you. RIP" And THAT'S a permanent condition. Donating a kidney is also permanent. Pregnancy, which lasts less than a year, pales in comparison. So dumb.
They act like the baby crawled out of the depths of earths darkest corners into their bellies and they're stealing their right to be independent. What it is is a sprint away from responsibility and pretty much sums up how our society today loves pointing fingers.
I've actually heard an argument from abortion like that. That your body is like your house, and a baby is like an unwanted plant growing in the middle of your living room, the seed of which came in through the window. I can't remember where I heard it from, but it's as absurd now as it was then haha.
It's from Judith Jarvis Thomson's A Defense of Abortion.  It comes after the violinist argument.
Ah that's it, thank you.
People treat pregnancy like every woman who gets pregnant is the Virgin Mary.  It's not an isolated incident, and something had to happen for the baby to get conceived.
Right. And even if it was a rape, its entirely temporary unlike permanently being down a kidney.
The argument brought up in this thread is similar to Thomson's "Violinist argument," which posits that if you wake up hooked up to a violinist who needs your blood for nine months to survive, you shouldn't be legally obligated to cooperate. There are a number of large flaws in relating this argument to abortion; here's a very thorough response illustrating ten or so different solid points one can answer it with: http://www.lifenews.com/2014/03/07/i-am-afraid-of-this-indisputable-pro-abortion-argument/
Other people may have better arguments, but my kidney doesn't have it's own heart, brain, and DNA, and on its own it cannot feel pain. The argument circles back to whether or not a fetus is a living being. If it is, then the kidney argument is only a strawman
I think the kidney is supposed to be analogous to the uterus, not the fetus.
Still a bit of a strawman. If they're the reason that person needs a kidney, then yes, they should be obligated to donate theirs. If you create a fetus, then it has a right to use your uterus.
I'm going to roughly copy and paste on of my previous comments because I've responded to this type of argument before. The kidney analogy is not a good comparison to pregnancy. The key difference is that allowing someone to die and directly killing them are two very different things. You can deny someone your organs, but you can't go out of your way to kill them. Abortion falls under the latter category because a fetus is perfectly healthy and abortion is a procedure that actively kills it; more comparable to stabbing a random person in the street to death. Bottom line is that allowing someone to die from some cause other than yourself (such as kidney failure) is legal, whereas directly killing them yourself (such as stabbing or drowning) is illegal. I don't believe that it should be any different in the case of abortion. 2) I would also like to point out that "right to life" can be a confusing and misleading phrase. I can't speak for other pro-lifers, but when I say "right to life", I'm not saying that everyone has a right to have their life preserved no matter what. By that logic, all of us should be legally obligated to donate our organs, bone marrow, blood and even money in order to save other people as the kidney analogy suggests. Of course I don't support this at all. Instead what I mean by "right to life" is that everyone has a right to not be killed. This is why I am in favour of keeping it illegal to commit homicide regardless of the victim's age, race, gender and so on. Unborn human beings should also have the right to not be killed and therefore, abortion should be illegal.
So "right to life" really is "right to not be killed?" What about child neglect?  That's a case where inaction leads to death, and that's a crime.
Exactly why the distinction doesn't mean much imo.
Manslaughter/homicidal negligence/wreckless endangerment is a crime, as it should be, you are correct. Heroic measures (donating body parts) are not required in order to avoid charges of homicidal negligence. And merely existing in a pregnant state is not a heroic measure.
Makes perfect sense.  I'm just trying to think like someone making the argument, so that I can refute them when I need to.
I'm pretty sure that child neglect is illegal because you are the legal guardian of that child and therefore have an obligation to take care of them. So for example, if I know that my neighbors across the street are struggling to feed their kids, I'm not legally required to help feed them. On the other hand, I am required to feed my own children and make sure they don't die. Basically, legal guardianship is you agreeing to be responsible for your kid's well-being. If you don't want be responsible for them anymore, you can give them up for adoption. Therefore, child neglect is not excusable and is a special situation where you'll be held responsible for allowing someone to die even though it's usually legally acceptable (such as in the case of not donating your kidneys).
Another way to look at it is to say, "You are not REQUIRED to donate your kidney.  No one can force you.  We would hope, however, that some day our society will progress to a state where we will WILLINGLY give of ourselves to save the life of another person.  We can also ask ourselves, "What would we do if the person needing the kidney was our own mother or our newborn child?  Would we be able to live with ourselves if we valued our bodily autonomy over the life of our own flesh and blood? "
I don't think it being their own flesh and blood matters to them...
I don't think the pro life position is advanced by vilifying pro choice people.  Pro life people are not all religious fanatics and pro choice people are not all heartless monsters. We are all just people.
All I'm saying is that it's not a factor to the majority of people.
What are you basing that judgement on?  Maybe you should add "I know" to that sentence. The vast majority of people I KNOW would, without a doubt, sacrifice themselves for his or her family.  I am not saying EVERYONE in the world or even a majority would but there are people on both sides of this question that value family ties.
"The fetus isn't a human person."
Depends on what your definition of a person is.  It is undeniably human though.  If two members of the same species have offspring, that offspring is also a member of that species. It is a human being.  Just a very young human being.
That's what I mean, though.  If they're freely choosing to kill their own kin, it doesn't matter a lot to them.  That's not judging them for anything, it's just an observation.
You are making a lot of assumptions.  Some pro choice people were raised by pro choice parents and have never considered any other opinion.  You don't know if they are "freely choosing" to kill their own kin.  For at least some of them, they may be pressured into it by parents or partners.  If they have been told their whole lives that the unborn are "Just a clump of cells" and the circumstances of her giving birth would be incredibly difficult then they don't view it as "killing their own kin."  And assuming that you know how all of them think is kind of the definition of judging.  Just like them thinking every pro life person is a religious nut who wants to control their sexuality is them judging pro life people.
I know some people don't know any different. I know some people are forced into it. I'm talking about people that freely choose to end someone else's life, despite knowing that it's their offspring.  They're the people I'm referring to.

See, this is somewhat reasonable. I'm willing to concede that anti abortion people who have donated a kidney are actually pro life. Those who haven't can make no claim to the label, as the chance to save a life (technically dozens of lives because altruistic donation can set off a donation chain) is right there and they're turning it down because it's too inconvenient.
I think in that case it comes down to taking action. If they don’t take action the person dies. However, abortion is an action. In other words, if you don’t take action (have an abortion)then the baby will live.
You didn't cause the need of the person whose kidney failed.  The mother (and father, but he can't help at this stage) DID CAUSE , through consensual intercourse, the need of the child for the mother's body.  As she caused the need, she should be required to fulfill it. This is also why abortion was permitted in cases of rape.  They mother did nothing to produce the need in the child, she was forced, and so shouldn't be required to fulfil their need. Gets down to personal responsibility for your actions.
What if I'm even arguing for no abortion after rape?  How would I refute that counter?
Most prolife folks would probably compromise and permit abortions for rape cases if we could outlaw the rest, since they're such a tiny percent of abortions.
I'm Catholic, so that's something I can't really do.  No compromise is the only thing that's acceptable for me.
Then can't you just say that God says so?
Pro-life debate needs to be secular based.   That won't change minds.
I guess not, I just mean that if your reasoning is that you're Catholic and therefore believe in "the word of God" as a moral basis, then shouldn't you just be honest about your reasoning? Because to be fair, your reason for believing abortion is wrong IS that God said so, so then why would you lie and say that it's based on some other argument?
I'm not justifying my beliefs, I'm trying to sway someone else using information they'd be swayed by.
Ok, it just sounds like you're misrepresenting your beliefs. Why not just try to convert them?
I would if I could, but abortion can be a secular issue.  People of every religion, even those without, can be pro-life.  There's a whole lot more to conversion.

That's falling into the logical fallacy of argument to moderation.  When your "compromise" means an innocent person dies who is of no real threat to the life of the mother, that's not a compromise at all. I understand the higher level of pain of a rape situation, but there can be no overcoming the fact that the child is completely innocent of the act that brought them into the world, but they are here nonetheless and they will never have another chance to live again in the entire timespan of this universe.
Say the the infant isn't the one the raped the woman, and that killing them won't really help the woman heal. I would also point out that abortion because of rape, incest, or deformity of the fetus is extremely rare, to the point of hardly being worth worrying about.  If we can just outlaw abortion for the sake of convenience it would be a major win.
I strongly disagree with the "natural vs unnatural" arguments used to oppose the argument you presented. Whether something is natural or not is fairly arbitrary but, more importantly, irrelevant to morality. Cancer is natural. Tsunamis are natural. Death is natural. Rather, I think the more important element is in responsibility. In your situation, the person who is demanded to give of their kidney did not cause the person's state of need. Nor did they know, in causing the state of need, that they'd be literally the only person who could sustain that needy person's life. The responsibility and knowledge elements are morally relevant. Not the naturalness.
What are your thoughts on the ordinary vs. extraordinary distinction made in this article? It seems related to naturalness but still relevant to morality.
He says: From what I can see he is using the term "ordinary" to mean "more natural." It has no relevance to morality in my opinion. Why? Because just saying "well using your uterus to nurture a fetus is not 'extraordinary' because it's more natural" totally ignores the fact that in many situations, regardless of how "natural" this may be labeled as, all pregnancies are problematic for the woman and some can cause serious health problems. Pregnancy causes a myriad of issues for any mother. But it's "natural." Blood donation is, the vast majority of the time, extremely straightforward and carries little to no risk. It's far safer than pregnancy. Yes it's "unnatural." According to Horn, pregnancy is ordinary while blood donation is extraordinary because he's defining these based on how natural they are. I think that really ignores the relevant moral details, such as clinical safety/risk of the process being discussed. In comparison to an "unnatural" blood donation, pregnancy is actually quite extraordinary. So no, I still see no reason to try and tie naturalness to morality. Our bodies having evolved to do x y z doesn't mean they don't carry a lot of risk, and our bodies not having evolved to do a b c doesn't mean those things aren't very easy yet helpful to others.
I used this argument with a pro-choicer once. I gave an example of a mother deliberately poisoning her own son to destroy his kidneys knowing that she's the only suitable match for him. When I asked them whether or not the mother should be legally obligated to donate her kidney, the person replied that although they though it would be a terrible thing to do, the mother should still not be forced to give up her kidney. What would you say in response to this?
That I strongly disagree and I'm sure lots of reasonable people would too.
Well yes, I disagree too. But you have to provide some sort of argument or reason as to why it should be legally obligated of the mother. You can't expect a pro-choicer to change their mind on the issue because "I and other people say so".
I'm not asking someone to change their mind because "I say so." I think you're mistaking an argument about facts with an argument about moral opinions. All laws are us imposing our moral opinions on others. They most we can demand of others is (1) fact-based and (2) consistent with other stances we hold. That's what I do. But beyond that it is a subjective opinion. I can't force a pro-choicer to agree with me on that. I can only give analogous situations that may lead them intuitively to the same moral stance. If it doesn't, there really isn't anything I can do about it, unless the discussion moves towards misunderstood facts which I can correct. I think that's one thing neither pro-choicers or pro-lifers seem to understand. While 99% of the abortion debate is about basic facts that people don't seem to understand (i.e. what constitutes a living human being), the crux of the argument is still going to be one opinion vs another.
I'm not really sure about that. If we're just talking about whether or not something is moral, then I would agree with you. But in the case of what should be illegal vs legal, then everything can be boiled down to facts and logic, rather than opinions. For example, killing your spouse to collect their life insurance money is illegal not just because it's immoral, but mainly because it makes our society safer to live in. We all need to mutually agree that killing people is unacceptable in order to live in a safe and well functioning society.
I think you can use facts to inform your opinions, but no, every law is a moral declaration; it's us saying "we think this is BAD enough to make illegal." That's a value-statement, not a fact. Which is something you find valuable that another person might not. As I said above, you can use facts to inform the view, but ultimately laws are about morals being imposed on others. They're opinions about what is right or wrong. And people can disagree with those opinions.
Valuable is different from moral. I don't think it's moral to live in a safe functioning society, I think it's logically and rationally useful. It's scientifically proven that humans are social animals for this exact reason, and therefore the statement "it should be illegal to kill people because it is more beneficial for us" is a factual one rather than an opinionated one.
You find it useful. Other people might not. What is useful to you is based on your values. That doesn't follow. Humans are social animals, yes -- that doesn't dictate the extent of any given person's sociability or desire to be social. What is beneficial for you might not be beneficial to another individual. That's their call, it's subjective. And certainly within the realm of pregnancy and abortion, cases can be made on either side as far as what is or isn't most beneficial to the person arguing. Ultimately it does boil down to preferences.
Not really. When I say useful, I'm referring to what benefits our species as a whole. If someone tries to deny that making it illegal to commit homicide is beneficial for our society, then they would be just denying basic facts. Of course not everything is so clear on what is and isn't beneficial for us, but nevertheless, I think that it would be wrong to say that it all boils down to difference in opinions.

Abortion can be argued against, all the way, using neutral ethics, AS LONG AS you're debating an intellectually consistent person who prefers a civil society. The only situation in which you can't demonstrate that abortion should be illegal is against extremely nihilistic people who would find nothing wrong with chaotic anarchy and murder everywhere all the time. Some of these people really believe it and are antisocial and truly don't care, some of them are just being scabs and saying whatever it takes to oppose you even when they know they don't mean it. That doesn't mean you don't have an argument, it doesn't mean that you're not 100% correct,  it just means they don't care that you're correct
That's a fair point. Although, when speaking to someone like that, something like this can possibly be argued: "That type of society wouldn't be beneficial to our species as a whole, so you may not mind living in a chaotic world, it is still impractical and illogical for the rest of us to allow that."
Action and inaction are different.
I’ve seen this type of argument before. First, it’s important to note that everyone can agree that the right to life and bodily autonomy are valuable. And, the kidney argument simply brings the debate back to asking what is the definition of life. The bodily autonomy argument ends when someone wants to violate the bodily autonomy of someone else. If a fetus is a living being, then the fetus has the right to life/the fetus has bodily autonomy. One doesn’t have the right to bodily autonomy in having an abortion, because, therefore you are violating the bodily autonomy of the fetus.

My God, what year is it? I love how no one thinks the past is repeating itself, until it does. We've had too long to cool down, we forgot what kind of world this leads to.
It doesn't seem to be even be true that she was for eugenics though. She suggested that physicians ought to decide whether to treat or not treat a patient based on their health status. I don't agree with her but I still think that her idea was a far cry from the let's kill the disabled that people make it out to be. Instead it seems more like she was for some type of euthanasia. I'll have to read more into it though to be sure.
I don't think it's the article as much as the other peoples comments. That's what disturbed me.
I think it's funny how people on reddit are so anti-fascism and anti-racism and fucking Hitler was a fan of eugenics and killing the disabled.
Hitler was popular at one point.  I believe we think too highly of ourselves sometimes when we believe that it would be unthinkable that no one could ever be duped into electing him that is alive today. We have the benefit of history to tell us to avoid loud fascist leaders with toothbrush moustaches that rant about the Jews.  The problem is that we have not really addressed some of the less obvious, but perhaps more fundamental issues that would allow someone like him or his party to be freely elected. Abortion is just one plant popping up out of the soil derived from a deeply buried root.  Until that root is dealt with, you're going to see it sprout what appear to be different plants, but they're really very similar at the core. Are pro-choicers fascists?  I would hazard to say that they are not.  But does some of the same thinking that made National Socialism palatable to Germans also apply to many pro-choice individuals?  I'd hazard to say that it does, particularly in the sense that they feel they can solve problems by killing them.
This is actually a really good point, even if it's pretty depressing. Even once abortion is finally banned, something similar will probably just pop up a few decades later.

Infanticide is evil.
Rhode Island has very strong Catholic roots. Democrats in the state have typically been less extreme on the issue than their colleagues in other states. Gov. Gina Raimondo (Democrat) will veto the bill and chances are with the new #Resistance wave a lot of those pro life Democrats are on their way out.
Chairman of the DNC already told them to get out. Nancy Pelosi seems to be the only high profile Dem to break from that.
The more they swing to the left the more people jump ship.
Not really. In Nevada Catherine Cortez Masto pretty much won with Trump = bad, Planned Parenthood = good.

This guy is all kinds of messed up. He honestly sounds like a psychopath.
I feel like he doesn't understand how memory works. Not having an episodic memory of an event doesn't mean it won't leave lasting psychological scars.
Agreed. Research into this area is only starting to scratch the surface of how the human mind works, develops etc. but even a quick Google search reveals: https://aifs.gov.au/cfca/publications/effects-child-abuse-and-neglect-adult-survivors https://www.nap.edu/read/2117/chapter/8#211 There is loads more on that page but that's just a handful of quotes. This guy is obviously clueless but what's more scary than being clueless is that most people just sort of naturally understand that abusing an infant = very very bad, mostly due to natural empathy, that's why I think there is something really off about this guy as he obviously lacks that trait.
I think your comment concedes too much. The wrongness of an action is intrinsic to the nature of the act itself, not merely upon whatever consequences might result from psychological trauma, etc. They sound like an implicit utilitarian.
I tend to argue from as close to a person's starting point as I can; pointing out a contradiction or factual error that if corrected would lead to the right conclusion is more likely to succeed than trying to change a whole worldview. You're right, though. Sexually molesting someone in a coma, for instance, is wrong even if nothing ever comes of it.
The person in question is not pro-choice, as it happens. https://www.reddit.com/r/prochoice/comments/8736xa/the_line_between_prolife_and_prochoice/dwavkfl/
Wow, not pro-choice but rather pro-abortion. That's bad.
As somebody who thinks it's very important that people are able to choose what to do with their bodies, I agree.
I mean, if abortion really is so much safer than childbirth, (and we assume, as pro-choicers do, that fetuses aren't people) I think doctors would have a medical duty to suggest (though not force) abortion to every pregnant woman, including those with wanted pregnancies.
“Suggest” is an odd word. How about... “offer”? Or include in the options?
Okay, "offer" then, to every pregnant woman, including, again, those who aren't currently considering abortion and whose pregnancies were wanted.
Our job is not to minimize risk of dying.  It's to help people reach their health goals.  When abortion clearly is not in line with somebody's goals ("we've been trying for three months and I'm so happy I'm pregnant!  I'm almost out of prenatal vitamins, can you refill them?"), I don't think it's necessary to bring it up. That said, I do which that there were better education about the risks of pregnancy. Where are you going with this?
Not really going anywhere with it, just making an observation. Considering that a lot of people are not aware of the risks of childbirth, it seems to me to make sense for people to inform women with wanted pregnancies of this and that abortion is an available option if she wants (again, in line with the pro-choice view, not my own). Not to mention women with unplanned pregnancies that aren't currently considering abortion.
I agree that it would make a lot of sense, and college-aged me would have agreed with your statements. Having been out there practicing now, the truth of the matter is that people generally know what they want.  When it's an unplanned but desired pregnancy I settle for a script something like... Me: How did you feel when you found out you were pregnant? Patient: Well, I was scared, but I knew I was going to continue it. Me: Alright, so it sounds like you thought about it already, but just to be clear, you're aware that you have the option of continuing the pregnancy with a goal of delivering at term, and then pursuing parenthood or adoption.  Then you have another option of ending the pregnancy with an abortion.  It sounds like you're choosing the first one, continuing the pregnancy. Patient: Yeah, I don't think I could have an abortion. Me: Okay!  Last question before we're in gear: do you have any questions for me about abortion or pregnancy? Patient: No. Me: Alright, let's talk about your prenatal care.
I agree with you that even if they were aware, most people probably wouldn't change their mind. But still, the prochoice movement tends to criticize the prolife movement for downplaying the risks of childbirth (and I'll openly say this criticism isn't without basis) but there's also no real push to tell pregnant women that aren't currently considering abortion about the risks of childbirth vs abortion.
LOL this gal thinks it's ok to kill sleeping people
She.
Doesn't matter, women can be psychopaths too.
I've had abortion discussions boil down to some variant of "Well, maybe infanticide ISN'T that bad!" surprisingly often. If you challenge someone to remain consistent with their views on abortion, this is often the end result.
Can confirm. They will also extend it to bums with no family/friends and memory issues from drug use. And they're not even being edgelords, often it's just "well, i guess it does follow, so i guess its not too bad then..." in a perfectly friendly conversation. It's mindblowing
One of the first things I settle before discussing abortion with someone is to try and find common ground on the premise that murder and specifically infanticide is morally wrong. If they don't agree to that, I drop the subject entirely. It's not worth arguing with someone who believes it's ok to kill children. Fortunately, people like this are very few and far between in my experience.
Same here, there were many times I heard that from abortion supporters as well but that’s what logically follows from their position. Sadly there are Western countries where this is already practiced, Look up The Groningen protocol in Netherlands. Here is an article about it with some very concerning statistics.
Yeah, can someone tell this guy "A Modest Proposal" was satire?
My pro-choice sister: "Well, it's not like that kid probably would have had a very good life anyway, so it's fine."
This pisses me off. Who are you to judge what someone else's quality of life would be. 9/10 that person would say they want to live.
Being alive has a higher quality of life than being dead.
Quality of life when dead is invariably "none" it's hard to refute that.

Many people do appreciate that they had the opportunity to be born. It is not impossible for someone to prefer to not have been born, and you now have the opportunity to make that known for yourself. But for the most part, people don't want to have not existed, and so it's worse to assert that they are better off without having the ability to have that actual choice.
Got any stats on that? I'd be interested to know how many children of coerced/forced births actually have any sympathy with your movement.
I have not seen any statistics on it.  It's mostly personal experience from people who I know who managed to survive attempts to convince their mother to have an abortion.  Needless to say, they were not at all pleased to find out that someone wanted them dead. But is it more common to prefer to not have been born?  No idea, although it is not a sentiment that I hear very much. Logically, there are going to be people who have shitty experiences from that situation and think it's all bad, and there are those who are who had a tough time of it, but managed to make something out of their lives and do quite well, despite the poor early start. Although I definitely do not recommend it, if you're having a shitty life, you always have the choice to take yourself out of it.  I don't think we have the right to make that decision for someone else, especially when there is insufficient data to determine their future.
Whether you want to die or not doesn't matter.  The baby cannot consent to being killed, and that means that the act of directly killing the child is murder.  Should I be allowed to kill someone who is suicidal because they want to die anyways, even if they never consent to it? And again, even a sucky life is a life.  Being murdered in the womb doesn't make life better.
I don't want to die - although now I've been born I don't get a choice in the matter! Thanks to people like you, I'm forced to experience death at some point, which I would have avoided had I been aborted. I want to have not been born, not prolapsed my mother's organs, and not made my parents miserable. The baby cannot consent to being born, either. Either way, something happens without its consent. In medicine, when that has to happen, parents and doctors make the decision about what is best for the child and family as a whole.
Wow, I'm so evil for believing that people shouldn't be murdered, right?  I'm like Hitler for thinking that everyone deserves a chance at life. They might think like you at some point.  But if they don't, what then?  How can you know what a child who wasn't aborted will think?
Username checks out...?
You still would have experienced death. Just earlier. And sounds like your parents would have been miserable anyway.
How do you experience something before you have a brain in which to experience it?
Even a worm has experiences. Your brain develops way before birth. And your nervous system is functioning even before that. I am sure there are many ways to die that involve pills that can block the types of feelings you are referring to so that's a pretty moot point anyway.
My mother went to the doctor because she knew she was pregnant with me, and was told to come back in two weeks because it was too early for a test to detect. No organs of any kind exist during the earliest weeks of pregnancy. Pain perception begins around 30 weeks. https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/201429 What pills are those? Because I've researched this extensively and every chemical suicide option involves pain, nausea, and a feeling of suffocating or drowning.
And how long ago was that? Detecting pregnancy is based on a hormone and modern technology allows for very early detection. You're mom wouldn't have even known she was pregnant before week 2-3 since that would be when she would have missed her period. What do you mean by earliest weeks? I mean, I'm not going to argue with you about prenatal development. You have access to the internet. It's all available to you. See here. Your study doesn't say that. It is a theoretical piece stating an opinion that it (pain perception) is unlikely before 24-30 weeks. However, since no one really ones how pain works they can not make a factual statement. Not really sure how that's relevant anyway? I don't think it is o.k. to kill people in a painless way so, moot point. I'm not going to help you with that. I think your life is valuable.

Sick!
Louis CK: "Like if murder was legal!? Or like... just a misdemeanor, like damn they had a camera there."
Here’s a better screenshot of that comment but from mobile. I wonder if deep down /u/banoffiemango truly believes that or is just biting the bullet to keep their pro-choice position logically consistent.
I'm inclined to to think it's the latter. Not many people are actually ok with killing babies.

Really? Only for the preborn child or can we just abort anyone at will?Why do you draw the line prenatally? I don't understand your point of view at all.
They draw the line prenatally because you can't hear the scream or see the grimacing of pain and therfore they never have to be bothered by it
I wonder, I think that they'd be fine with infanticide too. Because its done in a clinic, a sanitized killing behind closed doors. Apparently, when they cant see something it does not exist.
But of course
What would be the point of aborting someone after birth? Abortion is a very very positive action in moral terms because it reduces the risks of injury, pain and death caused by pregnancy. Every pregnant woman should be encouraged to at least consider it, as doctors have a moral obligation to recommend procedures that protect their patient's health. The vast majority of abortions take place before the onset of pain perception at around 30 weeks gestation. I strongly favour encouraging people to abort long before that point. Review of all research on fetal pain: https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/201429
I don't believe squirming away from needles and forceps at 14 weeks constitutes some totally neutral, undistressed and unconscious robotic reaction to stimuli which somehow can be defined differently from fear and pain, as some people try to imply, i think the "science" that says we know how to identify pain in others who can't express it, by using some algorithm and it requires XYZ, is a bit dubious. Regardless, you can't numb someone and then kill them either. Whether they feel the pain is neither here nor there to me Your argument about it reducing risk of injury only works if you don't consider a small living human being a real living human being. If it was really something that was being done to the mothers body, she would be the one being dismembered, see? The reason her body isn't the one being dismembered is because it's happening to someone elses body Dismembering a living body to death to reduce the risks and discomfort involved in a completely temporary and short-term physiological process is a ludicrous argument I have given natural birth with no drugs and my labia tore and it was painful but you know what? It took one day and it was all over. I would not kill someone to avoid one painful day.
Plants move in reaction to stimuli. Is that evidence that they feel pain? Frankly, I'd trust decades of scientific research over some dude on Reddit watching a video and having an emotional reaction. It's a real living human being that the mother has every right to defend herself against.
Some plants probably do feel pain in their own way. Science has shown that some plants can also learn. For example, i forget the plant that was used, but they dropped them a short distance onto a pillow repeatedly, and they stopped "bracing" themselves after they "learned" it wasn't going to damage them. Regardless, i don't care about plants feelings very much because they're not people. I'm sure it hurts lobsters very much when we boil them, or when we break chickens necks. That's not what makes it wrong. What makes abortion wrong to me is that it's a human being. And yeah sure the government allows the mother to kill it, she has that right, but it's my opinion that she shouldn't. Legality does not determine morality
There's literally no point in arguing with someone that thinks abortion is something that should be widely encouraged.
Like, baby's should stop and mankind wit with it?
The ideal end game for mankind is to solve the ageing problem and eliminate both birth and death. But I don't really have a problem with it dying out. Better that than torturing women to keep it going.
I'd like to think other prochoice people recognize how horrible that sounds.
At least they're consistent!
It would greatly simplify things if all “pro-choice” people were this honest.
17yo edgelord.  Like so many here.
He's not trying to be edgy, he literally thinks murdering a child is not murder.
17 yos are edgy without even knowing it because they're too dumb (as in they lack enough experience to have developed empathy) to realize what they're saying.  One of the reasons we have age limits for some government offices.
I don't remember being a functional idiot who advocated that murder isn't murder when I was 17.
I was pretty amoral till my mid 20s
Well, not everyone but a pretty high percentage I bet.  No source, just my experience.

The human race wouldn't last long

Sex doesn't physically harm women, and pregnancy is temporary and birth can be lessened in pain. Physical harm?  What are you smoking?
Birth causes permanent injuries and occasionally death.
And that means that we should stop reproducing, causing ourselves to go extinct?
U know what consistently causes death? Abortion
"Treatments" are for diseases or disorders.
Like pregnancy. Being naturally occurring doesn't make it not harmful to the individual. Anyone who doesn't die of something else first will inevitably develop cancer; but cancer being a natural feature of a human body doesn't mean things that cure it aren't treatments.
I think you need to define how you understand the nature of the term "healthy." Being pregnant is not a disease like cancer.
Birthing and nursing babies actually reduces the odds of many cancers
In order to know what it is for a human organism to be well you have to know what the criteria are for that. You can only establish what the criteria are in an objective sense by studying the well-being of humanity. When you do that then the fact that some condition might to some extent be harmful to a particular individual, it doesn't entail that it's an objectively bad condition with respect to the criteria. We study humanity and find out that what constitutes humanity being well biologically is that the females have babies. So a particular human female of reproductive age is healthy if she can have babies. The only way to make pregnancy into a disease would be to give an account of disease which is subjective and I don't see anything interesting about a subjective account of disease.
I'm sorry, I really can't see your view as justifiable at all. Calling pregnancy a disease or disorder just is by every extent of the word untrue. I really think you have some deep rooted mental issues you need sort out if this is your genuine viewpoint. You're not even Pro-Choice, just Pro-Killing (for the simple reason that in your opinion children are lesser human beings and because you yourself subjectively didn't want to be born) and you're not even attempting to hide it. I'd really recommend a therapist or something, like I said it really seems to me you have deep rooted issues you need to figure out, as much as you think you're being rational, you're just not, not when you actively promote the killing of children. I don't mean this in a derogatory way, genuinely, get help.
Gaslighting is not a good debate tactic, sorry.
I'm not even debating you anymore, there's no point. You have an issue and as a fellow human being I'm recommending you get help. That's all
Please get help for your fetishistic desire to have female genitalia ripped open and their organs prolapsed. Supporting torture is not normal - as evidenced by the fact that the vast majority of developed countries recognize the right to abort. If you're genuinely pro-life, you can practice what you preach here: https://nkr.donorscreen.org/register/donate-kidney Unless of course saving a life is just too inconvenient when it would involve YOUR body? Funny how so many people in this sub are so keen to force other people to save lives, but given the opportunity to do so themselves have an attitude of "can't be bothered, it might be uncomfortable, not my problem."
Listen, there's no point debating you. You're not pro choice, your view isn't even. There's a difference between killing with intent (abortion) and not saving somebody I don't know. This is very obvious. By that definition you're murdering every single person who dies from starvation in third world countries by not donating all the food you have to save them.
You're not pro life. You have the opportunity to save a life, and you're turning it down because it's too inconvenient.

I'm sure getting a kidney removed is just as risky as risky as giving birth.
How wholesome....
Lol do you not know how screen shots work?
(On the off chance that you don't, look for the "Print Screen" or "Prt Sc" button on your laptop.)
I personally find Snipping Tool really useful, as it lets you sketch out a piece of the screen to copy.
Same. I also love puush.
Whoops, yeah will use snipping tool next time, sorry!
Hey, nothing to be sorry for! Just thought it was kind of funny :P

Lmao, abortionist have killed hundreds of millions of people.

You’re guilty of /r/whataboutism as well in your initial comment. Hypocrisy.
Here's a sneak peek of /r/whataboutism using the top posts of the year! #1: John Oliver making fun of Hungarian politics? But what about the Trail of Tears! | 3 comments#2: Obama Obama Obama Obama Obama Obama Obama | 2 comments#3: Rusbot fiercely defends Russia over the nerve agent issue because Lady Diana died too | 1 comment I'm a bot, beep boop | Downvote to remove | Contact ^^me | ^^Info | ^^Opt-out

Abortion is an act of terrorism. By definition, every single pro-abortionist is an extremist, since they support the slaughter of millions of unborn children every year. You're worse than ISIS.
That's not actually terrorism. We don't need to do this. I am militantly prolife (eg, i support punishment for the mother) but that's just not necessary. It reminds me of when people called the 911 hijackers "cowards" like okay, sure, coward is a negative word, and the guys were deserving of all kinds of negative verbiage, but cowards? No.
Then you should’ve never commented. Your previous comments don’t reflect this whatsoever, just inflammatory whataboutisms. Or we can just be straightforward and discuss the sum total human deaths are ideologies are responsible for. Although you would have us beat, astronomically. Anyways, see this.
Reading that link it doesn't sound like that is the logical fallacy. The reason being is your initial comment talks about 'extreme outliers' whereas /u/Rtgh3 refers to hundreds of millions of people which is not an extreme outlier but rather the most common result of abortion.
See here.
Yeah, I had several problems with this article. The case with the Family Research Coucil was tragic, yet the SPLC did nothing wrong. The work of the FRC, especially a lot of their unfounded and false homophobic rhetoric would classify them as a hate group. A classification which is shared by many other organizations. The SPLC's classification was based on truth, while CMP videos were complete falsehoods and shown to be edited to purposely spark tensions which led to that tragic accident.
Huh? It's not an article. It's a list of videos outlining violence by prochoice people. [Here's] another (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=agzjAYG1Z8Q). You assume that prolifers have some type of history of violence which seems to be completely false. In fact, in my experience prochoicers attack prolifers more often. I would hope to think that the violent people on both sides are outliers. I believe that most people on both sides are pretty civil.
I am sorry, I was responding to a different comment. I read the Life Dynamic article. It wasn't a list of pro-choice attacks. It was simply cases of domestic abuse that were misrepresented to act as if they were pro-choice. The video you sent me is also highly exaggerated and is one instance of aggressive but overall non-lethal behavior. Basically, you have sent me two sources that are dishonest and false in their portrayal of "pro-choice violence". According to independent RAND researchers who issued a 2010 report for the National Bureau of Economic Research. Between 1973, when the Supreme Court decided abortion should be legal throughout the United States, and 2003, abortion providers have been the targets of more than 300 acts of extreme violence, including arson, bombings, murders and butyric acid attacks. We have evidence of more: more than 176,000 instances of picketing at clinics (and nearly 134,000 arrests) more than 16,000 reported cases of hate mail or harassing phone calls, over 1,500 acts of vandalism and 400 death threats. more than 550 anthrax and chemical attack threats more than 200 bombings and arson attacks at facilities that offer abortion services, Here are documented examples of terrorism: Dr. David Gunn was shot and killed in Pensacola, Florida, by a gunman who was against abortion in March 1993. Dr. John Bayard Britton and his volunteer security escort, James H. Barrett, were shot and killed in front of a Pensacola clinic in July 1994. Clinic employees Shannon Lowney and Lee Ann Nichols were shot and killed in Brookline, Massachusetts, in December 1994. Off-duty police Officer Robert Sanderson was killed in the bombing of a clinic in Birmingham, Alabama, in January 1998. A sniper killed Dr. Barnett Slepian in Amherst, New York, in October 1998. The 51-year-old physician had been the target of anti-abortion protesters since the 1980s. An anti-abortion gunman killed 67-year-old George Tiller in a Wichita, Kansas, church in 2009. Tiller was one of the few U.S. physicians who performed late-term abortions. I do too, but with that civility has to come to an acknowledgment. An acknowledgment that the sources you gave me were utter crap, and that reputable, statistical evidence conducted by the highest level of research and done by the most reputable organizations in the world concludes that your movement has a huge history of violence. And oh btw, if you try to argue that this all happened in the past, it won't work, because violence and threats are actually growing from the pro-life movement
Your source says 300 violent acts in 37 years and not even necessarily by prolifers. Seems pretty minuscule from a statistical standpoint. Lol. This makes me laugh. Killing your unborn child because the mother wants to keep the baby is prochoice violence. If it's not then the list you have given me is a series of corporate attacks. This is a pointless conversation.
Um what? 1. yes... this was done by pro-lifers. The data specifically looked at the motives involved in this case and 2. The categorization for the extreme violence was defined as arson, bombings, murders and butyric acid attacks. So to just dismiss 300 acts of extreme terrorism is simply intellectually dishonest. pro-choice: prōˈCHois/ adjective, advocating legalized abortion.. I don't see how the definition of being pro-choice entails domestic violence. If you look at the original sources where the articles were taken from, you will find that the main issues in a lot of these sections related to domestic issues, there was no "Pro-Choice" motivation here. Do you know why? Because I have provided a study from one of the world's foremost think tanks on this issue that is reputable and statistically sound and then you have the audacity to dismiss 300 instances of extreme violence and terrorism. And on top of that, you have the audacity to post a garbage right-wing site that takes stories and misinterprets them to advocate "Pro-Choice" violence where none exists. Conversations like this are pointless if one of the parties can't be intellectually honest and accept the facts.
Oh spare me your bull. Your head is to far up your own ideological butt to see reality. When you feel like being honest then contact me again. I can see that this conversation will be futile.
Alright. Let's take a step back and imagine two people are having a debate. The debate is on which color is used more to paint cars, blue or green. There is an objective answer to this question. The person who says that green is more common cites a very extreme and biased publication that has no academic or objective credibility and has a known agenda. In the article is a description of cars being described painted as turquoise, lime and yellow. She uses this to argue that green is the most common color that is painted on cars because these colors described in the article are similar to the color green. The other individual provides a reputable academic study from the one world's most prestigious think tank that has met and exceeded the highest level of methodological regular and research standards. The study defines clearly what the color blue is and delves into many categories of what constitutes painting the car blue and brings up several clear examples of when this happened, and giving a detailed time frame of long this was going on and when it occurred. The person who is trying to argue that green is used to paint more cars than resorts to insults and ad hominem attacks when they are confronted with the factual and objective evidence that contradicts their position. Any rational person can clearly make a judgment on who is being honest in this situation. I hope you can too.
This is how your biased mind sees it. Until you are able to put yourself in other's shoes this conversation is pointless. I don't think you are being factual and objective at all. Is that a surprise to you? If it is then it just goes to show how far off we are from a decent discussion. I've been around long enough to know when a discussion will be futile.

Islam?
No, Instaconfused is referring to how a few pro-lifers have committed terrorist attacks on abortion clinics and abortionists in the past. I believe the point trying to be made was that most pro-choicers don't support infanticide and it would be unfair to judge the entire movement based off of one pro-choicer, just as it would be unfair to judge the entire pro-life movement based off of a few terroristic pro-lifers.
Infanticide logically follows from abortion, though.
I agree. I was just trying to clarify what Instaconfused meant in their comment.
Ah

On the left is info about "Christ the Giver of Life Group," which is our parish pro-life group. On the right is a donation box for "ZOE for Life!" which is a pan-Orthodox women's shelter with three major goals: to help women in crisis pregnancy, to assist Orthodox Christian couples seeking to adopt, and to create an Orthodox Christian abstinence program to educate young people.
That's awesome!

"Be ashamed when you sin, not when you repent." -St. John Chrysostom

Let a righteous man strike me—it is a kindness; let him rebuke me—it is oil on my head. My head will not refuse it, for my prayer will still be against the deeds of evildoers. -Psalm 141:5

"Go and sin no more." - Jesus "If you love me, you will keep my commandments." - Jesus
Actually, I believe what he said was "Go and sin. No, more!".
Do you have a corner where you shame people for practising a religion? What an alienating way to communicate. You'll have to change your username.

OP wasn't talking about premartial sex. They were talking about their church supporting the prolife cause. You went overboard with your comment presumption. It obviously wasn't meant as a legitimate question and had zero to do with the post. The mature thing to do would be to admit it and apologize.
And i'm talking about them shitting on about being pro life, and then turning around and shaming women who've decided to keep their baby because they had premarital sex.
And who is the "them" in this situtaion. The point is that you know nothing about OPs church or what they do. Assuming just makes you look like an ass.
And that's probably the logic used for shaming premarital sex in the first place. Not that I am assuming this church is doing that.
You're the one who brought up premarital sex.
What an unnecessary comment. Flair is not relevant.
Right, because this church's pro-life section is a picture of Jesus scowling with the caption: "YOU'RE GOING TO HELL."
Most people, especially those who don't already have children or have experienced children from an older age, will usually just do what's most advantageous for them, unless they're prevented by force.Hopefully we can get the right 9 people together at the right time.
Overturning Roe v. Wade would only return abortion back to the states- Guttmacher breaks it down very nicely here.
What would establishing personhood for a fetus do?
Do you mean to say that by overturning Roe v. Wade, fetal personhood would be established?  I'm not a lawyer by any stretch of the imagination, but I don't believe that's how it would work out- correct me if I'm wrong.
No, other way around.  By establishing personhood for fetuses, RvW would be null and void at the Federal level.
Then that would imply some other people beyond the targeted 9 would be needed, surely?
The Court could find that Roe v. Wade was flawed based on the premise that there is a Right to Life starting at conception and that this should have been considered in the original decision.  That might not create citizenship, for instance, but it would probably be enough to render unconstitutional any state laws that attempted to legalize it. I'm not holding my breath for a decision worded like that, but it is certainly possible for the court to rule in that way.
What part of the Constitution could they possibly use to assert that though? Abortion was legal at the time and isn't specifically mentioned in the Constitution. So both an orginalist and textualist interpretation wouldn't conclude that. Also a fetus getting personhood  doesn't get around the privacy or bodily autonomy issues. Can a fetuses right to life Trump the right of the mother to be able to put an abortion pill in her own body. Fetal personhood would probably create a lot more issues than it would solve.
Abortion was legal in the British colonies until quickening and illegal in other places in that period.  Additionally, it was not considered particularly desirable behavior at the time even where it was legal.  The increasing number of restrictions on the practice throughout the 19th Century is evidence enough of that. The quickening rule was basically the result of a lack of understanding of conception and genetics.  They made a serious attempt to ensure that what they understood to be a child was not killed.  We know better than that now, thanks to science. It should also be pointed out that no right, including that of bodily autonomy, is worth anything without an accepted right for that person to live.  Bodily autonomy is certainly important, but is not the bedrock right in the hierarchy of necessary components to uphold our system of liberties. As for the privacy issues, if you're going to suggest that we cannot imply a right to life, I don't understand where you get the idea we can imply a right to privacy.  There is no such right in the Constitution either.  It's an implication of some of the provisions, but the scope of that implied right is certainly subject to the possibility of exceptions, just as the very clearly written First Amendment has common sense exceptions. Yes, of course it can.  And as I've pointed out before, maintaining such a view also means that you'd have to accept that a woman has a right to abort her pregnancy even seconds before birth.  It is in her body, she may dispose of it as she wishes, that is what the bodily autonomy argument gets you. I can't argue that if you return 600,000+ people per year to the population, that you're not going to have problems that can crop up.  But so what?  I can solve innumerable problems by killing the people who cause them.  That's not a justification for killing them. We can solve problems.  We can't restore life to a single person who has lost it.
I’ve pretty much set out to change hearts first rather than minds. People make their minds up well before and after, but their hearts are usually always open. If they are willing to actually listen, I use science only. No religion as that doesn’t help either person. Followed by logic and law. Changing hearts involves knocking down the image that there is no help. That there is no love, etc.
I think it's a mistake to think about matters of the head and matters of the heart as non-overlapping. If you examine the reasons you think some particular action is wrong you'll eventually trace the reasons back to a basic reason. A principle that you couldn't imagine being wrong. These are the basic principles which support the conclusion that whatever action is wrong or whatever. These would be our core value principles. It's hard to change them and you can see why. When you think about a core principle it's hard to even conceive of it being wrong. I can't imagine a world where it would be OK to abandon a child because that child is inconvenient, for instance. You can change a person's core principles by appealing to their heart and mind. It's impossible to avoid this. You can talk to someone all you want to about science but it won't change their heart. You can talk to someone all you want about values and it won't change what they think about the facts. You have to bring fact and value together to lead them to the conclusion which is so clear and evident to us.
I think it also depends a lot on the experiences the person has been through.  It's been shown that having a child changes both women and men's brains and the way they think.  Until you've actually had a kid you won't really see the value or worth of them.  You see this attitude a lot with the kids here on Reddit and on imgur.
Even if they disagree with abortion morally, they'll often still have one.  I'm also sure many that Do agree with abortion wouldn't have one if it were actually illegal to perform.  It would be easier and safer to have the child and put them up for adoption.
Not true.  I was born and raised 100% Pro-choice, I'm still very liberal on almost every other issue.   When I became pregnant at 18 I did not get an abortion even though I was in college, and I wasn't with the dad and I had many other "excuses" that women use to feel justified in killing their babies.
I used the qualifier "often" not always.  You, lady, are a rare and outstanding exception!
In a tactical sense, I agree that the Justices are critical to this, but I think that the current thinking of society will just raise up other such obstacles, like the Court, until we have an understanding that abortion is not merely a difficult choice, it's a non-starter. While there is enough ambiguity in the Constitution to permit the current reading of the Court, there is no overriding constitutional reason why abortion had to be legal either. This is where courts are both necessary, but also the weak link.  We really had almost zero solid guidance on this from the framers of the Constitution.  That's likely because they spent time on working out compromises on things that needed compromises. What I don't think people at the time had any doubt about was the value of life.  And because they didn't doubt it, they unfortunately left the question open for a society that had taken a different, less ethical turn. The point here is, those Justices were effectively left to their own devices when it came to decisions like Roe.  They effectively created something new based on their understanding of existing rights.  And that is why the Justices matter, but the battle is far from over if, and when, they overturn Roe.
You thinking the people that wrote the Constitution, which codified slavery, valued life very highly? I don't think that's a good argument.
I rather think you've made my point for me.  Slavery was controversial, it required a compromise and specific provisions.  Not killing your children was not particularly controversial a position, so it did not require one.
I'd say that it wasn't a controversial opinion in the other direction. But who knows.
Judicially remove abortionists
When someone sets their minds to think that abortion is NOT murder, I think they are pretty much done, unless some sort of miracle occurs. I can happily say that was my case.
When I was young and in college, I though just the same as many people I discuss it with now: "just a clump of cells", blah, blah, blah.  It was actually having children that showed me how wrong I was, and that having kids wasn't as scary as I had thought.
Same here! Well, I think it was actually slightly before I got pregnant that things started to change for me...thank god...or I don't know if I would have kept my son. I guess things came together well enough for me so that I didn't make that horrible choice. I honestly can't tell you though what helped me make that change. I've never heard of someone being adamantly pro-life and then deciding abortion is fine (not including people who were "raised" pro-life but didn't actually care that much) but I've heard of plenty that did it the other way around!
Absolutely!  That says something right there.
Particularly those who agree with it until birth. I recently had a debate with a friend, and her view was that abortion is justifiable even when the baby could survive outside the womb, and that's just abhorrent. It's literally stating that babies are lesser human beings. When I confronted her on this she just got really angry and upset so there was no point continuing. I certainly think less of people like her, it's just an indefensible view. I understand she has been probably misinformed her whole life but after being confronted with the facts and ignoring them I just don't even know. Do you know anybody with a viewpoint that changed how you saw them? Is it okay to feel that way?
i think less of someone who mocks someone who is pro life ie john oliver
It really depends. As someone who was once lukewarmly pro-choice, I can sort of understand someone holding that position if they haven't thought about it very deeply in the first place. I am friends with some pro-choice people and even though we usually avoid to debate it, when we do, it's calm and collected and we can "agree to disagree" so to say. This includes people, who support abortion in case of rape, birth defects, etc. Even though it is still murder, I can understand where they are coming from and they usually understand where I am coming from too, so we can get along. But if someone is vehemently pro-choice, campaigning for it etc., supporting "abortion at 41 weeks" and similar nonsense, that's a different situation. I would probably struggle with maintaining friendship with them.
I'd have no problem maintaining a friendship with someone who thought it was okay in situations of rape or incest or something, because at least we agree that on demand abortion is wrong and there's actually some kind of justification for those situations. But this person doesn't care, the mother has supreme choice over a child's life. She even stated that what makes a human beings life valuable is being able to speak, to which I replied one year olds often can't speak and she just ignored it. Idk man, I'm struggling.
This flawed logic also means people that who are deaf or mute would also be considered “not human” by her bent standards
Literally made that argument, and i then said that her logic places children as the least human in our society, to which she told me never to talk about abortion to her again.
In my opinion people with poor logic and reasoning skills will eventually skew your views because you wish to keep them as a friend.  Sometimes it’s better to surround yourself with people that think critically instead of spouting off nonsense that they heard from pro-choice activists. It’s regrettable when someone fails to see their flaws. But at the end of the day it happens, life isn’t always easy it’s regrettable when someone fails to see their flaws. But at the end of the day it happens, life isn’t always easy.
There's a lot of beliefs someone can hold that'll make me think less of them. Finding out someone is prochoice is like finding out someone is racist, it just stains my opinion of them.
The sad thing is that being prolife is frowned upon in society..
I have plenty of pro-choice friends. I understand they feel great empathy with the mother and just want to make people's lives easier. I tend not to think that people who disagree with me are evil monsters. I think ultimately the pro-choice position is immoral, but most pro-choicers aren't pro-choice because they hate children or anything. They're just approaching the problem from an angle that I think is flawed, that's all But when it comes to a long term relationship, I'd hope my partner was pro-life. On the important issues, it's key that people agree, wouldn't you say?
I'm very selective with who I consider to be my friends. Finding out that one of my friends is pro-choice would be like find out out that they're incredibly racist. If I can't change their mind through discussion and dialogue, I would probably slowly distance myself from them. Not to say that I don't want to discuss abortion with a pro-choicer, but I wouldn't exactly want to be their friend either.
It’s really difficult to not let such an awful perspective completely destroy how you look at a person. Maybe this is patronizing, but I tend to think such people have a level of cognitive dissonance that allows them to see something so morally inconsistent as acceptable or even good. While cognitive dissonance isn’t a virtue, I also don’t view it as grounds for totally dismissing a relationship. If I know I won’t be able to change someone’s mind, I also don’t try to engage them on abortion, it doesn’t help anyone. That being said, I think I would struggle a lot to maintain a friendship with someone who had an abortion, if they understood my objections and their alternatives and still choose to go through with it. I hope I would have the grace to not condemn them for it, but it can be so emotionally challenging.
The majority of people who have abortions don't know any better. They've been told their whole life it's just cells, and honestly I don't blame those people. I can understand they were ignorant. But this individual literally stated to me she agrees it's a human being but it's still okay to kill. And she had the gall to tell me that my argument wasn't very good even though all I did was state what her logic was implying. I certainly have a low opinion of her now, but I'll still maintain a friendship. I'm a strong believer that political beliefs shouldn't play a part in friendships (romantic relationships.. I think they do), but it's tough when I so adamantly disagree
She’s definitely in denial, since the logical conclusion of her argument is that murder is morally acceptable. It’s frustrating, but not uncommon.
I don't really agree with this. I believe it's each individual person's responsibility to know better. For example, I wouldn't excuse someone from owning slaves just because they were told their entire life that it's okay. It's something they should be able to figure out on their own. Of course this would only apply to people who are old enough and mature enough to differentiate between right and wrong. Someone such as a 13 year old would be excused from this.
Yes, you actually make a very fair point. People do have the responsibility to know better. Of course it's inexcusable, but abortion is such a culturally accepted thing and there's so much misinformation out there, i feel it's a little different than slavery which isn't culturally accepted in the west, but yes i agree with you. People should know better. Really the point i was making is I wouldn't blame them legally, like I wouldn't charge them with murder or anything due to it being so culturally accepted and the misinfo. I'd blame abortionists.
Ah, okay. You meant legally. In that case, I agree with you.
If she agrees that it’s life, and agrees it’s not her life. Why does she think killing someone else is ok? Would murder on the streets be acceptable as well? Her logic is flawed I wouldn’t end my relationship with her but take her words with a huge grain of salt considering her logic is skewed to the extremely inhumane.
Not true. I used to be pro life and then I realized I was wrong because an embryo has no capacity for consciousness. I had an abortion at 5 weeks recently and it was the best decision for me and my family.
What's not true? Your situation is literally what I described, and even if you were correct, the vast vast majority of women getting abortions grew up being told it's just cells
When you're young, it's more likely that your thinking is black and white (abortion is murder!). Then as you grow up you realize things are way more complex.
Well, it's obviously a complex situation. But we are talking about the life of a human being here. There's no consistent line to draw for becoming a human than conception
Birth? And what about identical twins then? And chimeras? Are identical twins one person because there was one zygote and are chimeras two people because there were zygotes at conception?
Birth. See the problem I see with that is it's actually not as consistent as you may think. So a baby born at 7 months is alive but one inside the womb at 9 isn't? It doesn't make sense. Babies have survived as far back as 4/5 months. Also your philosophy would lead you to believe that if it's inside the womb, it's not alive, therefore it doesn't matter what we do to it. So is killing a baby ten minutes before birth, or even seconds before birth, acceptable? It's not alive by your standards, so it's okay? What does ten inches outside the womb change that makes it a living being? When it clearly has functioning organs, a brain, a beating heart, its own DNA etc. etc. I don't see how the identical twin thing applies? Life begins at conception, the zygote can split. It just means more than one life began at said conception ? I never stated one life can begin there. Cell division, growth. That's how life is defined, and that occurs from conception.
You didn't address chimeras though. Two conceptions, one person. Of course embryos and fetuses are alive. If they're not, that's a miscarriage. Eggs and sperm are alive, too. Life is a continuous, it never stops. That's what life is actually. While it's alive, it's not a person though. In the same way that sperm are not people, skin cells, cancer cells are not persons even though they're all alive. BTW, are you invested in finding a solution for all the fertilized eggs that never implanted (up to 60-70%)? Should we try to save their lives the way we're trying to save dying children in war zones? What about miscarriages?
I'm really not familiar with chimeras, but you're looking at well under 1% of the population here I'd imagine. These are birth defects. I'm sure if I looked into it I could give you a better answer. So basically what you're saying is that yes, I was right in assuming that you believe killing a baby ten seconds before birth is okay? It's not a person, so why not? And at that I must repeat my question, what about the ten inches between the womb and the outside makes it a human being? Sperm isn't a human. A zygote is in my opinion. Like I said, it's the only consistent line to draw. You didn't counter my point on the Inconsistency when it comes to babies being born at different times though so really it's futile until I know your stance on that. Do I have to be invested in that? Thats not a fair comparison. You compared the egg not implanting to not saving people. Well, sure. But there's a difference between actively killing somebody with intent (murder, abortion) and not saving somebody. If they were the same, I'd be responsible for every single death on the entire planet essentially. And even at that, eggs not implanting is not anybodies fault. It's on a microscopic scale at that point, it's just the way nature is that some won't implant. There's nothing we can do really. My argument carries over to miscarriage. There's no intent, it's not anybodies fault. It's just something that happens for whatever reason. Sure we can do what we can to make sure it doesn't happen, but failing to do so is definitely different to actively killing a fetus. See the distinction?

Don't think less of your friend or anyone who is pro choice. The only way to make any headway is to treat people with different views respectfully. The moment someone feels judged or talked down to, they tend to close their minds. Make sure to keep their minds open, because opinions aren't set in stone. You probably will never change her completely, but you can make incremental steps. Plant a little bit of doubt in her mind, and nourish that doubt by just being a good, rational person around her. At the very least, by being accepting of her beliefs, you can change her view of pro lifers. Most pro choice people see pro lifers as ranting, raving, religious nut jobs who want half of the country hanged for murder. But you can change that view by not letting your differences affect your friendships. It really goes a long way. A few friends of mine helped change me from being pro-choice not long ago.
It depends on what their reasons are. If they are pro-abortion for reasons of "over population" or for "crime rate" then yes I think they are repugnant. But if they appeal to reasons that are initially plausible (even though ultimately are not) then I think they are tragically mistaken but not abhorrent persons.
Her reasoning was she knew people who've had abortions and she knew it was the right choice for them, essentially. But that same reasoning could be applied to any immoral act, so it's not legitimate.
Before making harsh judgments of people you should be sure that they deserve it. I've heard people give really poor reasons for abortion, reasons that are repugnant, but usually in a debate context it's because they want to "win" and not because it's something they really believe in their hearts. Sometimes in a moral debate people will assert morally absurd things just to make their view seem more consistent. But the virtues of the pro-life view are that it's consistent and plausible - not merely consistent.
^ this is some great insight.
Yes, absolutely.
Idk about think less I'd be very uncomfortable
My best friend of 12 years who i love dearly is prochoice and has had an abortion. I don't think less of her per se, as much as im just frustrated sometimes with her lack of deep thinking about it
Absolutely. People in this thread have compared prochoice to racist but it's far worse. Unless racists want to mass murder people of other races, it's not even close. Prochoice/abortion people are the worst of the worst.
I don't automatically think less of them.  The problem is that for many "pro-choice" people, society makes it easy for them to not think about it very hard, and they are very happy to not get involved.  We all have blind spots on some issues. Also, there are people out there who have truly been deceived into thinking that they are helping.  Facing a single mother who is scared and doesn't know what to do is not easy.  You're going to feel for her position. And because you can't see the baby, you're going to tend to focus on what you're seeing, which is a scared woman or girl who believes her life is over with. So I don't disrespect people who see that and think the "pro-choice" side is a good compromise. But it does mean that I immensely respect individuals and groups that have seen through that.  They understand that there is a life in the balance and they can look at the problem objectively and make a hard decision to have to tell that scared person that, even though they are in a tough spot, there is someone who depends on them now, and their life is not over, despite the poor situation. The people I do respect understand that the "pro-choice" argument is either something like eugenics, or they are making the logical fallacy of making an argument from moderation.  They know that many pro-choice people falsely believe that some sort of compromise can be made with someone's  entire life. What I do not respect are those in politics or who should be more educated who keep pushing the narratives of "overpopulation" or somehow separating humans from their humanity by arguments like the "clump of cells" or "bodily autonomy uber alles" sorts of arguments.  I feel like they are less interested in the immediate pathos of a scared girl, and more about trying to socially engineer some sort of perfect world where we can simply reclassify and kill any problem that gets in the way of our standard of living.  My dislike is generally reserved for those folks exclusively.
I don't care what someone's personal beliefs are. You could have the most wicked beliefs and if you're a fun person to be around and talk to, I'll be your friend. That's their personal beliefs and just because you disagree with them, doesn't mean you should ostracize them. In fact, it makes them better to be around since if personal beliefs do come up on a topic, it makes for excellent conversations. This obviously changes with marriage, rooming with someone, or anything where it's more than just hanging out on a weekend or something. If I'm marrying someone, I would want them to be pro-life for example or any other value I agree with. Same with moving in, but to a lesser extent. I'm not going to want to move in with someone who I disagree with when it comes to things such as materialism and finance. Where I draw the line with friends is when people's personal beliefs themselves make them not fun to be around. Just as an example, I've grown distant from heavily religious people I knew because they would tell me how being an agnostic atheist is wrong and that my life has no moral guidance without religion. Um sorry, I'd be more than happy to defend your freedom of religious conscience, but when it comes to mine it's not okay?
My best friend of 27 years grew up in a Democrat household. I knew she'd support Clinton in the election, but it was when she started promoting late-term abortion that I couldn't believe what I was seeing. To make matters worse, she's Catholic, albeit somewhat recently returned to the Church after a long lapse. I did my best to educate her in a loving and respectful way, yet also firmly because there is no grey area when it comes to abortion (as Catholics, anyway). She refused to listen. It was her choice to "take a break," but when she tried to contact me to discuss our "misunderstanding," I doorslammed (INFJ thing). I gave it a lot of thought before I did that, because she was my absolute closest friend for the vast majority of my life, but I just couldn't be friends with her anymore. It's especially galling because she's a mother...just can't understand that mentality.
I think it depends a lot on the individual. I wouldn't necessarily think less of someone just for being pro-choice, but that often comes with other traits that do make me think less of someone. I will look down on someone who's pro-choice and aggressively hostile to anyone who disagrees, or illustrates a fundamental lack of understanding of the pro-life position (often illustrated by habitual strawmanning). I'll definitely look down on someone who presumes to know my motives for being pro-life better than I do.
I think views such as the ones you describe your friend having, are monstrous. Especially when they react with anger at being challenged. It can be difficult to find the proper line between respectful disagreement (even about touchy topics) and deal-breakers. But I do think there are lines in the sand, and certainly open embrace of infanticide is a reasonable line. This gets particularly foul with abortion since the amount of doublethink and hypocrisy that goes on with it is tremendous. Look at how many people will endorse utterly unrestricted abortion, but will cheerfully celebrate a pregnancy for themselves or among their friends/social group.
That makes sense, though. A vast majority of pro-choice people support abortion as a choice when it would be inconvenient for the mother. But if the child is wanted, it's OK. People who hate children so much that they would not share in the joy of their close ones having children are still a niche (though this sentiment does seem to be growing, unfortunately)
It makes sense in a way, but not in another. And I think pro-life people would do well to spoil the moment of pro-choice people who 'celebrate that (we!) are pregnant'. Don't allow them to live with the inconsistency. If they're happy with the life they're going to bring into the world, remind them of what position they hold. A cheerfully pregnant pro-life woman is still playing host to a parasite, by her view.
Hell yes,  they're condoning murder.

Good argument but we could always just point out the fact that second priority in a hypothetical fire rescue situation doesn't justify the killing of millions. And here's our question: "Many times throughout history, groups in our species have been declared sub-human and  deserving to be killed, can you name just one time it's worked out well? If you can I'll concede defeat."
I think your first point is exactly the point that my post makes: that being second in a “who to save” situation tells us nothing about who to kill. Good point on the second point.
I don't think it's supposed to justify killing, more to show that there is in fact a distinction. The second part is kind of a circular argument, it doesn't make sense to have sub-people,  implying that they are people, but less important. But the argument is that they aren't people in the first place. Like it's bad to be a second class citizens, but it's not bad to just not be a citizen. Within nthe group, everyone should be treated equally, but that doesn't imoly that everyone is in the group. Slaves and people who have been oppressed like that have generally been considered a person, just a lesser one. But they we're considered people.
If the distinction established doesn't justify killing then it's not a relevant distinction. [edit: I misspoke. I meant that if the distinction established doesn't justify killing then the scenario doesn't help in analyzing what is relevant in justify killing]
It's might not be sufficient, but it can still be relevant. Both sides would agree that it's wrong to treat members of the same group differently. But if we agree that there is in fact a distinction, and we do in fact treat them differently, then either your a bad person for making the distinction, or that they aren't in the same group so the distinction is warranted.
What? I said if the distinction that the argument establishes doesn't justify killing then it's not a relevant distinction which matters when thinking about what kind of thing it's OK to kill. It doesn't matter if it shows we treat them differently in situations where whether we can kill them or not is irrelevant. [edit: I misspoke. I meant that if the distinction established doesn't justify killing then the scenario doesn't help in analyzing what is relevant in justify killing]
Do you think that there is a distinction?
I should have been more clear. What I meant to say is that if the argument doesn't show that the distinctions which it brings out when we reflect on it are relevant in justifying killing then the distinctions we bring out on reflection of the scenario cannot be said to be relevant to justifying killing based on reflection of the scenario. The distinctions brought out by reflection on that scenario may be morally relevant to justifying killing but this scenario won't establish that.
I don't think it's meant to establish that in its own though. I think the idea is, you admit that there is in fact a distinction, we treat a fetus differently than we treat a child, but like to say, doesn't mean that we can kill it. What that does though is possibly throw a wrench in the "it's wrong to treat people differently argument" which both sides would agree on. So seeing as how most of the people would in fact treat the fetus differently, then we either acknowledge that were all wrong, acknowledge that its actually ok, or say that they aren't people. It's completely possible to be in the 1st group, where you would do it, but also think it's wrong. Almost everyone would reject the 2nd one and the pro choice folks would be the third.
Then it's irrelevant. it shows that in certain triage situations some fetuses, maybe all, are treated differently than older children. Sometimes adults would be treated with priority than children. It depends on a lot of factors in triage. But none of those differences are relevant to justifying killing. The argument doesn't establish that.
Are people still throwing this argument around?  Maybe we should have an FAQ page for people to refer to so we don't have to bore ourselves pointing all how terrible an argument it is.
I’ve heard it pretty frequently (I last heard this argument within the last few days), and this essay did a good job pointing out the serious issues with the argument. I figured some other people here might like to read it. Did you read the post? It sounds like you’re assuming that it’s making the burning clinic argument when it’s quite the opposite. This is exactly the type of content that would be useful on an FAQ, so I don’t see how posting it is “boring ourselves pointing out how terrible an argument it is.” About half the posts on here are pointing out how terrible one bad-pro choice argument or another is anyway.
Sorry, I'm more lamenting that people are still using the argument, which is so bad that even a pro-choicer should be able to see through it.  The article you posted is fine.
I totally understand! Sorry if I was harsh. I agree, even a pro-choicer should be able to see how bad their argument is.
My answer is just,  i don't fucking know. The question could be "if you had to save one of two random 5 year olds who both weighed 42 lbs, both of them were of equal distance from you,  and you didn't know either of them personally, which one would you save???" I don't know, what the heck does this prove? It would be a hard decision, so what?
I am struck by this; I would find saving the embryos rather than the five-year-old immoral even in that scenario. (I should mention that I dislike the argument that this article is replying to.  I dislike appeals to emotion like that.)
O.k. that's your feeling but, imagine that if you viewed the embryo as equal to any born person. And imagine that embryo had the same rate of survival. I think people would choose the 5 year old because of basic triage and nothing more. What if a father chose to save his preemie over the 5 year old? Would that be equally shocking. Why or why not? Just throwing out some thoughts.
I feel the way the author phrased it is that the inclusion of the protagonist’s genetic material in the crate of embryos would change the ethical conclusion.
I think the author was saying that our emotional reactions to moral situations are not necessarily going to be indicative of axioms outlining the issue. I'm sure they can inform us but, the same could have been said for parents who had adopted the embryo. In this case, I think we can all agree that who gets served first in a triage setting is not an expression toward their moral worthiness or worthlessness. A host of other factors will play a role and most if not all seem completely unrelated to the human being's worth or rights.

If you have a problem with CPC's counseling women out of getting abortions, consider this: CPC's also offer ultrasounds, pregnancy testing, birth control, adoption services, financial assistance, childcare and a whole host of other things. If you look at all the services these centers provide, counseling women out of having abortions is only about 3% of what they do.
Zing!
Holy shit that was amazing
That's very clever. :D
I can't even like John Oliver if I agreed with him. He's such a snide and smug asshole about everything I can't help but just turn him off immediately. His comedy is really subpar too. It boils down to "Look at this absurd thing. Please laugh now, audience. Now look at this crazy thing! Now laugh again! Aren't I funny?!". His show is almost a kind of brainwashing to indoctrinate people through comedy.
YES. That was brilliant ;)
He is the worst.  He should go back to his rainy, socialist island.
England hasn't been a Socialist country since the 1980's.
Yes, I won't call modern day England socialist, but it's pretty damn rainy.
Yes, England, a place with so much government regulation a man can't even build a massive slide that decapitates children on his own property.
Well, now we all know. He's another puppet in the pro abortion indoctrination train.
John Oliver is a mildly funny mouthpiece for cultural Marxist propaganda. You can consider everything he says to be inspired by the extremist wing of the Democrat party.
I enjoy watching Crowder and his "change my mind series" even if he does have some faulty logic. Beyond that I have no use for Steven Crowder. I believe that an association with him tarnishes the very issue he is attempting to support.
Can you explain how so? I’m not that familiar with crowder, but what I’ve seen doesn’t seem very tarnishing so far.
As someone who's long been a big fan of Crowder, I'd assume they're referring to the Cenk incident- that was a rather childish and pointless move on Crowder's part.
I had never heard of the incident before. I had no idea who Crowder was until a few weeks ago. The bit is similar to the things I have watched. He attends events just to piss people off. There is no intention of having an honest debate it is all a stunt for YouTube ad revenue.
It's the one time he "attended an event just to piss people off". There was no underlying point, no message, just him disrupting an event Cenk had going on.
What was the Cenk incident?
Here's a video of it: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PMSRAz2VZqk he goes to one of cenk talks/q&a and keeps interupting cenk. Crowder is presumably a converative and one of the things conservative care about is free speech so it seems like crowder cares more about his comedy than his values.
It is not the reason I dislike him but his logic during some of the convince me discussions is just so faulty. I am assuming he knows that and is using it as a way to push his views on a random person who does not have the same time to do the research. He attends events just to piss people off. There is no intention of having an honest debate it is all a stunt for YouTube ad revenue. He shows up asks targeted questions trying to get a negative reaction so he can act shocked for his audience.
I don't like how he seems to see everything as a left vs. right thing.
Easier that way I guess, same thing Oliver and everyone else does.
I agree. I think a lot of the times he is more concerned with his comedy bits than the issues.
I love Crowder
People are surprised a left wing British comedian is pro choice? Really?
Not pro-choice, pro-abortion. He doesn't believe in choice.
Ah, yes. I recently made the mistake of sharing my experience at a CPC on a different sub and was downvoted pretty intensely. Should have known my audience, I guess. However, my question is, are there centers like the ones described in the article that actually lie to pregnant women, or are we being spoon-fed propaganda, only. And what is our responsibility regarding "fake clinics" if they are being deceitful?
https://youtu.be/22hYHbQyHbU
He gave a straw man for the conception criterion and knocked it down based on a non sequitur from "vagueness" and then admitted his own criterion is vague but said that's OK because it's more correct and gave no argument for why it's more correct. Lol wtf. Sam Harris is silly sometimes.
So basically his counter argument boils down to "If abortion is murder, then masturbation is genocide." Such terrible logic seems to be par for the course of one of the "New" Atheists.
The "I think I'm so clever when really I'm just revealing how little I understand about basic biology" argument :P
Its a steaming pile of garbage. Pro-lifers don't want to end abortion because its killing life. They want to end abortion because its killing a human life (which is distinct from just human life, which could be sperm or red blood cells, or anything else). He then asserts that preventing pregnancy would be murder. The fuck? If a human life exists, we cannot kill it. If a human life does not exist, there would be nothing to kill. You cannot kill something that doesn't even exist yet. Conception creates a genetically unique and complete, yet undeveloped, human organism. THAT is what you cannot kill. I think he knows that and is deliberately straw manning.
Rambling.

7,000,000 eggs?  That seems high.  Source?
http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/baby/fert_text.html https://mobile.nytimes.com/2013/02/01/booming/womens-eggs-diminish-with-age.html You are only born with about 2mil though. Also you lose thousands of eggs a month during adolescence.
TIL.  Thanks!
You're very welcome! And 7 million does sound like a lot! I can't even picture 7 million egg cells in a tiny little baby. Nature is mind boggling sometimes.
I try to imagine 7mil eggs and all I get is a handful of caviar. Smh.
Well they're smaller than caviar but, not gonna lie, thats how my brain wants to picture it too.
It's estimated that every second an adult will lose 5 million cells to cell death, mainly skin and blood cells that have a high turnover rate. Cells are really small, and we are made from a lot of them. Nature is mind boggling.
Holy cow. Though egg cells are actually pretty giant (for a cell), I'm assuming the immature egg cells in a fetus are smaller?
Yes. The immature eggs (oocytes) are about the size of other cells in the body. I believe the mature egg cells are comparatively huge due to the division processes that generate the mature cell.
That's really cool, does anyone know how they figured out that a fetus so young can hear and see?
Observing reaction to stimuli. If a fetus reacts when you shine a light or play a loud noise, they saw it/heard it. I'm sure this has been studied under ultrasound. I remember pretty early on in my pregnancy an uptick in movement after a loud sound or while playing music. This is anecdotal, mind you, but relevant.
I support the sentiment, but let’s not perpetuate the common misconception that the consensus among academic philosophers is that abortion is permissible; the only good paper that makes this case without depending on some dubious if not ludicrous premises is Philippa Foot’s, and in it she concedes that abortion is (or at least might well be) morally wrong—her argument is just that we may not always think it’s right to make people do the right thing. You don’t often hear pro-life philosophers unless you seek them out because academic careers are fragile things, and I suspect also because the vast majority of pro-abortion papers are so blatantly stupid that serious philosophers don’t think it’s worth the trouble to engage. I mean why should a professional philosopher bother writing a paper in response to Liz Harman on abortion when James Franco can expose her sloppy thinking just fine? Don Marquis’s “Why Abortion is Immoral” is the best paper I’ve read on the topic.
I agree with you but I'm not sure this was insinuating that the general consensus among philosophers is that abortion is permissible. It's obviously a dig at the whole "Keep your rosaries off my ovaries" thing, and this sign is basically saying "keep your philosophy to yourself, I'm gonna go with actual biology." and that science should be the deciding factor, not someones feelings, opinions, or philosophies.
I think that was the point, which unfortunately means her point was absurd and incoherent.  The belief that murder is wrong is a philosophy.  You can’t go into a lab and mix some chemicals together and discover the “murder is wrong” compound.  Ethical claims are philosophy by definition, which is why that is the primary sphere where this question is addressed.
I think the claim is "Abortion doesn't kill a human being so abortion is fine" and we're saying "Science and biology say abortion does kill a human being." The former would be ignoring biology in favor of philosophical arguments.
Well the problem is that “abortion doesn’t kill a human” isn’t even a philosophical argument.  It’s also a biological claim, just one which happens to be totally incorrect.  (And for what it’s worth, that’s not a claim that pro-choice philosophers tend to make anyway...that’s more the scientifically illiterate laymen)
Have you never had someone say to you "I don't believe it kills a human being so you shouldn't push that on me or the laws..." It doesn't matter if it actually is a philosophical argument, they are using it as one so they can ignore the science of it. This sign is a rejection of that.
That's just more about the colloquial definition of what human being means, like yes technically and scientifically it's a human. I don't think people are really disagreeing with that, more so that it isn't a state of human that has rights yet. People use words in a colloquial sense that aren't exactly the same as the scientific sense. Pointing that out doesn't really help anything.
Except that there's no such thing as a human without rights.
Say who? That isn't a factual statement, because rights are a social construct. Rights are whatever people agree that they are.
Just because its a social construct doesn't mean I can't make a statement like that. It is dangerous a fuck to say that only SOME humans have rights. What happens when the wrong people start deciding that? Edit autocorrect

Yes, obviously I have heard that, as I specifically mentioned that with respect to the people referred to in the last 3 words of my post. The problem here is you’re confusing 2 things, the argument “if something isn’t human, we can ethically kill it” is a philosophical argument.  One you might even agree with them on.  It is only when this is accompanied with the biological claim “and the fetus isn’t human” that you part ways.
I'm not arguing anything, and no I don't agree with that...? I'm simply explaining why the poster wasn't about philosophers.......? It's about pro-choicers denying biology so they can turn something that is factual into something they can call philosophical.
Yes, which I agree with obviously.  I'm only pointing out that their doing so does not turn biological claims into "philosophy".  It just means those who do that have shit biology.
I never said they actually turned them into philosophical claims, I meant that they used philosophical assertions to deny biological realities.
I’m reading “my biology” as referring to her (the fetus’s) body; there are no purely biological answers to moral questions.
I took it to mean my biology as in the baby's body as well as saying that they can't use philosophy to dismiss the scientific facts of fetal development. There is a purely biological answer to fetal development, but that has no bearing on whether someone finds that meaningful so you're not really wrong.
I love how France just cuts the video right after she finally stops talking. Clearly thought she was insane
Thanks for the new reading material!
What’s your opinion on this article ?https://ieet.org/index.php/IEET2/more/Messerly20160517
I'm surprised it's written by a philosophy PhD; it misrepresents or skirts over strong arguments against abortion and critically evaluates the only the weakest, and even that's careless. I did a spit take at "the fetus satisfies few if any of the necessary and sufficient conditions for personhood." Personhood is such a sloppy, nebulous concept that to reference a list of necessary and sufficient conditions for its satisfaction is to completely beg the question. To see how this works, click his link and read the criteria he seems to endorse (which, by the way, seem to exclude people who are in comas unless you adopt a view of traits/dispositions that would also vindicate fetuses). Edit: thanks for the link, I don't mean to be an asshole, you asked a perfectly good question.
It’s a bit ridiculous to claim that the entire body of work from the field of bioethics which argues that abortion is acceptable is somehow incoherent or ludicrous and that you are somehow the lone rational person who has figured this out.  Not even pro-life philosophers, who are actually familiar with this topic, say that, and among professionals there’s generally an acknowledgement that there’s a lot of good thinking on both sides, even though the respective sides ultimately disagree with the other.  Speaking like that just makes you look like an arrogant outsider rooting for your team as opposed to someone engaging with the actual material. You would also do well to realize that you merely disliking a conclusion or premise is not equivalent to it being nonsensical.
You misread me. I'm not saying I dislike pro-abortion philosophers' conclusions and some of their premises—I'm saying they're wrong. I came to my pro-life position by reading philosophy, not the other way around. To claim that arguments for a particular position are either somehow incoherent or depend on dubious premises is just to say that they're wrong. How else can an argument turn out  wrong? "Hey Feuerbach, it's a bit ridiculous to claim that the entire body of work from the field of scholastic philosophy which argues that God exists is somehow incoherent or ludicrous and that you are somehow the lone rational person who has figured this out." That's not very compelling, is it?

Which is apparently more than you! Saying a human with rights implies there are humans who have no rights. Edit: yes, logic does hurt.
wait I just looked through his post history and I recognize this guy!what's up u/factsmakeyoumad? made another troll account?
Did you lose your bridge?

Trent is one of my favorite pro life and catholic apologists, however I would say Boonin may have edged him out here.
Really? What points of his did you find to be particularly strong?
He accepted the main premise of Trent's arguments and showed that even if we consider life to begin at conception, or that the fetus has a right to life, abortion is still permissible. The key thing here was that he defined the right to life in a way that most pro-lifers would also agree with in practice, and his bone marrow analogy is a fairly good analogy to pregnancy.
I really liked how he assumed for the sake of argument that the unborn are worthy of life. It's an approach that most pro-choicers in my experience don't take and is refreshing to hear. Anyways, as for the bone marrow analogy, I don't at all consider it to be a good comparison to pregnancy. The key difference here is that allowing someone to die and directly killing them are two very different things. You can deny someone your bone marrow, but you can't go out of your way to kill them. Abortion falls under the latter category because a fetus is perfectly healthy and abortion is a procedure that actively kills it; more comparable to stabbing a random person in the street to death. Bottom line is that allowing someone to die from some cause other than yourself (such as cancer) is legal, whereas directly killing them yourself (such as stabbing or drowning) is illegal. I don't believe that it should be any different in the case of abortion. I would also like to point out that "right to life" can be a confusing and misleading phrase. When I say "right to life", I'm not saying that everyone has a right to have their life preserved no matter what. By that logic, all of us should be legally obligated to donate our organs, bone marrow, blood and even money in order to save other people. Of course I don't support this at all. Instead what I mean by "right to life" is that everyone has a right to not be killed. This is why I am in favour of keeping it illegal to commit homicide regardless of the victim's age, race, gender and so on. (Although there should be exceptions for certain circumstances such as self-defense). Unborn human beings should also have the right to not be killed and therefore, abortion should be illegal.
I think the analogy fails in several respects. Many people usually try to bring this charge up in response to the Violinist argument which is what the Bone Marrow argument is based on off. The problem with this argument is that usually, the pro-lifer fails to establish that the act of removing the fetus from the womb is the act that originates the fatal sequence of events in the case of procedures such as hysterotomy. To point out that the fetus while in the womb is not in jeopardy does not suffice to establish that the act of removing it from the womb is the act that originates the fatal sequence. Let's compare this with the Violinist example (which I assume you would be familiar with). After all, the violinist while plugged into you is not in jeopardy either, and the act of unplugging yourself is not the act that originates the fatal sequence in that case: It merely allows a preexisting sequence to continue. Unplugging yourself results in the violinist’s death only because his condition is such that he cannot survive on his own, and thus the act that originates the fatal sequence that you allow continuing is whatever act led to its being the case that the violinist had this condition. Similarly, then, since removing the fetus from the womb results in the fetus’s death only if his condition is such that he cannot survive on his own, the act that would count as initiating the fatal sequence should be the act that led to its being the case that the fetus had this condition. Let us suppose that the fetus dies after it has been removed because its lungs are insufficiently developed to breathe on its own. Then whatever caused the fetus to have such poorly developed lungs at this point in time is what initiated the fatal sequence. And since it is presumably part of the normal course of things that a fetus at an early stage of gestation has lungs of this level of development, the act which causally led to this state of affairs was simply the act of conceiving it in the first place. This means that removing the fetus from the womb does not initiate the fatal sequence of events but merely allows the death to occur, which would have occurred in any event once conception had occurred if the woman had not been sheltering the fetus. Dr. Boonin has you covered fam. Page 188 https://ethicslab.georgetown.edu/phil553/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2015/01/David-Boonin-A-Defense-of-Abortion.pdf https://ethicslab.georgetown.edu/phil553/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2015/01/David-Boonin-A-Defense-of-Abortion.pdf Page 19
I really enjoyed listening to this. Trent Horn does a great job of defending the pro-life position. Because the video is almost 2 hours long, I recommend that it be watched in short 10-20 minute portions at a time.
Thanks for this. Trent Horn does an excellent job in representing his beliefs. It is great to hear him on Catholic Answers.
I agree. He's my favourite pro-life speaker because he always explains himself so well and does it in such a polite and civilized way.
I'm a huge fan of Trent Horn too, but I really fee like Boonin one this debate.
I was at this debate! Good stuff.

Tennessee is a great state.

... ... "Choice."
Always fun when the "pro-choice" side offers less options than the pro-life side.
Pro-The-Only-Choice-You-Will-Need-In-Order-To-Be-A-Successful-Woman. This was exactly the same argument used by the Supremes in Casey VS PP.
I can't tell if you're pro-choice or pro-life, but I can say this:  forcing people to murder others for convenience, or murdering for convenience, is extremely evil.

Could some share their experiences protesting abortion clinics? Are protesters yelling or threatening those going into the clinics to have an abortion?

So I  would like to read some pro-life books, conservative books in general really which focus on prolife and other "starter" issues (if that make any sense).Besides that I've been getting a lot of mean comments and messages since I've posted here. I'm not surprised but I'm disappointed and a little sad.
For basic pro-life apologetics, I recommend Scott Klusendorf's The Case for Life.  For a fascinating memoir on the history of the pro-life movement in America, I recommend Abandoned by Monica Migliorino Miller, it reads like a novel imo.
The second one sounds right up my alley!
Then you might also enjoy Unplanned by Abby Johnson, about how she left her old job as director of a Planned Parenthood and joined the pro-life movement.
Now that sound excellent!
Persuasive Pro-Life: How to Talk about Our Culture's Toughest Issue by Trent Horn and Frank Pavone I'm sorry to hear about the messages by the way. Some people just suck that way.
Thank you! I will definitely look into that book!

"Abortions are bad m'kay" isn't really a viable platform. Even in Oklahoma.

It's so cringy to watch because I generally find John Oliver pretty funny, but watching him say that stuff is just painful. He sounds so ridiculous. I pretty much only agree with Crowder on abortion so when he does videos like this, I love it. Edit clingy to cringy. think I'm just gonna stop using Reddit on mobile.
I enjoy watching Crowder and his "change my mind series" even if he does have some faulty logic. Beyond that I have no use for Steven Crowder. I believe that an association with him tarnishes the very issue he is attempting to support.
This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.

And that's just the ones we know are female, right? Wouldn't there be more that would have been to under developed to tell?
Abortion has historically alway been anti-female birth. If you want women to have rights, first give them the right to be born.
Makes sense.

This will be hugely important in pro-life crisis aid.

That sounds like an excuse he invented after already deciding not to pay. Dude owes at least $356,857. Of that tax money, somewhere around $8 could reasonably have been expected to be funding abortions. Seems pretty convenient that his form of protesting abortion also saves him almost a half million dollars.
Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's.
This senate race in 2018 could decide who will control the Senate so we have to go ALL OUT to win it! Here's how YOU can help:Volunteer: We need people on the ground making sure voters turnout and you can help even if you're from another state (by travelling here or phone banking), more info here - https://www.kevincramer.org/volunteer/Donating: At the moment Heidi is leading in fundraising and has been given millions by radical pro abortion organizations. Kevin needs YOUR help to bridge this gap and you can do so here - https://www.kevincramer.org/contribute/Keep informed: You can keep informed of the latest campaign news here - https://twitter.com/kevincramerVoting: Perhaps the most important job of all! Make sure you get out to vote on November 6th 2018! If you need to register to vote then see here: https://vote.gov/Absentee: If you're serving in the military or aren't able to make it to election day for ANY reason see here for absentee ballots: https://www.fvap.gov/
This is the lady who also high fived Chuck Schumer to celebrate defeating the 20 week abortion ban. She's broken every single one of her promises to support moderate legislation on abortion and to oppose public funding for it.
You might have mentioned what state...
North Dakota, which really needs a pro-life alternative to Cramer, because otherwise it's basically 2016 on a smaller scale:  someone staunchly pro-abortion against one of Trump's biggest fanboys in Congress.  As a North Dakota resident, I have no desire to vote for either of them.
Filing date has passed (so no one new can enter the race). Kevin Cramer is the only candidate in the race who is pro life (votes with NRLC 100% of the time and with Planned Parenthood 0% of the time).

I'm rather uncomfortable with the idea.  Certainly, many drug addicts will make poor parents, and certainly make poor decisions that could result in unplanned pregnancies, miscarriages, and abortions. On the other hand, someone in that mindset is not making good long term decisions.  And sterilization is a very long term decision to make when you're strung out, looking for cash and someone is offering you money. This feels like another case of trying to eliminate potential problems instead of solving them the hard way.  In many ways, it is a less horrendous action that still has the same thought process as many abortion supporters: "These people can't be trusted to have sex or take care of anyone, so let's prevent them from even being able to conceive.  We'll pay them, so it appears like it is their choice, but we all know they will take it, because they're poor, looking to score, and it means they can continue to have no responsibility."
I'm also against it.  The choice should be made freely.  The idea of performing surgery on somebody who is being paid to have it makes my skin crawl.
This idea reeks of eugenics a la California sterilizing all those people back in the early 1900s.
Idk what sterilization has to do with abortion. I'm okay with voluntary sterilization because it has nothing to do with killing human beings. Something like this, though, I don't think it's up for us to decide what kinds of people get to reproduce. I think we should further criminalize doing drugs while pregnant so that no child has to experience that. But to remove their ability to have children forever because of their current situation? What?
I think if people want to be sterilized they should have the option to do so for free (after counseling) but not paid because then there is a money incentive versus simply the individual actual desire. Most abortions are the same way, women don't really want to terminate but their financial situation is a major contributing factor.
As long as it's voluntary and not paid by the government I see nothing wrong with it. I'd even say it sounds like a good idea, but part of me feels there's gotta be some unintended consequence that'll spring up down the line.
This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.
I realize this program is not without controversy, but I suppose it would indirectly prevent a considerable number of abortions.
I would feel more comfortable about the sterilization as long as the doctor was aware the addict is getting paid, and can do some sort of neuro/cognitive exam before anything is signed.  I personally don't have a problem with addicts getting paid to be on contraception, since it isn't usually permanent.  Relapse statistics aren't so great: "Recent estimates from clinical treatment studies suggest that more than two thirds of individuals relapse within weeks to months of initiating treatment" https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3674771/#R2 My guess is that exhausted grandparents in their 70s raising drug-exposed grandchildren with more on the way would feel differently about this program than people who have never had to take care of drug-exposed babies 24/7, but that's just my take on it.
I am reluctant on this as where I live doctors have been caught pushing sterilization on woman when they are not in a state to make such serious decisions.
I was voluntarily sterilized.  I have no cognitive or addiction issues, so I don't think the doctor ever questioned that.  What I can say is I don't recall any formal mental status exam at the consult, asking "who is the current president" sort of thing, and it's not in the notes either.  Doctor just asked why I'm getting it done, am I sure my family is complete, etc etc.  I could see how a drug addict could sign up for sterilization and possibly not be thinking clearly, and the  doctor could miss it.
There is something really dark about using people’s desperation for money as a means to sterilize them.

For those not in the know: a baby box is a safe, heated location for a mother to surrender her infant, no questions asked. The box will page a first responder so they can care for the infant until DCS can come for the child. God bless this mother for making the decision to choose life!
I am glad these types of places exist. I am not sure how common they are but I hope people know that they exist.
It's sad that we need them but it's great that they're an option.
wow, this is strange I had no idea that this existed. A little shocked that it is very literally a black box, couldn’t they have made it at least look more comforting? The design just makes me uneasy
This morning I ran across a post about abortion in a women's sub. I admit I don't know much about the actual act, I can't get pregnant so I never felt the need to delve into it. Anyway, I had asked if there were any reliable numbers regarding how many abortions a year were performed in the U.S.And this is where the stupid shows up. I honestly thought that way there would be 25,000 a year, maybe 50,000. I was really, really wrong. Per the CDC there were 652,000+. I looked back and saw that for a decade plus there were a million plus every single year. I honestly had no idea.I don't know what to with this. I don't know why it's so many. I'm just really sad right now.
The leading cause of death is abortion.
actually it’s probably miscarriage.  The miscarriage rate is between 30% and 50%.  By comparison, in 2014 there were 186 abortions per 1000 live births.  This means the mathematical maximum abortion rate was only 15.6% (and this DOESN’T include the miscarriages)
Miscarriage Miscarriage, also known as spontaneous abortion and pregnancy loss, is the natural death of an embryo or fetus before it is able to survive independently. Some use the cutoff of 20 weeks of gestation, after which fetal death is known as a stillbirth. The most common symptom of a miscarriage is vaginal bleeding with or without pain. Sadness, anxiety and guilt often occur afterwards. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
Hmm you're probably right.
Do you have a source I could cite for this, please?
So the CDC doesn't track abortions as deaths, but here they track deaths in the USA: https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/products/databriefs/db293.htm Heart disease is #1 on the list and kills 630,000 per year: https://www.cdc.gov/dhdsp/data_statistics/fact_sheets/fs_heart_disease.htm But, as you cited, there are 652,000+ abortions each year, so there are more abortions than the #1 cause of death in the United States.
Oh I didn't think of that! Thank you for posting it out for me. That's completely unacceptable.
Thanks for posting this!
But miscarriages are about on parity with abortions for fetal deaths, and will likely overtake abortion in the short term. So, would you feel comfortable saying that miscarriages are the leading cause of death?
If they are, then yes, why wouldn't I?
Do you think we should invest the most money in preventing miscarriages then? Since they are the leading cause of death?
Of course, why wouldn't I? That would equate to better prenatal care and women's healthcare. Unfortunately, some miscarriages are unavoidable, but with continued research we can help more people.
The most money? More than for research on preventing heart disease or cancer?
My friend, it seems like you have an agenda you're trying to push or your trying to entrap me. It seems like you don't have an entirely honest intention in this conversation so I'm going to stop responding now.
You've misunderstood me. I am genuinely curious. I see these memes a lot claiming that abortion is the number one cause of death, and the memes always leave out miscarriages. However, they're quick to claim that abortion deserves more attention than guns, cancer, car accidents, etc as abortion results in more death. I wanted to find out why miscarriages are left out of these lists. Is it because it would undermine the point somehow? If so, how would it?
The biggest difference is that the overwhelming majority of those miscarriages cited occur so early that the women weren't even aware that they were pregnant, and they happened because there was something wrong with the embryo or the intrauterine environment that prevented the pregnancy from progressing normally. The other causes of death you have mentioned are things that can be prevented or mitigated in some way by lifestyle changes, or medical treatments, or policy changes, but the only way to meaningfully reduce miscarriage rates would be to ensure that defective eggs or sperm are never involved in fertilization or that the initial stages of development always happen perfectly with no problems. These are things we just can't control, no matter how much money you wanted to throw at it. If you want a more accurate comparison, most miscarriages are more analogous to dying in your sleep of old age. The body is not capable of supporting life any longer, and it's not within our power to circumvent. I've heard doctors say that fetal development is so complex, with so many opportunities for error, that it's a miracle it ever works at all. Elective, induced abortion is in no way, shape, or form on par with miscarriage. They are as different as a person dying of old age and a person being shot in an alley for their wallet.
I know the other person already basically said this, but I do think it boils down to preventability. We know ways to prevent things like heart disease, cancer, and in the most literal sense we know how to prevent abortions (ie, don't have them). But preventing a miscarriage is something we don't really know as much how to do. Studying it would be great, though, of course. I dunno about most money, but researching the issue would be a priority. It's just not as high a priority as stopping abortion because we have a better idea of how to not abort babies.
It's apparently quite perilous getting into the world. Not to mention the people who are technically pregnant and miscarry and never know they are pregnant.
Source?
http://time.com/4144897/birth-rate-abortion-miscarriage/
https://www.reddit.com/r/prolife/comments/8bqcp5/comment/dx9lx42?st=JFX22FEL&sh=f4de2642
There's a reason the pro-abortion side doesn't shout the numbers. The thing is, as long as people in the middle on the issue think it's a really rare issue, they stay in the middle and don't get active. It's the same issue with the circumstances. These are two studies, one of which is from guttenmacher, an abortion advocacy group(they do some other things): http://www.johnstonsarchive.net/policy/abortion/abreasons.html https://www.guttmacher.org/sites/default/files/pdfs/pubs/psrh/full/3711005.pdf You'll see that, though the statistics don't entirely agree, the reasons women are seeking abortions are rarely the reasons people tend to cite in defense of it, ie. rape, incest, health concerns both for themselves and the child. What would you guess is the total percentage of those 4 instances? The AGI survey suggests that all of them together are the primary reason for choosing abortion in less than 8% of instances, with rape and incest accounting for around .5% of all instances. So that argument that we need abortion because of rape and incest, as well as for health concerns, 92% of abortions don't apply. Interestingly enough, that leaves 50,000 abortions per the CDC that were obtained for the reasons most cited by people in the middle of the debate as the reason it should be legal. So, I would say, if you're not looking to leap onto the pro-life side, consider looking at the 92% of abortions that are due to economic insecurity, family pressure, and just plain disinterest. Those are the places where headway can be made with anyone outside of the most hard line abortion supporters.
Thank you for your thoughtful response. It gives me something to bounce off of. :)
No problem. I firmly believe the more people look at the facts of abortion, the less likely they are to just support it completely. Raising questions is always a good thing.
Yes I agree. Question everything.
The crazy thing to me is that we really don't know how many abortions there are per year. The CDC keeps an actual count but reporting is voluntary (California, the most populous state that also has a high abortion rate per capita doesn't report at all) and other states (like NJ and DC) report less than half of the abortions that occur within their borders. Guttmacher's numbers are therefore considered more accurate, but they are basically estimates and not an actual count of the abortions since they rely on voluntary surveys of abortion clinics (many of which don't respond to them) along with the CDC's numbers to reach an estimate.
That's nuts. Why would that be allowed? Aren't doctors and clinics mandatory reporters for others things like diabetes, heart diseases, STIs?
I always think about the movies Apocalypto or The 300 and the piles of bodies sacrificed. We've become a screwed up society that sacrifices our unborn for the sake of a few thousand dollars a year.
And that few thousand dollars is an investment toward our future that won't be paying us back. Fiscal growth rates are pretty firmly tied to birth rates. We're literally not just killing our children, but our economy with them, all for the sake of women's "choice."
There are countries already feeling the effects of this. There will come a point where we will have to ask ourself where the fuck did our generation go?  Fewer people means fewer paying into economy, fewer people means fewer workers, fewer people means going backwards. Not saying everyone should breed like rabbits but, can we at least hope for replacement level?
Unfortunately, it's only going to get worse. Population projections show we're going to top off around 9 or 10 billion people in 40 or 50 years, and then the number's going to start going down. People stop having kids when life gets too comfortable. It's the "beautiful ones" experiment writ large.
I did some number crunching a few years ago now. By using the Withdrawal Method, Avoiding Sex whilst the female is most fertile and using any other form of contraception pill, condoms, IUD you reduce the chances of getting pregnant down to 1/125,000 women per year. Assuming EVERY single woman on the planet could get pregnant, none of them wanted too AND everyone of them took used these 3 methods whilst not wanting a baby and ya know... took responsibility for their actions Abortion rates WORLD WIDE would be 28,000. Real rates taking into account prepubescent and post-menopausal women and those who are trying for children would be <10,000 IMO. Now, whilst I consider myself Prolife, If this was the case then I could be onside with Legal Abortion. The aborter did what they could to avoid the pregnancy and birth control failed them. A RARE unfortunate occurrence. That is not the case at the moment.
The problem is that, no matter how you get them, children aren't "birth control failure".  They're humans, and if you mistakenly ended up with one, that's not great, but people need to be responsible, do what it takes so that it can at least enjoy its existence, and then put it up for adoption or something if you don't want the baby. Sex is great and all, but its the literal process of human reproduction when you go about it in a way that even has a chance of getting someone pregnant.  People need to understand the risks vs. rewards.
So much pro life, pro choice,  so little pro adoption/fostering. A big problem no side talks about is how almost everyone in the US feels they are entitled to a child. The government really does nothing to encourage adoption /fostering and neither do most churches. Most government/church funded "homes" are desperately underfunded,  "christian" billionaires have enough money to fund this but GL with that. The abortion epidemic will continue as long as so many children continue to be brought up in poverty and abusive homes.
Yes we do! I would wager there are more pro-lifers adopting than any others. Let me know if I'm wrong.
I actually would agree with you on that, pro life people do tend to adopt more. Great, but that's still not nearly enough. Most pro life people would rather have a genetic baby still.
But that wouldn't explain why there are 36 times more couples waiting for a baby than babies being born, and also most kids in foster care are not adoptable because they are waiting to go back into the care of relatives. Either way, I don't necessarily disagree with you. We need to let pregnant women who would otherwise abort that adoption is a better option. Edit a letter
That and a sense of responsibility needs to be instilled in people again. If you lay down, you know what can happen. People need to make better choices.
Management and streamlining is the issue. Thousands of people would need to be hired to oversee the long and labor intensive adoption process.
What about women and men just doing life right in the first place? One person's child is no one else's responsibility but the parents. We need to be looking at the pose morals of people bringing children into the world they can't take care of or simply won't. Adoption is not a fix to this problem.
What does that mean "doing life right?" Who decides that?
Anyone with firm values in place. It's pretty horrifically irresponsible to cop out of responsibility just because one doesn't like the consequences. If you lay down with someone and come back up pregnant or got someone pregnant, that is your sole responsibility. To abort is the ultimate selfishness and demonstrates a huge lack of concern for self and others. We're adults here. Being an adult means taking responsibility for your actions. You can't whine and kill your way out of situations you don't like when you out yourself in those situations in the first place. Doing life right means respecting yourself and others enough to create a secure environment suitable for child rearing or simply not have sex at all. People need to grow up and realize that actions have consequences and face them. Gotta come to the real world.
Wow. I agree with the whole consequences thing but DAMN. You really need to get off your high horse. I'm assuming bootstraps is a word you use frequently. What is a secure environment for children? Are you talking about financially secure? What about people who were financially secure and then had something horrible happen to them. Not everything is in everyone's control. Abortion is absolutely abhorrent, but so is the idea that there's a "right way" to do life.
I'm so sorry for implying that people need to take responsibility for their actions and positions in life lol Resilience is key and those that choose to be less than excellent allowed themselves to wallow too long in their own issues. Secure DOES mean financially. It means taking the time to build a true bond with someone before creating a WHOLE HUMAN. That means establishing commitment. That means having stable employment and back up plans in case things DO go south. All I see is excuse after excuse from people on abortion. "They can't afford a kid. They can't this. They can't that." Then do NOT go out and create another life. Simple. If you cannot provide for yourself and another life, you have business pursuing such a thing until you can. I apologize for being a woman that gives a damn about the well being of my future offspring and working hard to put myself in a position to take care of them. These are not small things to do. We are talking about human beings that need to be brought up in circumstances that are favorable for them and I know I cannot do that right now as a college student. That is why I'm not an idiot and am building a true foundation with secure employment down the line, a nest egg I've been building, and waiting for the proper man to come along and marry. THAT is doing life right and I desperately want children one day. But I've made a promise to myself that if I cannot at LEAST financially take care of them if a marriage falls apart one day, I will NOT reproduce then. If you disagree with this, then we have nothing to truly discuss as you seem to be the type to want other people to fix things in life for you and make excuses instead of being resilient. Good luck to ya!
Ok brb going to my husband to remind him to be more resilient. You see, he thought he did life right too! He went to college, spent 6 years working his ass off at a great school, had a backup plan and we started a family....and then life took a dump on his head. That's when he realized that he isn't like everyone else. We finally found out what was wrong with him. He has a debilitating incurable barely treatable condition that renders him incapable of staying awake almost every second of the day. Now, I'm aalllll for personal responsibility, but when I hear people like you spout shit about just needing resilience and hard work and will power to succeed, I go fucking insane. You have no fucking clue how life works, or how anything works for that matter. Resilience only works when you have the tools and abilities necessary. Take those tools and abilities away and you get a 30 year old restaurant manager working his ass off because he is physically incapable of doing any job that requires sitting or standing still. I hope you graduate from college and have your whole life ripped out from under you so you can finally stop spewing shit about resilience. Yeah, I'm petty like that.
You'll always reap what you sow and if bitterness is all you can muster, that is all you'll ever get in life. I wish you and your family all the best because I couldn't imagine going through watching my spouse in horrible condition. I pray he heals and you all get through it.

You're a very nasty person. God bless you.

That child is everyone's responsibility. If that child ever leaves the house and grows up it is going to be responsible for things outside the parents control. If an abusive and neglectful parent raises a child the child is not going to be as beneficial to society at large and might actually take more than it gives. If you want to fix some of these morals, try wrapping it up and use  birth control. It costs a lot of money to pay for a child, and expecting a family that's living in poverty or close to it to care for several children with minimal outside help, while at the same time encouraging them to have more kids is insane. Kids can make the middle class join the poor very quickly in this country , work on those issues. Adoption is a great help and the adoption system needs to be fixed and streamlined. A great aspect of it is that it helps insure the parents are actually decent people who are able to support children, it's the wild west for bio parents. People need to stop treating children like property
Adoption and foster parenting are very near and dear to my heart.
While I agree that adoptions should be improved, and resources increased for that issue, not everyone who has an abortion does so because of the lack of adoption facilities. The reality is that they don't even want to be pregnant, so ultimately, adoption improvements may help a little bit, but I don't think most women are worried that they will find a home for their baby when it is born, they're afraid that they won't be able to deal with the pregnancy to getting it to that point, or they just don't even want to deal with it in the first place.
Well there's a lot of people in the US.

I see what you mean. I can't have kudxr. I think I would have been a good mom. It's hard sometimes to think about.
"Arbiet Macht Frei"
As a jew I really don't appreciate this. I know what you're trying to say, but it's simply not the same.
Well the reality of the situation is, this is no different. This is our modern Holocaust.
No, it's not. It's on the same level, but it's not the same. Please don't compare anything to the shoah, it lessens it
I honestly mean no disrespect to the shoah. Just pointing out genocide, that's all.


An incredible story.  She focused on how she had been immersed in the pro-choice viewpoint until after the abortion.  My only problem with her outlook is her inability to recognize the problem started when she began a relationship with a man without plotting out the possibilities.  Having said that she was aware of how her decisions were her own and I'm glad to have read this story.

What kind of reaction are they getting on campus? I am always interested to hear how open a campus is to pro-life advocates.
So far so good, mostly individual people having discussions with them. Apparently there is a speech later tonight about how Planned Parenthood takes advantage of young women and ANTIFA is supposed to riot and shut it down.

The victim photos work, my dude.
Oh please. It's for attention nothing more. It's exactly what PETA does.
No, it isn't. Most people are aware animals are suffering, so what Peta does is for shock value. Most people bury their heads in the sand about abortion and say "it's just a clump of cells". This is to prove them wrong.
And guess what? People still eat meat. People still get abortions. Go have a read of a two x thread about abortion. They're not talking about how it's just a clump of cells, they're talking about why they got one. It's about the choice of the person who is getting an abortion for them, not the size of the fetus.
"have a read of a two x thread" No thanks. That's about as biased a source you can provide. I have no interest in reading a sub where I was banned for participating in subs they don't like. There is no situation where there is a "choice" or "why they got one" that makee abortion not murder.
I'm not suggesting you read a scientific paper from the bright minds of two x. I'm saying go have a look at what they really think.
I have before, and it's nothing but toxic. It's an echo chamber of disturbing ideas. Nothing useful can be found there. Inb4 "isn't that what r/prolife is?!?!?1??*

This breaks my heart..
I support their right to free speech, but I don't think images like this are respectful to unborn children or effective for changing minds. Most people would just say, "Oh, it's those prolife wackos again" and turn away so they don't have to see gross, bloody photos. Perhaps a demonstration of prenatal development would be more effective. Unborn children have their own circulatory system and DNA, the heart starts beating around 5 weeks, we can detect brainwaves at 8 weeks, etc. That would really get people thinking, unborn children are human beings just like us.
I prefer to equate these pictures to pictures of the holocaust. Those pictures are gruesome and horrible and they shock people into understanding the grotesque nature of what was happening in those death camps. These pictures serve the same purpose but for people in the womb.
I agree. Gory and disturbing photos of holocaust victims are shown in museums and other private places, but they aren't generally put on giant signs in public places, because that would be disrespectful.
The German public was forced to view those photos after the war. Today genociding Jews is no longer legal or widely supported, so there is no point in showing those photos in public.
I disagree. I think we need to use shocking imagery to force people to confront the stark reality of just what abortion is.
Fair enough. But if I'm dismembered in a gruesome accident, please don't put photos of my bloody naked body on giant signs in public places, for any reason.
If I'm ever dismembered because most of society doesn't consider me a human being and the law determines i can be killed therfore, i hereby volunteer my broken bloodied body to be shown to whoever will acknowledge its existence.
Good for you, but count me out.
I don't see how it would be disrespectful?
It's a picture of a dismembered body of a human being. A lot of people think it's disrespectful to the deceased to put a photo of their dismembered body on a poster in public.
A lot of the same people like to call said deceased being a parasite
That's fair.  I guess I was assuming a relative approved the use of the photo.
I agree with this.
I think what they do is effective. I think people need to see reality and a college or university setting is an appropriate place to do it. I don’t think it disrespects the child. I think it acknowledges them as a victim and validates their existence.
For mobile and non-RES users | More info | -1 to Remove | Ignore Sub
A lot of people arguing in here about the point/efficacy of this. I think intuitively it makes sense that showing people the reality of abortion would help change minds. But does it actually do that? Are there any stats? In my experience, prochoicers respond to these with both disbelief and annoyance. They think pro-lifers are liars who are showing fake pictures or pictures of later-term miscarriages or whatever and claiming it's x week abortion. In that case I don't see how this will do anything but make people more annoyed with/less likely to listen to pro-lifers. I'd be happy to be wrong, but this is what I see.
That's also how I see it. We should be changing minds with facts, not just pissing people off.
Every prolife fact pisses them off. These pictures are a perfect example.
Gory photos aren't facts.
This is not the way to go about convincing people to join your side.
Just like how we shouldn't be showing pictures of the Syrian Civil War because it's disrespectful to the people over there? Sometimes people need to be pulled out of their comfort zones and face reality for what it is.
It's college, they're old enough to see the truth.

A lot of people don’t realize that a 10-week abortion is like this though. I think it’s very graphic but I think people need to know what they are being a proponent of. And if they are still o.k. with it, then they need to work on some things.

Apparently the widely publicized claim that Texas' maternal mortality rose (and was highest in the developed world) from cutting Planned Parenthood was based on erroneous data, which had reported 38.4 deaths per 100,000 live births in 2012, when the real rate was 14.6. Still too high but good news that it isn't as high as believed. There's also a really interesting article embedded in this one that I really recommend reading: https://www.propublica.org/article/how-many-american-women-die-from-causes-related-to-pregnancy-or-childbirth I had no idea the collection of maternal mortality data in the US was so poor. Basically, in order to fix the problem of maternal death underreporting, some states introduced a checkbox on death certificates to indicate if the woman was pregnant, recently pregnant, or recently given birth. This improved underreporting but also led to a lot of "false positives" where deaths not related to pregnancy/childbirth were classified as maternal mortality. This desperately needs an overhaul.

For those secular pro-lifers (and plenty of others), I am not sure that putting your life at risk because you have a dream of your daughter's face sounds like a great idea. This will always be one of the hardest ones to convince me on, when the mother's life is on the line.
I am aghast (but not really surprised) that doctors would suggest abortion for placenta previa.  It does carry a risk of hemorrhage but labor does.  It is not anything that put Mrs Alamuddin's health at risk any more than a normal pregnancy, really, as it's something that quite often resolves on its own throughout the course of the pregnancy--worst case scenario is a surgical birth. Placenta previa is not the same as placenta accreta, which does carry a huge risk for the mother.  Previa is simply the placenta being placed so that it partially or fully covers the cervix.  Placenta accreta is where the placenta grows through the uterine wall and into the abdominal cavity, sometimes attaching to other abdominal organs.  Current standard of care for accreta seems to be surgical delivery as early as is safe for the baby (I'm talking 32 or 33 weeks).
Now that's a mother: putting her health at risk for her child.
Wonder if Amal is pro-life who am I  kidding

I'm on spring break, so I can't really make a statement here.
I'm already graduated. :(

I just don't think they're comparable issues. I don't know anyone that believes we should be allowed to murder migrants.
Exactly. The pope just basically said that if we don't allow everyone, regardless of where they were born, equal access to every country's amenities, then we're guilty of murder. That's not biblical. That's not logical. That's nonsense. If I were to travel to England, and had to go to the hospital, I would expect to have to pay my medical bills. I never paid into their system. I'm not a subject of the crown. Why would I be treated as one?
Actually, showing kindness to travelers and strangers in your land is required Biblically. In the UK, you would also receive medical services much cheaper than (e.g.) in the States even tho you have not paid for them with your taxes (if you are an American). A similar thing happens in Canada: break your leg while you are there and they will treat you as they want to be treated.
Showing kindness is one thing. Travelers to ancient Israel were not given citizenship, though. They had a separate dictum of laws they had to follow. The same goes for the US. People are allowed to come in and work with government approval. They have a set of laws they have to follow while they're here. Biblical law did not call for open borders. It especially didn't require the admission of criminals and those hostile to Israel
Mhm. And what about a traveling, homeless carpenter-turned-prophet in the New Testament? I'm assuming that someone like that wouldn't deserve citizenship either.
In the parable of the Good Samaritan, the traveller is checked into an inn by the Samaritan, he isn’t taken into his home. We have an obligation to help those in need to the best of our ability. Helping those in need doesn’t mean taking them into your home, or your country. For those looking for an authentic explanation of Catholic teaching on this I would recommend reading St Thomas Aquinas in his Summa Theologica
And what about all that "If anyone asks for your shirt, give him your tunic as well" stuff? What would he have to say about immigrants?
Jesus wouldn't come to the US looking for citizenship. He'd come as a King. Now, if you're insinuating we treat people crossing the border illegally like they were Jesus, a la "the least of these," we're not obligated, or even expected, to give food to the thief breaking into our house, even if he was only looking for someplace to sleep. If someone broke into your house, and demanded a bed, would you be acting unChristlike to refuse it and kick them out? Of course not! The very idea is absurd! But that's exactly what you're expecting of the US and its citizens.
Oh, I would guess that Christians should love their enemies and give their belongings to those who persecute them. That's somewhere in the Bible, isn't it...?
Loving my enemies doesn't mean letting murderers and thieves go unpunished. You're seriously twisting scripture. The Bible never says "give your belongings to those who persecute you." It says to pray for them. You're thinking of Jesus' teaching that says to give your shirt to the Roman soldier who demands your cloak. Do you know what that really means? It means go above and beyond to follow the laws of the land you live in. Citizens of Judea were obligated to provide Roman soldiers with whatever they were asked to. No law has been passed requiring me to provide shelter or finance illegal immigrants. In fact, such a law would violate the constitution. One more thing: illegal immigrants are not my enemy. Not any more than shoplifters, drug addicts, people who speed or anyone else who violates the law. I have no problem loving any of these people while also believing that earthly laws should be enforced against them. I don't go into prisons, demanding they be released. I don't fight to overturn the laws that require they pay a penalty for their crimes. It is not loving to let evil go without consequence. If a parent raises a child without punishing their wrong behavior, that's not showing that child love. Quite the opposite. It's ensuring they'll have a miserable life, unable to connect with anyone. Children from homes that don't punish end up entitled, vapid, purposeless and miserable. Love can forgive. Love is lenient. But love also guides and punishes as necessary. Since you're not a Christian (and your statements have made it very clear you're not), maybe you should avoid trying to teach Biblical doctrine to those who actually follow the faith. You're only making yourself look foolish.
Sorry, so are you saying that the Romans didn't persecute Christians?! And if what you are saying is true about obeying the law, then if the law changed to give your home to an immigrant, you would do it?! This is shocking stuff. Also, not sure why you're talking about this punishment stuff since it's irrelevant. Exactly. Oh wow, you are an outrageously rude and cruel person in addition to being flagrantly and willfully ignorant. I'm an Anabaptist and Quaker.
It's not cruel to call a spade a spade. You might claim the titles "Anabaptist" and "Quaker," but if you believe Jesus was a prophet, as you clearly stated you did, you're no Christian. A prophet speaks for God. Christians believe Jesus is God. He didn't become anything. He said I AM. Call me all the names you want, but don't call yourself Christian if you don't believe essential doctrines. In the United States, where I live, it's against the highest laws of the land for the government to require you to open up your home to anyone. So, no, I wouldn't quarter anyone in my home, because that would be the government violating the law. Here, the government is subject to the people, and not the other way around. Punishment is not irrelevant. Illegal immigrants broke the law to come to the US. They didn't claim asylum. They didn't apply for citizenship. They broke the law, and are continuing to willfully disobey it. For that, they should be given a one-way ticket back to their home country. Paul claimed his rights as a Roman citizen. Thus, he acknowledged that governing authorities have at least some authority to dictate rights and privileges of citizens. Show me a single scripture where Paul advocated for everyone to be granted the right of Roman citizens under Roman government, and I'll gladly cede the argument to you.

In some cases, however, refusing asylum to migrants can lead to their deaths.  There are economic migrants like many Mexicans/Latins, but there are also people who are running away from places like Syria where they could easily be gassed by the Assad regime, or hit by airstrikes from Russians, or even killed by indiscriminate fire from rebel forces. I'm not a big fan of letting migrants enter the country willy-nilly either, and I think they need to work to assimilate, but I think the Pope's point was that protecting migrants should not be completely discarded in the name of only protecting the unborn.  Catholics should have a strong bias towards the disadvantaged of every type and sometimes Conservative politics can seem very keen on protecting one group and completely miss other groups. Mind you, that does not have to mean some sort of socialism.  And I think there would be less calls for government mandates if people were able to band together without the need for government force to generate funds and deal with issues.  I would very much like to see Conservative groups come up with strong solutions that do not require government intervention and force behind them.
Unfortunately, that's not how migrants are treated along the Mexico–United States border between roving militias and those who deliberately make it more perilous to cross.
Um, no we didn't? Also, not every pro-lifer cares what the Pope says. I am Jewish, so his words mean nothing to me. Atheist Pro-lifers also wouldn't really care. Neither would protestants. But that's irrelevant because most of us DO care about protecting born people. When did we dismiss it?
True but your explanations are irrelevant: I'm Anabaptist and Quaker and I care about what he says. There are citations in the article. Did you read it?
Yes, and all I get from that is Pro-Lifers didn't dismiss it, some random people who are nothing to me did.
The pro-life movement is associated with conservatism and these are some prominent conservative voices. You may not be a conservative and these may not represent your views but it's pretty reasonable barometer.
Well when you have an article with a title that misleading and where the people reading it lump together all pro-lifers, its just fuel to say "hey look see! Pro-lifers DONT care about born people, hurr durr!" It makes us all look bad. Edit: ALSO, conservatives and pro-lifers aren't the same thing, just because conservatives tend to also be pro-life.
Agreed, I'm not a conservative. Again, not sure how the title is misleading, tho.
If you want to decrease the number of abortions occurring while abortion is legal, decreasing the rate of poverty is an important one. Sex education is also an important area that has been shown to decrease the number of unwanted pregnancies. How does one disagree with this? All life is important be it the unborn or the born. The fact that many social justice issues are tied to decreasing unwanted pregnancies and therefore abortions, I would say social justice issues are very important.
We don't disagree with it. Some people, with whom I don't agree politically, just disagree on how we should help them. Something something bootstraps, Idk. I know why people feel like they don't care, but its not that simple.
That is a fair point. It is easy to get forget, like I have, that we often agree on the goal but disagree on how to get their.
From what you wrote in your comment we specifically probably don't disagree, but you got the point. It still doesn't stop me from occasionally accusing other pro-lifers of not caring before I realize I am doing it again.
I agree with decreasing poverty on the whole but it's not as correlated with abortion as a lot of people believe. In the US many states with the highest rates of poverty have the lowest abortion rates and vice versa.
Also, "social justice" is originally a Catholic concept.

Problem is when you argue with someone who will not believe it's a human either at birth or some random amount of time until birth.
I was born at about 26 weeks. The argument I wasn’t a human at birth is one I’ve had. Like what the hell?!? I wasn’t human until some arbitrary time after birth.,.
It's ridiculous. Technically we aren't fully grown until our 20s. Using their argument, I could say a toddler isn't a human because it's not fully developed.
You're not kidding when you say random.  One group of people say that life begins when the baby can survive outside the womb.  Traditionally that was about 7 mo.  The problem is that the advance of neonatal care has apparently redefined "life". Faced with this conundrum, some critical thinkers adopt the view that the mother has to want the baby before it becomes alive.  Until then he is "a collection of cells".  I find that to be a leap of faith at best. If you hold this view that mothers are the arbiters of life, and some eastern religions do, then you must acknowledge that by that justification infanticide is morally acceptable.
Unfortunately the baby will never survive outside the womb without the outside intervention of another human. So abortion is legal until like, age seven or something then.
This is why the legality of abortion is not, and should not be, a political issue.  Either life begins at conception, or some time afterwards.  No matter what your political beliefs, if a fetus is a person, then it's wrong to kill it.  If a fetus is not a person, then it's wrong to prevent a woman from killing it.  All arguments that say otherwise are tenuous at best.  You can take that starting premise of when life begins, apply it to any political framework, and you will arrive at the same conclusion. Being pro-life or pro-choice is not a political position any more than Pre-Med is a major or sprinkles are an ice cream flavor.
I'm pretty sure this is an old flyer the group doesn't use anymore. The current one is better (it's the top bookmarked picture on their facebook, so just scroll down a tiny bit) New Wave Feminists is actually awesome, regardless of that paragraph about clubbing lol. Check them out. Edit: added name of group
You are right, the newer one is more shareable. I’ll make sure to post that one too if no one beats me to it.
That is fantastic
The part about the club seemed needlessly condescending.
They go on to explain that 99% of the time the two people consented, I think they added the club part to dramatize that fact a little bit. Where they got their #’s from I don’t know
It just sounds like slut shaming though, in fact it is slut shaming. It adds nothing and implies that that behavior by itself is a poor decision, it also has nothing to do with consent. Doesn't make any sense if you replace that with something generally accepted as good behavior? "She wasn't the one staying up all night studying, caring for her boyfriend, or going on dates" That sounds as completely non-sensical as what the poster says, unless the poster is slut shaming.
I see it more as “you wanna go out and have fun and have reckless sex? Great! But if a pregnancy results.....well you already knew what could’ve possibly happened while taking that risk. You don’t get to run from it.” I could be off, but that’s my take.

Is there a 100% way to prevent pregnancy while having sex? If there isn’t, then people know the risk before they had sex. I’m not saying they deserve to have an unwanted pregnancy, I’m just saying the child doesn’t deserve to die simply because it’s unwanted.
But do you see how the poster is implying that? Even by your interpretation of it?
Yes, I understand where you’re coming from.
Your argument doesn't make sense. Breaking a leg and getting a cast is not the same as having an abortion. A more correct comparison would be playing a sport, breaking your leg, and then going and killing your neighbors kid.
Thar would be a better argument, but that isn't what the person I replied to said. What he was saying implies that you can't get away from it, because you knew the risk and therefore deserved it. As if it were a punishment. You can't get off of this situation, because you fucked up. The correct argument would be, you can't get out of this situation because you can't kill a fetus. Which is what you are saying. But that isn't that argument that was being made.
I disagree. The correct argument is that the person is responsible for the result and responsibility should not entail killing the very entity you made dependent on you by your actions. No one needs to be murdered for you to get a cast. A similar analogy would be: let's say the law dictated that if you hit someone's with your car you have to be the one to donate blood because of compatibility issues. If you willingly choose to drive, you're choosing to risk hitting someone with your car. If you do, you're responsible for their condition and smothering them to eliminate that responsibility would be immoral. Rather you're compelled to give of your compatible blood. It's an issue of responsibility. It's not "driver shaming." Just like it's not "slut shaming." We don't give a crap if people drive (or have casual sex). Don't care. Just don't murder someone if a risk you chose to take comes to pass.
I don't think it has anything to with responsibility though. You can't kill a fetus because its a person, that has nothing to do with me being responsible or not. You say: What is the point of the if? You just can't murder people. That's all there is to it.  You should't get an abortion because you should't kill the fetus, not because of some responsibility. In your car analogy, you are saying that you owe them and therefore have to give blood, but IF i don't owe them, then I wouldn't have to give blood. I don't imagine that you think it would be OK to kill a fetus if I don't am not responsible for them. It is a strange argument to make when the main point seems to be that you can't kill a fetus. The reason you can't kill it isn't because you owe it something.
Being a person is a necessary but not sufficient condition for using someone's body against their will in order to stay alive. I disagree. If someone isn't responsible for the needy condition of the person, then they shouldn't be compelled to give of their body, their fluids, their organs, etc --  in any situation. We don't compel people to donate kidneys to save lives. We wouldn't compel someone to keep donating blood if a third party forced them to start donating. Without responsibility, people do have a right to say no to bodily donation and I support that. That's exactly what I think which is why I used that analogy. While I'd probably call it immoral, I see no basis for legally compelling anyone to donate if they have no responsibility for the needy condition.
It is not “slut shaming” any more than it is “money shaming” a lottery winner, each engaged  in an activity that has a slim but predictable outcome.
It's slut shaming because it's impying   that drinking and dancing at a club are inherently irresponsible behaviors. Getting pregnant is not usually an outcome of getting drunk and dancing at a club.
I have never met anybody me who got pregnant from drinking and dancing. Maybe I have been doin it wrong ;) Sex has a specific and predictable biological purpose, that is pregnancy. To engage in it is to accept the potential outcomes. The state (imho) you are in when you engaged in the act is not relevant.
I mean, I accept that I break my ankle when I play sports. But regardless, what purpose does the part about clubbing serve? You don't think that's it's implying that those things are "bad" decisions? It's basically saying the innocent fetus didn't make those decisions, which implys they aren't innocent. But what is the link to dancing and drinking and having fun to getting an abortion?
I am not making a good/bad judgement on the parents activity beforehand, just that pregnancy is the predictable and biological purpose of sex. And  that responsibility for the outcomes that comes with it is on the parties involved. It is just that pro-life view is that the baby is indeed human life and that even if the father does not want the child he has to deal with the responsibility of the new life.

Breaking legs is not a natural and normal result of running. Babies ARE a natural and normal result of sex. You can break your leg falling, tripping, etc etc. You can only conceive a child through sex. Children are not a punishment. Your analogy is way off.
It doesn't say reckless sex though. It just says dancing and drinking. The fact that you understood those things to be linked is the issue. Also I don't understand what the responsibility part has to do with anything. If you are being responsible does that that mean it's ok to get an abortion?
I wish I could upvote this for eternity. Well said!
I agree, I was enjoying the poster until that part—it’s not helpful to the argument at all.
yup. It makes the poster go from 'logical argument presented logically' to 'logical argument -EMOTIONALLY CHARGED STATEMENT - logical argument', derails everything.
/u/LittleJoyful




Notes: I realize this is Catholic so not everyone here will agree with "no contraception" I wrote it (disclosure)
Contraception endorses the lie of consequence-free sex.  Abortion is a product of that lie.  People have to be taught that pregnancy can result from "safe" sex, and they have to have a contingency plan.

Why do you think Science supports the Pro Life position?
Science proves human life begins at conception. Life is an unbelievable right. Science helps a lot in the pro life position.
Can you provide actual scientific research or evidence attesting to this? Not misconstrued textbook quotes or statements from Pro-life Doctors, but actual scientific evidence.
Does a doctor being pro-life suddenly invalidate his knowledge as a doctor? What makes a textbook quote "misconstrued?" Assuming you're ready to argue in good faith and won't hand-wave away dozens of different unbiased sources, I'd invite you to check these out: Wikipedia: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human_fertilization "Fertilization occurs when the nucleus of both a sperm and an egg fuse to form a diploid cell, known as zygote. The successful fusion of gametes forms a new organism." A ton of compiled quotes and sources: https://m.facebook.com/notes/kristin-monahan/the-science-of-the-unborn/10205829166275916/?refid=21&ref=bookmarks&_ft_=top_level_post_id.10205829166275916&__tn__=HH-R More: http://clinicquotes.com/list-of-quotes-from-medical-textbooksscientists-proving-life-begins-at-conception/ And for good measure, an NPR article: http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=4857703
I am just gonna go ahead and predict that this will devolve into: human organism doesn't equal human being or some variation on disputing the definition being, individual, organism, etc, and then human being doesn't equal person, at which point all your sources will mean nothing to them. It's the same pattern over and over again. He doesn't actually care whether or not science supports it, which he made clear by saying "sources that don't include experts or textbooks."
You joke, but semantics are actually really important to this debate. The reason pro-lifers believe science is on their side is because of the romanticization of the word "human". "Human" is a species name. Human and fetus are two separate words with distinct meanings, yet pro-lifers are unable to distinguish the two. One is the species name and the other is the name for a developing embryo. Calling something a human fetus is no more significant than calling something a human thumb. "Human" classifies the species in question and the noun that follows classifies the appendage being addressed. Pro-lifers see the words "human" and "fetus" together and they think that it means that a fetus is a human being... however, what constitutes a human being is more of a cultural or subjective definition. Because as I have shown in many debates either 1. These sources have a bias in them that distorts the factuality of these issues or 2. They are misrepresented and don't actually say what people think they say. You say this, yet I don't believe I or the arguments I bring have been fully refuted on this issue. Considered I used to be a Pro-Lifer and science is what made me pro-choice I think you should learn not to make judgments like that. Because they are flawed examples of sources. Textbooks on this matter don't actually say what Pro-Lifers think they do, and many of the "experts" that pro-lifers cite have connections to anti-abortion organizations. If your movement is based on "science" why are there no major groups with names like "biologists for life" or "pro-life embryologists"? Why do the majority of reputable medical organization in the world support a women's right to choose? Its okay to have different opinions, but not different facts.
No, but it raises questions about their motivations and justifications on the issue. The issue in this debate is many Pro-Life Doctors that your movement tends to cite simply make a statement and then refuse to provide justification for said statement and expect people to believe them just based on their authority. I think that's something we should scrutinize. The view that a human organism comes into existence at—or at the end of—fertilization is logically untenable and unscientific, because a fertilized egg may split and produce twins. If it is even physically possible for a fertilized egg to produce twins (whether it actually does so or not), a fertilized egg cannot be identical to an organism. As long as it is possible to twin, a zygote is not a human anything, but a cell cluster. In the case of twinning, neither of the two humans that eventually develop can be identified as the same human as the zygote, because they can’t both be so, as they are different humans from one another. It is logically impossible for one organism to be identical to two organisms. And, of course, anything that is logically impossible is biologically impossible. In twinning, two (or more) twins come from a single fertilized egg. But neither of the twins is identical to that fertilized egg, on pain of contradiction. To see this, suppose that a zygote (a cell cluster) divides and twins result. Call the zygote “A,” and one of the twins “B” and the other twin “C.” If A were identical to both B and C, then—by the transitivity of identity—B and C would be identical to each other. But B is clearly not identical to C. Therefore, A (the zygote) cannot be identical to B and C. A human organism cannot come into existence until there is no further possibility of “twinning". So okay. Your quotes consists of mainly textbooks. Here is why I don't regard them as good sources. Excerpt from Dr. Ricki Lewis, a science writer with a PhD in genetics and biology and author of several textbooks and thousands of articles in scientific, medical, and embryological publications. “Life science textbooks from traditional publishers don’t explicitly state when life begins, because that is a question not only of biology, but of philosophy, politics, psychology, religion, technology, and emotions. Rather, textbooks list the characteristics of life, leaving interpretation to the reader.” Here is a lecture by Dr. Robert Wyman, chair of the Yale Biology department which refutes the whole pro-life position as well as the "textbook argument" Another argument from Dr. P.Z Myers on why textbooks are not actual pieces of evidence on this argument: I am a big fan of Robert George, but he basis his case of the textbooks that Dr. P.Z Myers show not to be valid in this debate. He also makes a bunch of unassumed assumptions. I probably won't respond in this thread or engage in this discussion. But if you would like to discuss this argument or the sources I have put forward, feel free to PM me.
(sorry, I'm not sure how to do the block quote thing on reddit) [paragraph about pro-life doctors] I agree in principle that we should seek evidence for certain claims, but doesn't this run both ways? I.e. can pro-choice doctors be trusted with the same information, for the same reasons? And on the note of evidence, do you have any that "many pro-life doctors simply make a statement and then refuse to provide justification for said statement?" On twinning, I don't see how "ability to twin" discourages something from being an organism. While the science is a little murkier on this point, what we do know is that twinning is essentially cloning, and plenty of organisms are capable of cloning already. We can clone some pretty complex organisms in labs, for starters. And is an earthworm suddenly not an organism because it can become two earthworms when cut a certain way? Due to existing examples of organisms twinning, twinning cannot be a criterion to prove something isn't an organism. Dr. Lewis's quote is something I think a lot of people would disagree with. The question of why we exist, if killing is immoral, what makes a human a person, etc are all questions of philosophy, psychology, religion, etc. The question of when life begins is something that can be determined through evidence, based on measurable, agreed-upon quantities such as the characteristics of life. Dr. Wyman's lecture is actually something I'd like to listen to at some point since I like to hear all angles on this point. However, for the purposes of this discussion, I gave him a quick look for now, watching the first 10 minutes to hear what he had to say about the biology question. And from that, I have to immediately point out a major issue in his reasoning: his "life arose billions of years ago" point is a classic example of equivocation, mixing up the term "life" on a global scale, with "life" on an individual scale. Life started billions of years ago. My life started in the 1980s. The talk of budding and asexual reproduction is irrelevant; obviously this discussion is about human reproduction, not all reproduction. At the risk of sounding aggressive, I found that P.Z. Meyers article poorly written, obnoxious and full of bad science. The language and tone used make it read like an emotional blog. Worse still, he misinterprets his textbook examples then defaults to the "skin cells are human too" argument, equivocating the use of "human" as an adjective with "human" as a noun--a rookie mistake. His point of bringing in textbooks that prove zygotes are not human beings then falls flat. Obviously, skin cells (and warts, and gametes) are human, but they aren't unique individual human beings. If you feel like continuing via PM, that's fine. I don't think anyone's really checking this old thread anyway.
Human fertilization Human fertilization is the union of a human egg and sperm, usually occurring in the ampulla of the fallopian tube. The result of this union is the production of a zygote cell, or fertilized egg, initiating prenatal development. Scientists discovered the dynamics of human fertilization in the nineteenth century. The process of fertilization involves a sperm fusing with an ovum. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
Science doesn't "support" political positions.
I think OP would disagree.
Well the post is just a meme, it isn't supposed to stand up to strong scrutiny.
Pro-life movement needs more dank memes.
Dank Pro-Life memes has FB, IG, and Twitter I think!
That’s exactly where I got this from!
Since The Left cannot meme, we got the market cornered.
I don't think pantimimed sexual assault against your opposition is quite the analogy you want for a pro-life group.
Pro-lifers are allowed to have a sense of humor.......time to get rid of the baby-boomer conservatism stereotype
Might just be me, but I really don't find sexual assault funny or a light-hearted way to describe "winning" something. It seems like really bad taste to me. Made even worse by the fact that rape is so often the focus for debates on where legal lines are for abortion. Trivializing it is not a good look for the pro-life community. But yeah, at least it's "hip".
Also I’m pretty sure John Cena consented to this......you do know wrestling is fake right?
Rape porn is fake too, with consenting adults only pretending to not be. Why not use that for your next meme? That'll really drive home the sense of compassion that the pro-life movement needs.
Ehh the younger generations are pretty nihilistic, I don’t think funny memes are going to be the thing that turns them away from the pro-life movement. Memes are the future 👌
I guess I must just be more sensitive to using sexual violence as "funny" than you are. Putting the assaulter as the "hero" of any analogy makes me want to throw up a little. I suspect you're younger than I am, and it will take a few more years for you to regret this joke, but you probably will. I regret a lot of jokes like this that I used to make.
Is the stick up your butt a result of sexual assault?
If you’re on social media, check out dank pro life memes. I think you’ll change your mind when you see more of the creators content
I mean, this is one of the worst memes dude made. But much of his other stuff is pretty /r/fellowkids, super simplistic, or way Trumpier than I'd ever care for. There are a few decent ones there. There's nothing wrong with memes. I do think some memes are better than others, and highly political memes probably don't do much to further conversation ... but my beef with this one isn't that it's a meme. It's that it favorably identifies with a sexual assaulter. For me, that's a line beyond good taste.
I’m a fan because he’s decently good at presenting philosophical ideas in a (semi) comedic format (memes).  Yea they could possibly be funnier, but he’s the only one I know of doing it. He actually responds to FB messages well and even has a podcast. It’s called the fetal position if you want to check it out.
Well to each their own. Probably wouldn’t hurt to try new methods though, not like the movement has done great to this point with the normal routine 🤷‍♂️
I wouldnt rape you.
Get some new material
I wouldnt rape you cuz i know youd keep the baby
5/10

I already wanted to see this movie based on reviews. This just makes me want to see it more.
It's phenomenal. I posted about it being pro-life in here the other day (albeit it was aggressive) but received a considerable and surprising amount of push back. Was cool to see an article about it.
"Pro-life" in the sense that, yes, being alive is good, and I recommend people live their lives?  Sure. But pro-life as in anti-abortion?  I'm really confused as to how that argument is made.  It sure doesn't seem to be made in this article.
The whole idea of abortion is that it is supposedly better for some people not to be alive. And you couldn't imagine a much stronger case than the situation we have in this movie. But the family has a child anyway, as wild an idea as that may seem to be, and this is presented as a healthy, normal, loving thing. So yes, I would say pro-life as in anti-abortion, if you are anti-abortion because you believe that nurturing human life (rather than destroying it) is a good thing under all circumstances. I was a bit repulsed, though, by OP's seeming desire to read this as a story of a family having a baby they don't want because of some moral sense that didn't for some reason oblige them not to have sex in the first place. Instead it's about love, which in my belief (obviously) necessitates an anti-abortion stance.
This was the aspect of the movie I was most horrified by. Who in their right mind would risk becoming pregnant in that environment? It’s basically a death sentence for the entire family. It’s irresponsible and not beautiful in the least. Mistakes happen, of course, but I still can’t wrap my mind around how they could let that happen.
This was the aspect of the movie I was most horrified by. Who in their right mind would risk becoming pregnant in that environment? It’s basically a death sentence for the entire family. It’s irresponsible and not beautiful in the least. Mistakes happen, of course, but I still can’t wrap my mind around how they could let that happen.
I have a question that's been troubeling me when it comes to my prolife stand .When it comes to extreme birth defects that garantee a short life span for the infant with a horrible life quality isn't early term abortion a more merciful solution ? As an exemple there is Trisomy 18 and 13(among other diseases and syndromes) that results in multi organ abnormalities and in wich patients rarely survive till their 1 year old birthday . So by bringing them to life we are doing nothing more than torturing them without even the possibility for them to enjoy life. I want to add that I'm an atheist so although I respect religion and relegious poeple , religous arguments do not hold any weight  to me. I'm here asking a genuine question while beeing open to all possible views (prolife or prochoice ones) .
I don't really buy that anyone does it out of true mercy for another, i think they do it to make it easier on themselves. Its hard to watch someone struggle. It takes a load off of us when someone struggling finally dies. I also don't understand part of your post below- some people on so much morphine they don't remember who they are- but aren't they usually asleep or very scarcely conscious at that point? Are we talking about hospice, or a hospital where the person is going to get better and so you have to cap the dosage so as not to damage the organs that they'll need to live when they get better? Another thing is don't you think burning them to death with salt solution, or making them have a heart attack,  or ripping their legs off and crushing their skull is torture too? So like, torture vs torture... if there's going to be "torture" you can either be the doing the torturing or not.......
I spent an hour writing then deleting , formulating a reply but at the end I think you have a valide point .Murder is Murder ,either be a part of it or not.
Lol i have done that so many times. I'm glad my point came off well
Question: If a baby is born in an area without pregnancy screening and is found to have a deadly disease (let's say cancer) at birth which she is not expected to live more than 10 months from, do you support euthanizing her?
I'm aware that euthanasia and abortions fall under the same catagory : ending a human life . And I'm ,in theory , against murder .But I already saw too many patients ,in a hospital enviroment, so high on morphine (maximum dosage) that they can't even remember their name or recognize anyone they know yet still in unberarable pain .When faced with actual poeple begging  whoever listening to end their suferring , you can't know for sure weither euthanasia is right or wrong . I can't bring myself to pull the plug but I can't say it wrong either. Same goes here .I can't bring myself to kill the baby (because it's murder) but at the same time I can't fully condamn it .
Ok I hear you, but you didn't really answer my question. Or it sounds like your answer is "I don't know"?
I would say : I don't know .But as TheBrainIsABodyPart pointed out : the urge to help that baby (by euthanizing her) comes partly from a selfish need to get releaved of the burdden of watching said baby suffer .Even if it's a doctor trying to help his patient by ending her suffering.That decision is still coming from a selfish place and not entirely an altruistic action .Wich makes it unethical .
If an infant suddenly got some illness and was diagnosed with only a week left to live would it be okay to euthanize them? I think there's a fundamental difference between letting someone die and killing them, and I'm not prepared to say it's okay to kill a baby in that sort of situation. But maybe I'm wrong. Maybe you could argue they're already dead and you're really just providing medical treatment to make it easier. I can say with confidence that the vast majority of prolife folks would be willing to compromise and continue to allow abortion in those very rare scenarios if it means outlawing the rest. As far as I know, few people who use these sorts of fringe examples to defend abortion are willing to make that compromise, so I don't see the point of it in the first place.
Refusing to act is an act of itself .Refusing to end the suffering of someone as an act of mercy is  letting that someone die on their own. And I'm not trying to refute the prolife viewpoint alltogether .I agree with the general idea , just trying to argue the fine print .
This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.

Screaming at and physically assaulting your opponents in hopes of silencing them. How effective! /s
Yikes. That was so painful. How long do you think she shook that paint can before she came up with some totally logical reason she wasn't going to use it? Pray for her
He is absolutely a privileged white male who is defending the rights of a defenceless unborn child.
It just makes me sad for this woman.

I miss Benedict.
He’s not dead yet
True, but I miss his leadership.
not even christian but amen
I’m gonna make like 1000 fake reddit accounts to upvote this

Your implying that the Holy Spirit spoke one truth and now speaks another. Francis and Benedict can be and should be read together
He’s still a Bishop and so the he still has the Holy Spirit with him.
What's your point? Francis says the same thing.
Uh that’s what usually happens??
Assuming you believe that the Pope actually has any authority in what he says.  Let's imagine for a moment that we don't have the Pope at all, just the Bible.  What changes?  Absolutely nothing except no patron saints, no praying to Mary, and no purgatory.  You know, what every protestant group believes.
I've heard many different views about when an embryo becomes a person (a full human being). The pro–choice stance that personhood begins at birth doesn't really stand up to scrutiny, as we all know. The most common answer among pro–lifers is that life and personhood begin at conception.I'm interested in hearing from those of you with different opinions. Does life perhaps start at implantation? Gastrulation? The first detectable heartbeat? The first detectable brainwaves? Quickening? The second trimester?As a pro-lifer, I've heard a lot about life beginning at conception, and many of the arguments are quite solid. So now I want to consider these alternative viewpoints as well.
I can't imagine a reason why a living human wouldn't be a person.
Because in our enlightened and progressive society, only SOME living human beings are granted the honor of personhood, but not in a bad way like some savage and evil cultures have done it in the past, in a new and more wholesome way that only eliminates the weakest among us.
In my experience pro-choicers tend to argue that personhood begins when a living human gains a trait like consciousness/sentience/ability to feel pain, and/or viability. It's difficult though to really pinpoint exactly when a fetus/baby gains those traits, so pro-choicers (who rely on this argument rather than bodily autonomy) tend to draw the line at different points. Some draw it at 20 weeks, others birth, others 24 weeks, others third trimester.
It's not a genuine argument because they also don't care when a fetus is aborted that actually possesses those traits. It's just an arbitrary "line" they draw to make it permissible but not look like a monster. Edit: a letter
Even if you could morally justify an idea of 'personhood' based on some other criteria than being a human (which I don't think you can), it would be very dangerous to translate that into a legal framework. Giving the government the ability to set criteria for which humans are worthy of life and therefore which are not is, in my opinion, unwise.
Short video from a non partisan source on personhood https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=GxM9BZeRrUI
I consider "personhood" and "life" to be two different things, honestly. Personhood begins at a random, arbitrary age (usually 18) decided on by the government and is, for the most part, subjective. Human life begins at conception always. Edit: Old post. Sorry.
It's like asking when does someone become an adult. There isn't a correct answer, it's completely subjective.
Adult is a stage of life, not a moral status.

They really shouldn't be allowed to use the word "safe" considering at least one human is killed every time an abortion happens.


I think this meme was originally intended to be about gun violence and the NRA, but it works just as well for abortion and Planned Parenthood!
BuT tHeYrE jUsT cLuMpS oF cElLs
I'm just a clump of cells, you're just a clump of cells, we're all just a clump of cells!
Given how the capitalization is reminiscent of the "mocking Spongebob" meme, I'm pretty sure /u/lfpod's comment was tongue-in-cheek.
iM pReTtY SUre HiS CoMmEnt wAs ToNgUE-iN-cHeEk.
I could get behind this if it was a song.

Sure...

Hello! I've been lurking here for a week or two, and I was just wondering what the consensus was on the death penalty and euthanasia. I 100% agree that abortion is murder and the "standard", I guess, prolife beliefs. I was hoping that someone would be willing to share their beliefs about these topics as well, as I'm not decided but definitely open-minded. Thank you for your time.
I’m against the death penalty. If we can guarantee a dangerous person can’t escape and be a threat to the rest of the world, then the death penalty is not preventive while it never was corrective. I believe the person should have the opportunity to change during a lifetime in prison. Also, I’m pretty sure keeping someone alive in prison for decades is a lot cheeper than the execution process. Therefore, the only motivation for the death penalty is vengeance, which is never a good motivator for anything. As far as assisted suicide goes, I believe we should be able to choose for ourselves whether or not we want to live. I watched my father slowly and painfully deteriorate from cancer until his last breath. I don’t see why we’d force anyone to suffer through that after realizing there’s no hope. That’s just my opinion though
The death penalty is only justified to prevent harm to innocents- and at one time, your jail was a wooden shack, and very dangerous criminals had to be killed because a determined psychopath could feasibly escape and hurt more people. Nowadays, in most countries, there is no need for it and I'm against it. I am fully against assisted suicide in every situation.
You will get a bunch of different answers on here, any of which could be right or not since this subreddit is specifically pro-life as it relates abortion. We’re probably split 50/50 on other “life” matters. Personally, I am strongly against the death penalty. I am a believer in the future value principle, and I don’t believe it’s right for me to take away someone’s future and any valuable experience they might have, just because I don’t value those experiences myself. They aren’t mine to take away. I also don’t believe in it for the same reason I think murder is wrong. I’m not religious but I do believe in God, and I think one of the worst things you can do to someone is take away their chance to right their life. When you kill someone, you decide that they should be judged (if that’s real) for who they are at that very moment, when they could have had a whole lifetime to become better. That right, to become a better human, is not something I would ever take from a person, even if they had done it themselves. It’s a true injustice. Assisted suicide, however, I am on the fence about. On the one hand, as long as there is no emotion or physical coercion, and the person deciding it is of sound mind, it should be okay. On the other hand, it can be very easily abused and risks turning into something I am not okay with which is involuntary euthanasia. I don’t want it to ever be ok to kill someone because they are old, suffering, dying, poor, etc. It always needs to be their own choice, with good reason, and safeguards to make sure there is no pressure, intimidation, or coercion. Edit: Also I just remembered this is my husbands phone and his reddit account but I’ll leave it anyways. Lol
I don't think killing people is a good thing, but I don't believe execution should be outlawed. My philosophy is basically that you implicitly consent to actions you commit yourself, so the family of a murder victim should have the legal right to kill their loved one's killer. I'd hope they don't, but I believe they have the right. I believe suicide is a right, even if I don't like it. You should have final say over your own body. If you can choose to smoke and get fat then you should be able to choose to die.
Against the death penalty.  We should only permit a justifiable homicide for self-defense.  If the convict is in the hands of the State, no one needs defending. I'm not in favor of assisted suicide either, but I'm more concerned with ensuring it does not become taxpayer funded and receive some sort of official stamp of approval.  There's only so far I'm willing to go when someone clearly doesn't want to be living. Although I do fully understand why someone would want do that, I can't condone it.
Both death penalty and abortion are murder. Suicide at least let's the individual decide if they want to continue living.
Death penalty - I am against the DP. Two main reasons: (1) there are innocents on death row and imo killing one innocent is inexcusable and (2) it costs far more to execute someone than to keep them in jail for life. Euthanasia - Euthanasia is the direct administration of a deadly dose of some medication to a patient to kill them. This is illegal in all states as it should be. It's not the same as assisted-suicide. It leaves way too much leeway for abuse or mistakes. Physician assisted suicide - This I support. This is the practice of a physician prescribing a deadly dose of medication for the patient to take at the time of their choosing. It's been legal in Oregon for 20 years. It's used for patients whose prognosis is not beyond 6 months. It requires two physicians to sign off on it. It requires assessing capacity of the patient. They can rescind at any time, they can choose not to take the medication. There are records of who has used it and for what. Imo this practice is very humane. If a person is suffering immensely and decides they would rather not live in pain for months, that is up to them. To me it's about autonomy, making decisions for yourself, for your body. And it fits with the pro-life perspective, since abortion is someone making a decision for someone else (death) which is why it's wrong.
Pro-death penalty. Executing someone for intentionally committing horrific crimes against another person is not the moral equivalent of killing an innocent unborn child. You can be pro-liberty and still be okay with depriving people of their liberty as punishment for a crime. You can support private property rights and still be okay with depriving people of their property as punishment for a crime. Similarly, you can be pro-life and still be okay with depriving people of their lives as punishment for the worst crimes. I am all three.


This is why we need to elect Republican governors across the county. Planned Parenthood is going to spend $20 MILLION to elect pro abortion Democrat governors up and down the county and we must defeat them.
Good. Very glad to hear this.
That's good and all but he brought back the death penalty like a year after Nebraska finally got rid of it
62% of Nebraska's voters and all but one county voted to retain the death penalty. Also while the Governor did veto it he was overridden. It was the people of Nebraska who got it on the ballot and voted for it. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capital_punishment_in_Nebraska#2015_repeal_attempt
Ah, i didn't pay to much attention to it, i just heard about it at the time. Thanks
I'm a pragmatic guy, I'll take what we can get. I'm more concerned with the murder of unborn babies than the lives of convicted killers.

The situations are not comparable. A walkout took place about gun control because a gunman entered into a school with a legally owned gun and opened fire. It would be understandable for the administration to allow their students to show their feelings about a political issue that directly affected them at school. The fact that the administration has indicated that they won’t prevent the abortion walkout or punish those who take part, is a win in of itself.
And how many of those students lost a sibling or siblings to abortion? How many of those students felt coerced into abortion? And how many of those students were fathers to babies they lost in abortion? I think abortion directly affects us all in more ways than people understand.
Potentially every single one. That being said abortions do not take place at schools. That to me is the fundamental reason why you see a protest around gun control getting support from the administration.
Oh, I see. Unfortunately some college campuses are getting really close to this.
I've been a pro–lifer for many years. I'm also bisexual. Something that troubles me is how often people use pro–life platforms to criticize LGBT people. It often borders on hate speech.For example, LifeSiteNews seems to publish just as many anti–LGBT articles as pro–life articles. Recent articles refer to "sodomy" and "homo–tyranny."This troubles me for a couple reasons. First of all, married same–sex couples are less likely to have abortions and more likely to adopt children. Adoption is good, right? Second, it reflects badly on the pro–life movement. As society becomes increasingly tolerant of LGBT people, criticizing us only hurts the cause. Last but not least, it alienates LGBT people from the movement. Some of us are also pro–life! But why would we want to march alongside you at a protest if you're carrying an anti–LGBT sign instead of a pro–life sign? (Needless to say, I unfollowed LifeSiteNews a long time ago.)If you want to criticize LGBT issues, you have the right to do so, but please do it on your own time. Please don't equate pro–life with anti–LGBT.And please, please accept us in the pro–life movement! The more, the merrier. We can only end abortion if we build a large, diverse coalition of people from all walks of life, with one thing in common: respect for all human beings, before & after birth!
Some individuals are unable to leave their other political views and agendas at the door when advocating for pro-life policies. I am sorry that you might feel discriminated against when fighting for an unborn child. You are always welcome.
As a non-conservative pro-lifer (I'm a centrist who bases my political views around my Catholic faith) this is the biggest problem I have with the movement; it's way too right-wing partisan.  They all talk about how liberals have gone so far left on abortion it's a lost cause and in response go hardcore conservative.  I personally know pro-life liberals and I also know the pro-life Democarat movement is a thing, I've seen it on political blogs and sites (not surprisingly, not on pro-life news sites though).  I think the truth is that the pro-life movement went right-wing too soon and abandoned pro-life liberals before the Democrats abandoned them, so they got hung out to dry from both sides with nowhere to go.  As someone who is a strong believer in dialoguing with both sides of the aisle, this troubles me greatly, especially when the influence of the pro-life movement on my fellow Catholics is causing them to politically promote many un-Catholic positions because hard right-wingers in the movement do too,
Democrats have thoroughly cleaned house of any lingering pro-lifers in leadership. That is not the fault of conservatives.
Exactly! There used to be a lot of pro-life democrats, but they've been pushed out and slowly indoctrinated to the right. Both sides have become so radicalized these days and refuse to get along. We need support from both parties to actually get anywhere with the movement so why are we pushing democrats away? I think they have a point that we should support these women and their children after birth too. One reason for abortion is fear of economic ruin. I get what you're saying about Catholics too. I've seen some support the death penalty and it makes me sad. Politics should not override religion. Our church is not aligned with a political party.
Every pro lifer who votes for someone whose name doesn't begin with Dan and end in Lipinski is voting for abortion.
If you want to save the lives of children, you are welcome.
Thank you. I was pleasantly surprised to find virtually no anti-gay propaganda on r/prolife :)
Keep in mind that LifeSiteNews is more of a Christian/Conservative outlet, rather than a solely pro-life blog.
I guess I found that out the hard way :)
This is me. I keep the two issues completely separate.
Thank you :)
I'm a very conservative Catholic. I'll let that statement speak for itself. That said, if you want to help save the lives of the most vulnerable, I will stand beside you, plain and simple.
Thank you :)
I'm a pro-life trans woman! We are here. We exist! We believe in the right to life, too!
We're here, we're queer, we're pro-life! <3
Can there be a pro-life organization with this as their motto? Plsss!!??
Maybe we can petition PLAGAL :)
How do I not know about this? TY!
What you do with your consensual partner and with your own body is none of my business :)
Literally my sign for March for Life here in Canada. :D
I saw pictures of your sign! Represent! :D
I would agree that the cause for life is too important to turn away possible allies. I disagree with some of the assumptions of your post concerning non-traditional lifestyles, but I certainly wouldn't tell someone who is gay, for example, to stay away from the movement. Our goal is saving lives, fgs.
It gives me hope to see leaders proving that you can be pro-life and also of a different sexuality! Especially nowadays as the LGBT community assimilates more into general society. Keep up the good work! All life should be valued
This is why I hate being a centrist. Being both pro-gay and pro-life seems practically unheard of.
Try me. I'm an atheist pro lifer. Only one I've ever known of.
Well, now you know of two.
You have no idea how nice it is to run in to another! I think there are several rational arguments to be made not involving god to not kill fetuses (or, as I view it, murder).
Not quite an atheist myself but sort of an agnostic pro-lifer.
I've gotten so much hatred from other atheists for being prolife It's unbelievable. Never once got hate from prolife folks for being atheist though.
I'd say you're going to get hate on both sides. But definitely the atheists are more vitriolic
This will always be an enigma for me...if a person doesn’t believe in a form of spirituality/ afterlife, if they believe this is this life is all there is, that birth is the only chance a person has to experience everything there is how does that make you pro-choice? It seems that if anything you would be more pro-life than even some spiritual/religious people who believe that the soul lives on anyway. Just my reasoning, not necessarily expecting an answer as you stand apart from the rest
I know right? One day I'll post a pro–LGBT link on facebook and piss off all my conservative Christian friends, then the next day I'll post a pro–life link and piss off all my progressive pro–choice friends. You just can't win! 😂
I don't think anyone would object to anyone supporting a scientific and moral stance on the right to life and advocacy for the lives of the pre-born. The two worlds might collide would considering adoptive parents for children saved from abortion.
And the worst part is watching other pro-lifers continue to alienate our allies because they insist on bringing in other issues! We want LGBT people, we want sinners, we want men and women and non-binary people, and democrats, and literally everyone else! Stop shooting prolifers in the foot by scaring aware potential allies!
As a pacifist, I do tend to link together my pro-life (anti-abortion) beliefs with my other views, because I believe in saving lives from gun violence, war, etc. It seems like a logical extension of the pro-life ethic. That being said, I don't insist on it. Even if people like war (?) I still want to join them in protesting abortion.
As a Christian (and thus as a pro-life human), I don’t hate LGBT folks. I genuinely think that they’re choosing a path to hell and I’m just as concerned and mournful for their lives as I am the infants that are aborted. You can try to tag that whole-hearted basic foundational Christian belief with whatever word you like, but I can tell you that  most Christian people don’t hate gay people. They’re trying to love them the best way they know how - by urging them to turn from sin and towards salvation. Certainly LGBT folks aren’t the only sinners and the Christian community could do a better job of calling out other sins as well, like gluttony, fornication, adultery, and idolatry.
I respect that. You have to follow your conscience.
Thanks for that. :) I gained a lot of sympathy for people who think my marriage is invalid when a bunch of people close to me started practising polyamory. I grieve for them and what they're giving up, and I'm deeply disturbed by the idea of normalizing that model of relationships, but I don't love them any less for it - and that's exactly what honest Christians who oppose same-sex marriages feel. I'll never begrudge someone for worrying about my eternal soul.
It’s certainly a challenge to live in a culture that says that rejecting an aspect of somebody’s life means that you hate them. Seems like overly reductionist thinking to reduce such complexity into an arbitrary binary.
It's a challenge to oppose same-sex marriage with honesty and love, because there are a lot of people (Christians included) who just hate LGBT people and think we're disgusting and evil. I always have to think... Does this person genuinely care about us, or does he just hate our guts? Sometimes Christian "love" can look a lot like hate.
Can you see how ridiculous that is from an LGBT persons standpoint? It’s like saying black people are going to hell because of the color of their skin. LGBT people don’t choose their lifestyles. Your religion is blinding you from the truth.
Another foundational Christian belief is that we are born with the tendency toward sin within us.
That doesn’t make you seem any less of a fool. People are born a certain way. Not acknowledging that and saying they are are going to hell makes you a shitty person. Keep your beliefs to yourself. Nobody wants to hear them nor do we respect them in any way. The pro life community would be stronger without blind lemmings like yourself.
Seems like you’re the only one here who has a problem and doesn’t respect them. So far most others have.
Trust me, I’m not the only one here who thinks your views are dangerous.
You’re certainly the only one who has gone out of their way to display disrespect.
Someone’s gotta do it. No point in respecting views that are obviously evil. At least pro-life vs pro-choice has nuances because of bodily autonomy and various other philosophical theories. Your view on the LGBT community is objectively despicable, and nobody should respect that.
"LGBT" is an abomination that you choose. Sodomy is an action. It's something you choose to do. Nobody is forcing you to commit these wicked acts and promote this degeneracy. Faggotry is a choice. Race is not.
Do you have any scientific proof that homosexuality is a choice and not a normal variant of the human brain?
"Gay" and "bisexual" refer to attraction, not action. There are many LGBT people who are celibate, so please don't paint us all with a broad brush. We're not sex-crazed lunatics.
As far as I'm concerned, lifesitenews went off the deep end a long time ago... I used to read it, but it's not worth it anymore. You're very welcome here!
Wow, I forgot to capitalize the L in LGBT. facepalm
Pro-life trans guy checking in. I'm also frustrated with the over-broad rhetoric in official venues like LifeSite News and Campaign Life Coalition, but I will say that when I brought a queer banner to March for Life here in Canada I was much better received by the marchers than by the counter-protesters. A few priests personally thanked me and my wife for being there; the counter-protesters asked me if I even knew what queer meant and a small contingent literally threw tomatoes at us on the way out. I think the people in the thick of it recognize the sheer difference in stakes between the two issues. I understand and even respect a lot of the arguments against same-sex marriage and transgender identities, even if I don't agree with them, but none of them come close to the mass death of children. I'm very blessed to have mostly encountered people who feel the same.
That's good to hear! And I'm sorry about the tomatoes, they are the ones who obviously don't understand what queer means. They must have felt threatened by the fact that the pro-life movement is generating support beyond the traditional Catholic base.
you are more than welcome. anti-LGBT people are also more than welcome. This is a large movement.
As what most would call a "conservative" Catholic, LSN is crazy.
Thank you :)
I'm an atheist, once a Catholic. The only belief I brought with me is life starts at conception. Trust me, being a pro life atheist is very difficult. The prolifers dont want me because they're 99.9999% religious, and the left (not the far left like feminists/communists/antifa but like classical liberals) do not want me either, because being pro life is "hating women".
You'd probably like the Secular Pro-Life organization.
Already I like it because the third article down is "3 good reasons not to execute women who have abortions". This idea that should abortion become illegal, we should kill the women who had them, baffles and disturbs me. I'm all for punishing the doctors with life imprisonment, but, um, hey-we're pro LIFE. Personally, I'm against the death penalty in all regards, and I would've hoped pro lifers in general felt the same.
Even as a christian I agree with all that. I've always heard make performing an abortion illegal, not having one. The women are victims too. I also remember a time when pro-lifers were all about protecting life from conception to natural death. Unfortunately I think it's become too partisan and radical these days.
I know what it’s like to not have a “home” one-man island I can relate to that. I’m a former atheist, open-minded bible-skeptic “conspiracy theorist” Christian nonconformist. don’t think there’s a sub for that, lol
You didn't choose to be bisexual, but you did choose to be pro-life. Welcome aboard!
Hate speech doesn't exist.
Can you explain?
Speech is speech, if we're not free to say things that offend then we are not free at all. I'm not disagreeing with your point, I'm disagreeing with your use of a term that should not exist.
I agree with that, I also support free speech. But when someone says something hateful towards a specific group of people, I'm also going to call it out for what it is.
In Canada at least, hate speech is considered to be speech that "incites hatred against any identifiable group where such incitement is likely to lead to a breach of the peace." Basically it's the difference between "it's dangerous to teach children their gender is fluid" and "all these transgender perverts need to be shot". I'm pretty strongly in favour of freedom of expression but I do think there's at least a valid moral distinction to make, even if the courts don't necessarily handle it well.
yes, I agree that hateful speech exists, I just rarely see it used without a follow up statement about needing to stop it. I don't disagree with the thought until it becomes a legal term, hate speech as a legal term should not exist.
False I do it everyday lmao
I think you mean lifeSHITEnews :P But seriously, that crap drives me batty. Pro-life =/= anti-LGBT. As pro-lifers we need to be doing all we can to welcome the non-traditional pro-lifers into the movement so we can actually grow.
Yeah, LifeSiteNews is doing a great job of catering to conservative Catholics and pissing off everyone else.
LifeSiteNews is Conservative first and then Catholic. They won't admit there's anything unchristian about Republican policy. I've actually fought with them on twitter about it and their heads are so far up their butts I think they digested their own eyes. I'm a conservative Democrat and 100% follow my Catholic faith, but if I'm telling someone that they can't agree with me politically because they don't agree with me religiously, that's nuts. Thanks for supporting the unborn. And R&M.
LifeSiteNews is as much a Catholic platform as it is a Christian one.
Lifesite is a Catholic publication. They're also against porn and divorce.
*liesitenews

I don't think it's entirely a Catholic creation, but it certainly is dominated by Catholics. One more reason why non-Catholics should participate in the pro-life movement.
Keep in mind that Instaconfused27 is a prochoicer trying to dissuade you. You are welcome here! Everyone deserves equal rights.
Do most prolifers believe homosexuals should have the right to marry people of the same sex?
I think it'd be safe to say yes if you know who comprises prolifers.
Very cool. I was not aware that this many religious people are pro gay rights.
I have no idea. The only thing prolifers have in common is the belief that abortion is wrong and ought to be illegal. Even the details of those two premises are debatable in our circle.
I think pro-lifers are very divided when it comes to LGBT issues. On one side there's conservative Catholics and other social conservatives. On the other side there's mainline Protestants, liberals, libertarians, etc. Which all-in-all makes it really tough for politicians who oppose abortion but support LGBT rights.
Actually, it is an entirely Catholic creation. It was founded by Catholic Doctors and continued as mostly a Catholic movement until Evangelical Christians joined up in the 1980s. The evangelical community, unlike Roman Catholicism, showed little interest in combating abortion until almost 1980. As Jerry Falwell lamented in 1979, “The Roman Catholic Church for many years has stood virtually alone against abortion. I think it’s an indictment against the rest of us that we’ve allowed them to stand alone.” Many Evangelicals actually expressed some Pro-Choice views. David Gareth Jones’ Brave New People was published by InterVarsity Press in 1984. The book, subtitled “Ethical Issues at the Commencement of Life,” argued for a moderate position on abortion, seeing embryos as morally valuable but not equivalent to children. Popular evangelical leaders across the country condemned the publication as a “monstrous book,” describing its author as on a “bandwagon bound for hell.” Evangelical outrage forced InterVarsity Press to withdraw a book for the first time in its history. In 1989, Hessel Bouma III of the evangelical Calvin College teamed with several other Christian scholars to write Christian Faith, Health, and Medical Practice. They argued that the Bible does not actually teach that life begins at conception and that the new anti-abortion advocacy was unsupported by science, concluding while abortion may be morally wrong, “We should not support a right-to-life amendment that would grant personhood to fetuses from conception… personhood should be morally and legally granted to fetuses at the end of the second trimester.” After the publication, Bouma was tarred a “pro-abortion” professor and Calvin College received a stream of demands that he resign. He later noted that many other evangelical scholars shared his view but were afraid to speak publicly about it in light of such reactions. When we look at all the major organizations today such as: National Right to Life, Live Action, etc. They are all Catholic. The leaders of the Students for Life America and 40 Days For Life are mostly Catholic as well. Think about this long hard. This sub will routinely cite life site news. They only are willing to accept others because they aren't in power. But I ask you once again. Say there is a Pro-Life victory? Is a Catholic Dominated movement really just going to start giving you a pass once they have achieved thier goals towards ending Abortion? Sources: http://religiondispatches.org/the-not-so-lofty-origins-of-the-evangelical-pro-life-movement/ http://tah.oah.org/november-2016/abolishing-abortion-the-history-of-the-pro-life-movement-in-america/
Thank you for highlighting the need for greater diversity within the pro–life movement. This is why we need more LGBTQ+ and secular voices in the movement. Every human being deserves human rights, before and after birth, and that's something we should all be able to get behind, whether we're religious or not. Even if pro–lifers turn on me, I will continue to work for the recognition of unborn children as human beings. As will many secular pro–lifers and fellow LGBTQ+ pro–lifers. We'll keep marching for LGBTQ+ rights and the right to life.

I got a bit of a /r/thatHappened vibe from some of that dialogue.

This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.



Implying the GOP has a spine
Implying they have any actual interest in undoing the single most powerful single-issue-voter draw they have at their disposal in the first place.  At this point anyone who thinks the republicans, as a group, actually intend to give up this voter draw is nothing short of delusional.
Or the president.
Atleast he signed a bill to let states defund PP if they want to what has congress done
Voted for the law you just mentioned above...
Lol
That's because neither political party cares about anything. They just choose a topic that has the voters they want. We need to start electing people, not parties, who support human rights for everyone, including the unborn.
Yep. Read their platform and hold their voting record accountable at election time.
Or maybe call your congresspeople? If God hasn't gotten your message by this point, I don't think yelling at him will help.
In a couple threads over: pro-life candidate in blah blah blah needs your help! There's nowhere for them to go after defunding PP that will get them any votes, so they're gonna keep trying in ways they know will fail. If they defund PP they're gonna have to think up a new reason why their single issue base should vote for them and it probably won't be as effective.
Exactly ! I read this quote on the website Quora once and if it’s true is very revealing “am a GOP politician. I am personally indifferent to the abortion issue, as I feel that government should not have a role in personal choice--regardless of the issue at hand. Whether this be about abortion, drugs, guns, religion, body piercings, etc. Ultimately, I believe that if you want to kill or mutilate yourself, go for it. I personally wouldn't, but hey: The GOP is nothing if not the party of true tolerance. I vote Pro-Life every single time, and I will continue to do so until abortion has been decided unequivocally by laws or overwhelming public support for Pro-Choice. Why, you might ask? Well, those Conservative Christians you like to mock so well are basically the largest primary voters for republicans. When I run in a primary, I can't afford to piss them off--even if I'm secure in my district. Dick Lugar et al have shown the danger in assuming you can't lose in a primary. No one shows up for a primary except the hardliners, and those hardliners are the reason I am able to continue where I am. I don't have to agree on 90% of their beliefs, but I do have to agree on a few: Abortion is one of them. I'm really pleased that the gay marriage issue will be out of my hands soon enough. I look forward to saying "While I think it's wrong, we can only try to work within the framework of the law." I don't care about gays, either, to be clear, but my primary voters do. Legalized Gay Marriage is the single best thing to happen to the GOP in 20 years: We don't have to fight against it in a primary where most people are pro-Gay! Let's make it really clear, though: Almost no one wants to ban abortion, except maybe Bachmann (who's loon) and her cohorts. In a perfect world, we would like to reduce the number of abortions occurring without encouraging dangerous illegal abortions. The science shows that abortions go up if it's illegal, and that's rather the opposite of the goal. We really just want to make it harder. If we could put in enough requirements that the once-a-year recreational abortionist says "It's easier to adopt" then most of us would be happy. I think most of the liberals would be happy with that outcome, as well, but they seem to want to position themselves as the party of "Kill -all- the babies." That's just as insane to me as wanting to force 16 year olds to mutilate themselves rather than face telling their parents, but I guess that's just rationalism talking. To recap my answers: We do use abortion for political gain, but only really in a primary where it is an important issue to the only bloc of voters who show up. We like to keep this to places where there is no press so it won't be brought up ever again. There are exceptions, notably those who are absolute believers that government can and should stop abortion--but they're delusional or devout, and it's often hard to figure it out. We'll stop running on abortion when it stops being one of the major issues we have to convince voters about. Also, Bachmann is insane and it's really nice to be able to admit that.” Written 12 Jul, 2013.
Attacking the Republican party isn't the answer. If we let the Democrats get back power then there will be no hope of ANY progress on abortion for at least another 6 years.
No one’s saying to go vote for Democrats. But if the Republicans keep taking no action, we need to call them out on it. Abortion won’t be banned overnight, and I understand that that’s something we’ll have to take a gradual approach towards, but defunding Planned Parenthood is literally the least we could do, and yet it’s currently being used as a bargaining chip to get Democrats to support other Republican bills.
As a Republican, if your Republican is Lisa Murkowski and your Democrat is Dan Lipinski - Go Vote Democrat. They both are at complete odds with their own parties respective platforms. Principle -> Party.
A pro life Democrat versus a pro choice Republican is just a truly exceptional case. As far as i'm aware it's only happened once back in 1990.
Y'all gotta punish Murkowski for voting against the party? Lol.
It is the only answer. Ignoring the GOP and their deceit does nothing to help the pro-life causes.
No we need to attack the Democrats who are the reason that: Planned Parenthood isn't defunded, that late term abortions are still legal and that pro life judges have been stalled. THEY are the ones who have opposed all these measures (every single Democrat voted for Planned Parenthood to keep their money, even the """pro life""" ones people like to tout). If you vote for any Democrat whose name doesn't begin with Dan and end in Lipinski, you're voting for abortion.
The Republicans are in control of Congress and the White House. Please stop making excuses for their lack of action. The REPUBLICANS just voted to ‘defund’ Planned Parenthood by GIVING them 500 million per year. Why would you not hold Republicans accountable for this? No wonder Republicans can get away with promising to be pro-life but never have to follow through. Why only hold Democrats to account and completely ignore when Republicans fall short of their promises? Who should pro-lifers be angrier at? Democrats who openly identify as pro-choice and enact pro-choice legislation or Republicans who say they are ‘pro-life’ but end up funding/supporting pro-choice legislation.
We can't defund Planned Parenthood without 60 votes. We're not going to get those 60 votes by attacking the GOP, instead of attacking the real enemy (the Democrats). The GOP has made strong gains in the states and in just about all red states we've seen hundreds of laws against abortion be enacted. Now we need to replicate that on the federal level.
Praising the GOP resulted in ‘defunding’ Planned Parenthood by giving them 500 million per year. Good luck in ever getting the same kind of politically friendly environment for pro-life policies in the future. The Republican Party and it’s supposed ‘pro-life’ members squandered a rare opportunity. Why they should be praised instead of attacker is again beyond me. How you ignore that is beyond me. At least with Democrats you know they are pro-choice. You know their end game. You cannot say the same with a President and Congress that fumbled a historical opportunity.
What historical opportunity? We have 51 Republican Senators of which 2-3 are openly pro Abortion. What are we meant to do with 48 Senators?
The historical moment would be the control of Congress and the White House.
You do realise we had that from 2000-2006? And also that was back when pro life Democrats actually existed (There was a big fiasco because pro life Democrats didn't like that Obama care covered abortion). After 2010 all the pro life Dems either lost their seats to Republicans or retired.
There are still pro-life Democrats around. If Republicans have had multiple similar situations they definitely should be attacked for failing to follow through on pro-life policies.



Such a great story. Sad the media doesn't show stories like this since it goes against the pro-choice agenda. I loved this quote

Republicans would have been wise not to ‘defund’ them by giving them 500 million.
The Democrats are responsible as i've already explained. Even the "pro life" Democrats like Joe Manchin and Donnelly.
How is it the Democrats fault that Republicans votes to ‘defund’ Planned Parenthood by giving them 500 million per year?
The Democrats unanimously vote for Planned Parenthood and allow no compromise whatsoever. This is the hill the Democrats are willing to die on and quite frankly we need to kill them on it.


I hope this isn't being taken out of context by people reading it. People like to quote the Catholic church when they talk about caring about the poor as saying that prolifers shouldn't care that much about abortion. That's not the case at all. The Catholic church thinks abortion is an absolute evil, but they are pointing out, mostly to evangelical Christians, that they need to take a comprehensive approach to caring for their fellow humans.
Correct, it is not saying that a pro-life stance is incorrect or that it should be LOW on the concerns list, just that others should be equal and that it should not be the ONLY thing Christians should be concerned about.
As one might expect, CNN misinterprets the Holy Father's teaching. The importance of abortion and fighting against it is unchanged.  What is elevated is the plight of migrants and refugees ... that their innocent life also be protected. I don't think anyone, especially folks in this sub, want to see anyone be exploited or harmed just because they were born in another country.  We should debate (not here) how to best help these folks that may well be at risk of serious harm.  Of course we don't turn a blind eye on anyone vulnerable.
I am glad the Pope has come out to indicate that while we should maintain our support for the unborn, we must also remember and consider how we support those who are born.

My favorite part was when Jesus told us to help our fellow man, so long as he wasn't a foreigner.
Not true Proverbs 6:16-19 These six things doth the Lord hate: yea, seven are an abomination unto him: 17 A proud look, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood, 18 An heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in running to mischief, 19 A false witness that speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren. While it is very important to help the poor as is specifically mentioned a multitude of times in scripture. Scripture is very clear that the shedding of innocent blood is something that God hates.
I just wanted to introduce myself; I am a 17 year old girl that is very socially liberal and a feminist.  However, my perspective has recently changed on the abortion issue.I browse YouTube a lot and came across a video named "I'm Pro-Life Change my Mind".  After watching it, I felt like I've been lied to my whole life.  I started to research more about the beliefs that pro lifers have and I think that I associate with them more.  I am still remaining open minded but I don't think of you guys as an evil boogeyman.I'm happy that this subreddit exists, and I am hoping to find other girls that are pro life.  From my experience, it seems that most women are pro choice and are intolerant of my views.Anyway, I'm excited to learn more about the movement.
Was that one of Steven Crowder's videos? He's awesome, and you should check out his other "Change My Mind" videos.
They are so hard to watch because even if I disagree with some of the things he says, the irrational college students attacking him is so cringy.
Yay, welcome! I'm a 23yo female and lean more conservative/religious, but I second the previous recommendations and want to add another good secular pro-life resource, Rehumanize International. They're very much in tune with not making the pro-life stance a religious, conservative thing. I'm also a science teacher, so pretty familiar with the science of pregnancy/prenatal development and the half-truths that people tend to perpetuate. And for more socially liberal pro-life perspectives, look into the racial bias present in the pro-choice movement: from its eugenics-focused beginnings to the current push to bring untested contraceptives and illegal abortions to countries whose cultures don't want abortion*. Edit to add the Rehumanize International link: https://www.rehumanizeintl.org *The claim is that high fertility rates in African nations and other third world countries are causing environmental disaster. I'm no climate change denier by any means, but I'm more apt to point a finger at the mansions and private jets of the white people funding these projects than the tight-knit, poverty-stricken farming communities that survive by having large families who support each other...
This seems relevant and one my favorite/most infuriating things to watch. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FutdOaDXOg0 Obianuju is my hero.
Yep, exactly what I was thinking of. Thanks for posting the link--she's amazing!
Rehumanize International is everything! Also check out New Wave Feminists and Feminists for Non-Violent Choices. There are so many passionate women, both conservative and liberal, who are prolife.
I am deeply anti-feminist, but if you want a more feminist lean to the pro-life issue, you can start by these names: Destiny Herndon-De La Rosa, from New Wave Feminists Feminists For Life Erika Bachiochi Feminists for Non Violent Choices And, welcome!
The mix of being anti-feminist yet still being able to refer to real pro-life feminists is pretty awesome lol
A good argument is a good argument, no matter the person delivering it! And, after all, the pro-life issue isn't conscripted to a single, narrow political worldview.
Thank you for providing useful information.
New Wave Feminists is a personal favorite of mine.  I was going to mention them but I'm glad to see you already did.
Thank you :)
Welcome!  You'll find Reddit in general is pretty pro-choice, but it's good hear young women thinking these things through on their own and not following the hive mind!
Very happy to have you, LittleJoyful.  Roe v Wade was passed in 1973 when politicians could honestly (eh) say that they did not know exactly what was going on inside the womb that early on.  Think of how far science has advanced in the past 45 years!  1973 looks like the stone age to us.  Now we can see exactly what happens during pregnancy, and as a result, there is now absolutely no scientific basis for arguing that a fetus is not a human person with a right to life. Anyway, welcome to the club!  Let's save babies!
Women are split right down the middle as far as proportion of pro-life v pro-choice. American's perception of these numbers is very off. I'm a woman, also slightly liberal and a feminist. And an atheist.
Same!
That's great! Welcome! It's very true that people try to discredit the pro-life movement by making it out that only socially conservative religious old men are prolife, hower this is absolute nonsense. It is a bit ridiculous to suggest the only reason someone would be against killing a fetus in the womb is because they are religious. You were saying that you were looking to meeting other prolife women, so i thought you would also be interested in this: http://blog.secularprolife.org. It is run by Kelsey Hazard a female atheist prolifer. here is an example article: http://blog.secularprolife.org/2017/08/a-zygote-is-human-being.html I also really like https://www.newwavefeminists.com. p.s was this the video you saw? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OCSZYJywQPM
Stephanie Grey is also cool!
Thank you so much, I will look into those sites. And yes, that was the video I watched.  I am trying to watch all of his videos now lol
Welcome! You will find that pro-life conservative women are very open minded. We are actually pro-choice in a lot of areas. We get a bad rap from the more liberal feminists that think we are against birth control education and knowing there are other options besides abortion. We do not condemn the women that have abortions. We feel they have been lied to through organizations such as NARAL, Planned Parenthood and NOW. I myself, is a product of rape. I hear the argument that in cases of rape and incest that abortion should be allowed. What these organizations do NOT tell you is that those numbers are less than 1% of abortions done.  Just because I was conceived through s violent crime, does not mean I should be killed. Your circumstances do not dictate whether you are worthy of a chance at life or not. I found a video and it’s quite old. It is called “Silent Scream”. It can be found on YouTube. It is an actual abortion being performed at gestation of baby at 11 weeks old. It is quite disturbing but it shows the truth about the baby feeling the pain as the mom aborts the child. Science has proven via ultrasound and Doppler that this is a living human being inside and that it is murder any way you slice it. I have met many women that have had abortions and I let them know that they are not condemned and that they are loved.  I hope you find nothing but love coming from all the comments on this thread. ❤️
Your wording is both appropriate and disturbing. On a serious note, thank you for speaking up to defend others like yourself!!! <3
Was it Steven Crowder?
Yes it was! His videos are really eye opening
YAY! I love seeing more socially liberal woman coming over, as it gets a bit lonely! I made the switch (thank god) a few months before I got pregnant myself at 17 years old. If you ever want to talk to anyone about pro-life stuff, its my favorite thing to do and i'm always here!
26F, consider myself a leftist and feminist. Also currently getting a masters in bioethics and an MD. I'd recommend checking out Rehumanize International. While they do not have a political party affiliation (they reject both democrats and republicans), they do fervently promote the prolife feminist viewpoint. They also have publications explaining why you should be prolife from liberal, conservative, and libertarian (as well as other) perspectives. Further, they don't make a distinction between abortion and other acts of violence, such as war, torture, or the death penalty. The idea is that if we are going to promote human rights in any one of those circumstances, we ought to promote human rights in all those circumstances for the sake of consistency. Be sure to check out their website and their Facebook page! Edit: also very LGBTQIA+ friendly as multiple of their employees openly identify as such
NICE are you in medical school now?
Yes, third year.
Thanks, I'll definitely check them out. Congrats on getting into medical school, that is a huge accomplishment :)
Just know that pro-life despite being a large trait of those who lean right and Christian, does not fall anywhere on the political spectrum. Fuck, I'm a male and atheist and I'm pro-life. Supporting a pro-life standpoint is about the government protecting life, one of the only things it should and it doesn't matter where you lean politically. That's just wanting to preserve life
Welcome! 26F here, more socially libertarian! Most women I know are Prolife. We are out there!
I love Stephen Crowder. Watch some more of his stuff too it’s good
I've been binging his videos :)
Me too
24F here. I'm pro-choice but interested in the movement from both sides, and I'd like to discuss if anyone is willing. My perspective is this: I agree that a fetus is human and that all humans have human rights including the right to life. However, as far as I can tell, no human has the right to demand access to another human's body parts EVEN IF they will die without. For example, if your child gets kidney disease, you cannot be forced to donate your kidney to them. People will die today because you do not donate your kidney. This does not grant them the right to your kidney without your consent. Extrapolating, I don't see why a human fetus gets to demand the right to another human's uterus. This is my main point, and the reason I am not pro-life: it seems to me that to be consistent with the rest of our ethical system, one has to give the person whose uterus the fetus is using the right to consent or not consent to the use of her uterus. Many people will argue that (at least for cases which are not rape) the person consented at the time she had sex. As far as I understand, consent must be both freely given and ongoing. So even having originally consented, it seems ethically consistent to say that the woman can revoke consent at any time. I know that many people disagree with this, but I have not been convinced by the arguments I have seen. I do think we have a moral duty to try to save the child, but unfortunately our current technology is not able to save everyone. I just want to say that even as a pro-choice person, I think everyone agrees abortion is terrible. I would love if we could spend more money supporting newly pregnant women, and continuing the support as they raise the child, so that people do not feel pressured to get an abortion. It seems to me that almost no one would ever want to get an abortion; they're painful, they carry various medical risks, and they're emotionally awful. A pregnant woman has very strong hormones which insist that she really wants a baby, so it is a very bad sign if many pregnant women are choosing to abort; I take it as a sign that we are not doing enough to support pregnant women and mothers. Add to this that banning abortions does not stop people from accessing abortions, but they access it unsafely, resulting in serious harm and often death for the mother as well as the unborn child, and I truly cannot understand how one can ethically argue for a ban. Legal abortions with proper support for women allow women who are thinking of an abortion to discuss their options with a licenced doctor who can let them know about the support options available to them should they choose not to abort, while an illegal abortionist will always just abort the child and not offer any alternatives to the person. So it seems to me that whether you think it's ok to get an abortion or not, you should want it legalized so that women go through legal streams where they can be offered other supports which would allow them to safely raise the child. I'm sorry if anyone found my opinions offensive, and I would love to discuss. EDIT Thank you to everyone for discussing with me, I think we've found some good common ground. I'm starting to get really frustrated with people assuming that I think the unborn fetus is not a human, or alleging that I apply my arguments to the fetus but not the toddler, both of which are not the case as you can read in this original comment. It's very frustrating that people seem to be putting the average pro-choice rhetoric in my mouth and just arguing about that rather than what I've said, and I don't find it constructive for me or anyone else, so I think I should leave this here before I get too annoyed. Thank you again to everyone who engaged with me!
The idea of revoking consent makes me think of telling your 2 year old child "tough luck, but I don't want you anymore," then locking them out of the house. I tend to think parents have an obligation to their child the moment they made the child.
Actually, you can get rid of a child if you think you can't take care of them anymore. This is what the foster care program works towards, along with adoption agencies and in some places, orphanages. Obviously it's horrible, but I think our society is worse off if we say that consent cannot be revoked, because of all the other implications of that. Moreover, forcing a child upon someone who has decided they cannot properly take care of the child is obvoiusly very bad for the child as well.
But you can't abandon or kill them just because you don't want them any more.  You are still responsible for their safety until you can find someone to take over that responsibility for you.
And if you live in the woods and it's winter? Would a parent have the right to just decide to lock the kid out of the house until they freeze or starve?
Obviously not and no one is suggesting that. If there is a way to save the fetus I think we are ethically bound to try, but saving the fetus by infringing on another person's rights is unethical.
The problem is that we don't believe a right is being infringed upon. Just like making a parent care for their child or pay child support isn't infringing on their rights. A fetus isn't demanding a mother's body out of nowhere, by creating a child you create the responsibility. If you hit someone with your car you have to pay them, and if you give someone a boat ride you can't kick them off while out at sea.
People have a right to bodily autonomy, which means they can consent (or not) to other people being inside/doing things to their body. The fetus is inside and doing things, so the person has a right to consent or not. Parents can also put kids up for adoption if they feel unable to look after them. There is a system for that. Forcing someone to raise a child they don't want or feel they can't raise is obviously terrible for the child. As for a fetus demanding the mother's body "out of nowhere", I would argue that nearly all abortions are from unintended pregnancies, and so they people did not choose to create a child. Specifically in the case of rape, the person certainly did not choose to create the child. The examples you mention have nothing to do with this...
Further, there's the fact that, generally speaking, all a pregnant woman really needs to do to take care of the unborn baby is to take care of herself. I know there are special cases, but there have been a significant number of women who have managed to not know they were pregnant and still give birth to a healthy baby. And pro-life people obviously prefer for women to have healthy pregnancies, but all we're really asking is for people to not directly murder a child. That doesn't mean that you suddenly have to spend money on prenatal vitamins and organic food and birthing classes and quit your job to do yoga and make life stress free. (But yes, women do sometimes lose their jobs due to pregnancy, which is IMO 100% not ok and something the government needs to regulate more with paid maternity leave, etc.)
Except in the case of rape, nobody forced the child on anyone.  That choice was made well before then.  Circumstances can change though, even with help rearing a child can be difficult.  It's why my wife and I have fostered children in the past.  We had a home and could help a family through a broken period.  Even in the case of rape that person had no choice in getting conceived, for that matter neither did any of us.  A person shouldn't be punished with the death penalty for an act that it had no part in.  That's why the responsibility for raising a child always falls to the parents until they give their rights away.  I see plenty of people teaching about rights nowadays, but I don't see them teaching the responsibilities that come with those rights. Rights and responsibilities go hand in hand.  You cannot have one without the other. I'm glad you recognize that the unborn should be granted rights though.  I often view today's abortion debate through the lens of the slavery debate when the founders compromised that a slave is 3/5 of a person.  In hindsight, we believe that was a terrible thing and no one in the mainstream would dare to bring it back.  I believe that in the future we will look back on the people that said fetuses aren't humans and/or people the same way we look at the people who said slaves weren't people.  When I explain the abortion debate with my non-religious friends, this is always one of the first points I make. The second is explaining that a fetus is human and should be granted personhood at conception.  I use the metaphor of taking a picture on film.  Even though the film isn't developed into a photograph, the picture still resides on the film.  Destroying the film before it's developed destroys the picture.
That's great and I think I agree with everything you said but I don't think you dealt with the spot where I'm hung up: a fetus (who is a person with human rights) does not get to override the rights of any other human, as far as I can tell that is also built into our rights and ethics system.
You could say the exact opposite "A woman (who is a person with human rights) does not get to override the rights of any other human." There are no humans with more or less inherent rights. All humans deserve the same rights. This means that to kill someone is infringing on their rights as well, but to a higher degree. We should all agree that to kill someone is the ultimate infringement on their human rights.
Yeah but we've already figured out how that works; you're allowed to kill people in self defense if there is no other option available to you. If someone is raping you, you're allowed to shoot them to make them stop. As I mentioned in another comment, my understanding is that the rights are not hierarchical, so you can't infringe on rights "to a higher degree" just by infringing different ones.
Self defense laws are a different story, and would be more in line with comparing it to abortion in life-threatening situations which a lot of us hold exceptions for. For example, if you need chemo but it will kill your child, I wouldn't expect you to not take the chemo. Or if your blood pressure is about to kill you, the kid needs to come out. Just dont kill it first.
Nope. You can use self defense in the case of rape even when the person assaulting you did not intend any bodily harm. Self defense laws are NOT a different story because they are an integral part of our ethical framework. I'm glad that we agree that if the child is threatening the mother's life then the mother has a right to have the abortion.
I feel like we might be talking past each other so I will back up a sec and try to more clearly convey what I mean. If two people, unborn and born, are of equal moral value, which I think we agree on, then neither has more rights than the other. In one instance, the women will be stuck with an uncomfortable pregnancy for 9 months, temporarily losing her autonomy (and I don't take the discomfort or side effects of pregnancy lightly as I have done it twice and absolutely hated it) or conversely, the child will lose their entire future, cease to exist, and will be robbed of all experiences that you and I were able to have. I believe one of those is a lot more severe, which is what I meant before when talking about degrees. I see ending someone's life permanently as a much more severe outcome than a temporary loss of autonomy. Does that make more sense?

This is also why I believe the unalienable rights are listed in the order that they are.  Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness. Life > Liberty > pursuit of Happiness. My right to life trumps your right to liberty. While your right to liberty trumps my right to pursue happiness.  For example my right to practice religion would fall into the liberty category.  Say if my religion says it is permissible to kill non-followers, my right to religion doesn't take away your right to life just because you don't follow my religion even though my example religion says it's ok.
Not sure what you're talking about, I'm talking about the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as defined by the United Nations, which clearly states at the end "Nothing in this Declaration may be interpreted as implying for any State, group or person any right to engage in any activity or to perform any act aimed at the destruction of any of the rights and freedoms set forth herein." which to me sounds like they're all equally important rights. I think you might be referring to article 3, "Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person." but that is just one small part of the declaration.
I was referring to the Declaration of Independence. I find the UN's authority on human rights laughable when countries like China, Venezuela, and Saudi Arabia are on the human rights council.
Ok, well that's a strange thing to refer to since it isn't about rights, and also doesn't apply to the majority of people or countries in the world, including mine. So I guess that's why I didn't realize you were talking about that. I don't think it's a reasonable place to get an idea of universal human rights.
I'm pretty economically liberal, so I half agree. Totally down for financially supporting women through and after pregnancy. We blow money on so many more stupid things than our children. But you've got to admit there's a difference between adopting a child and aborting one
So it sounds like you're coming from the bodily autonomy camp, specifically right to refuse. I would also like to add that I agree with a lot of what you said, except for a few things. https://blog.equalrightsinstitute.com/dfg/ This is a great resource talking specifically about the right to refuse which I think would be helpful to you considering you've already said that you believe in human rights. I also have to disagree with the idea that everyone thinks abortion is terrible. There are so many people who promote abortion is a good, and are outspoken about how great they think it is. If you want examples of this I can pull them up, but the "I love abortion" merchandise comes to mind. There is also some information on the front page of the subreddit that shows that reducing access does ultimately reduce abortions, but I think we can agree that a woman always have the option to not self-abort. Ultimately though we do, as a culture, need to support woman who get pregnant more so they don't have to make that choice. Until that happens though, I feel its essential to fight to the rights of the unborn because life is a human right that we grant to everyone!
Re: loving abortion, I think people mean that they see it as overall good that women have reproductive choice, not that abortion itself is a fun experience. I agree that right to life is important, but that doesn't give people with kidney failure the right to your kidney. Bodily autonomy is also a right. I don't think de facto guardian changes that - if your two year old has kidney failure, they still don't automatically get to use your kidney without your consent.
While I agree, I think we could all say it would at least make you an evil person to abstain from saving your two year old. The de facto guardian establishes that there are, in fact, certain cases where you don't really have the right to refuse. It's doesn't automatically trump the right to life of someone else. But I also think you should consider the fact that the right to refuse is different from active killing. When I say abortion shouldn't happen, I'm not saying you should be forced to carry a child. I'm simply saying you cannot actively kill him.
I can't imagine why someone would refuse but I try to refrain from judging and assuming they're evil. I think the world would be a better place if we all showed a little more compassion to people facing such terrible circumstances. I do distinguish right to refuse and active killing. Refusing to allow another person to live in your uterus is a refusal. If there's another way to save that person I think it is morally responsible to do that, but we cannot force someone to give up their uterus anymore than we can force someone to give up their wealth to feed the hungry. People die all the time because of actions you refuse to take but no one calls you a murderer for it. If you want to save a life, save those. I definitely agree that we should try to minimize abortions but I think it's an ethical quagmire to force women to carry a pregnancy, and that it's a no brainer to offer as much support as possible to pregnant people. I think that given enough support, almost no one would choose to abort because having an abortion is painful and awful, and because pregnant women have powerful hormones telling them that they very strongly want a baby. So I think it's important to give women the right to choose because of our whole ethical framework, but I think the fact that anyone ever chooses to abort is a sign that our society is failing to properly support pregnant women.
I have to respectfully disagree, since there are plenty of countries that spend enormous amounts on pregnant woman and mothers, and they still have a very high abortion rate. Women will always want them. I think we differ on an important point, which is that the life of the unborn is just as valuable as the life of someone who is born. From that disagreement, I am coming from the angle that we don't just trust people not to kill other people, which is why we implemented laws that protect others from someone "making the decision that is right for them." By your standards, we shouldn't have laws for anything because we have to let people do what is best for themselves. Do you see where im coming from with that?
We do NOT differ on that point! The life of the unborn is just as valuable as the life of someone who is born. Please do not put words in my mouth and act like I said the opposite! I do, however, believe that the life of the unborn is NOT MORE important than the life of the pregnant person, and that person has the right to bodily autonomy. And we DO have laws which say you can kill another person - you can kill another person in self defense, if they are infringing on your right, for example, to bodily autonomy. I think you haven't read what I have to say, and you're just putting a standard pro-choice discourse on me and completely strawmanning what I've said. To be honest, I'm a bit offended because I think I'm doing my best to discuss in good faith.
I think a major difference in this topic of organ donation and the uterus, is that organ donation discusses the permanent use of organs the donor would need to live, while the uterus is specifically designed to house a baby. So to forcibly take those organs would result in murder. Second, the comparison should be you need an organ because of something I did, not random kidney failure.
I think I've gone over all these points in various comments. I disagree with you, but cannot continue to argue with people who aren't reading what I've said without getting frustrated.
I apologize in advance if I have not understood you properly, but wasn't it you who brought up organ donation?
It's wrong to kill babies. Abortion kills a baby. I do realise that although there are a lot of women who are excited to be pregnant there are a lot of woman who are worried and are having difficulties with their pregnancy. We should support these women any way necessiary but killing a baby inside the womb is just as horrible as killing a baby outside the womb. Here is a former abortionist describing how an abortion is done:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ESqdmQFTNhE
I think you're oversimplifying the situation. Thanks for the link but I'm quite clear on the process, that's why I say it's horrible and obviously women would not want that if they felt they had other viable options. We need to give women more support, not demonize them for feeling unable to raise a child.
I’m on mobile so I will try my best to point out two assumptions you’ve made that are false. First, no one has a right to use another person’s organs. False. Conjoined twins, duty of care and parental responsibility laws allow one person to use another person’s organs. In fact, the latter demands it if necessary. Second, that if abortion is outlawed they will still happen. But they will happen less as we see with developed prolife countries and restrictions will also produce higher maternal health rates. As we consistently see in developed countries with prolife legislation. So your opinion is based on a bunch of bogus assumptions that you seem to be regurgitating because they been indoctrinated into your belief system.
Well that's why I'm here to discuss! I want to see if there is something wrong with the way I'm thinking about it. With parental responsibility laws: as far as I know if your child has a disease which requires an organ transplant, you cannot be forced to give your organs to your child. Perhaps it is different where you live? Second, I've read stats which say the opposite of what you said - do you have evidence?
No, the laws are the same here. But I don't think the situation of organ donation is analogous to abortion. I think it would be more like donating organs and then asking for them back. I think conjoined twins is a better example because they are already attached and the act of detachment would kill the sibling. Or imagine a father takes his newborn daughter to his remote cabin in the woods for a little vacation, say, (to give the mother a break). Unfortunately a storm hits. He and the child will be stuck in the cabin for months before help can arrive. Luckily there is enough formula for the baby and food for him to survive. Parental responsibility law dictates that he must care for his child. He must feed his daughter, wake up in the middle of the night to make bottles etc. regardless of whether he wants to or not. And many mothers, myself included (and I've been pregnant 4 times) will tell you that raising the child is harder than pregnancy. I mean, the reality is that almost every part of your body is considered an organs. Your arms, legs etc. are all organs. Unless you are distinguishing between internal and external organs for some strange reason? Here are a few. See here, here, and here.
Thanks for the stats! That was informative and much more in line with what I would expect. It's confusing that in different places you can read such different stats. Re: organs - I certainly am not distinguishing between internal and external organs, I'm not sure why you thought I might be. I also certainly do not mean to belittle the challenges of caring for a child. I think the case of pregnancy is demonstrably different than donating an organ and asking for it back; in the former case, the organ is still attached to the mother and will continue to be after the child is gone. In the latter, the organ is no longer attached to the donor and likely cannot feasibly be reattached. This seems like an obvious distinction to me, and how we usually define our body. For example, if someone pulls my hair, that's assault, but if I cut my hair and it's just lying around and they decide to pull on it for whatever strange reason, that's not assault - the hair is no longer part of my body. Obviously that's a silly example, but I hope you catch my meaning.
In the latter, the organ is no longer attached to the donor and likely cannot feasibly be reattached. So, are you suggesting that attachment is the moral distinction? If so, how do you respond to the case of conjoined twins or the father stuck in the cabin? What do you mean by this though? Do you mean that the baby is still attached to the mother for nine months? Presumably, an operation to retrieve that organ can be performed and placed back into the donor. Can you explain why you think that the case of conjoined twins or the father stuck in the cabin morally differ from abortion?
To repeat what was said, you said earlier: I tried to clarify my thoughts. I think abortion is different than "donating organs and then asking for them back" because after donating the organ, the organ no longer belongs to the donor anymore because it is no longer attached to them. In the case of abortion, the uterus belongs to the "donor" the entire time, because the uterus stays attached to the "donor" after the baby is done with it. So, I don't mean to say that "attachment is the moral distinction" I mean to say that "attachment is how we define whose organ it is." You keep bringing up conjoined twins and I haven't addressed it because I'm not sure what you mean. Are you suggesting that if one twin wants to commit suicide they shouldn't be allowed to because it would also kill the other twin? I'm just really not clear where you're going with that... With the father in the cabin, his organs obviously aren't being donated to the child, so again, I'm unclear what you're going for.
He must use the organs on his body to care for his child just as a mother uses the organs in her body to care for her child. I don't see how either situation is morally different. Neither the mother or the father are being asked to donate their organs indefinitely. They must use their organs to care for the child's immediate and most basic needs. In terms of attachment. I don't believe that because something is attached to you it belongs to you. I mean, conjoined twins do not belong to each other, they are separate persons yet are attached. In the same way, when I breastfeed my daughter she is attached to me but she is a separate entity with equal rights and values. Maybe I misunderstood but it sounded like you were saying that if something is attached to you it belongs to you here, Generally we use biology to decide whose organs or body parts belong to an individual. Usually dna is the criteria used. Each individual has their own unique genetic makeup. Certainly a human fetus/preborn child is easily distinguishable from his/her mother by his/her dna. Organs, blood type and all. Here maybe this will help. For the sake of argument I will concede that organ donation examples are not the most analogous to abortion. So, let's look at two scenarios that are much more similar. Imagine that one conjoined twin contracts a disease that will render her depend on her brother for 7-9 months, after which she will be fully healed and a doctor can safely perform a separation. The brother does not want to wait. He wants to be separated right now, even though it will kill his sister. You and I both know that no doctor in their right mind would ever just perform the surgery despite the consequences (death of the sibling). Every doctor and the law would say he must wait. Do you really believe that this would be within his (the brother's) rights? Imagine a second scenario, where a father takes his newborn daughter to his remote cottage for a mini vacation. Maybe say, to give the mother a break. A storm hits, they become snowbound. Help can not come for months. There is enough formula to feed the child and enough food to keep up his own sustenance. Legally the father must care for his child in this scenario. He must use his body (whether he wants to or not) to wake up, make bottles, rock the child to sleep etc.). This is called parental responsibility law. Would you really be o.k. with father deciding that it's too overwhelming and allow him to leave the child to starve to death or to freeze out in the cold? If he did any of these things he would be charged with negligence at best and murder at worst. Yet this is the kind of atrocious behaviour that would have to be accepted if one insists on sticking to the logic of bodily autonomy you presented early. This is why I think the prochoice rhetoric is either logically inconsistent or leads to the acceptance of atrocious behaviour. So, would you really be fine with these things? If not, what is the moral difference between the two scenarios and abortion? If you would be ok with killing the baby or the twin in these scenarios then I would say that although you may be logically consistent, you are morally bankrupt and this is the biggest problem I have with your ideology. If you are not, then I would ask why? And how the situation of abortion is any morally different than the above scenarios. I hope that helps you understand my point a bit better. If not, feel free to call me out on things or ask questions.
Ah! Ok, now I understand what you meant by the distinction between internal and external organs. I haven't heard it put exactly the way you've put it here - this is a new way of looking at it for me and I'm really grateful that you brought it up! Let me try to take a stab at dealing with this: I think that you're absolutely right, we would expect the father to take care of the child and would charge him with a crime if he refused, even though (by my way of describing things) his bodily autonomy is infringed upon because he must use his (external) organs to administer the care. Yet if we go to the other extreme, where the child needs a kidney transplant, we do NOT require the parents (or anyone else, for that matter) to give up their kidneys to the child. Likely the parents would be willing to do it if they are a match, but they are not compelled. So somewhere between the former case, where there is next to no negative impact on the caregiver, and the latter, where there is permanent negative impact on the caregiver (the loss of a kidney) there must be a line. Agree? Then the question is where does pregnancy fall? Is it too much to require someone to go through, or is it acceptable? I think this is what you're getting at with the conjoined twins - you see it as the brother having no significant negative impact, and so you think he ought to be required to wait until his sister will also have no negative impact. The problem is that I don't think pregnancy has no negative impacts. Even if we ignore the ~1 year of guaranteed discomforts and loss of liberties (like being able to drink alcohol and play extreme sports, for example), pregnancy still carries a high risk of lasting damage to the mother (depending on what medical care she has available). In the case of the father in the cabin, there is basically no risk to him, so we require he take care of the child. Similarly the scenario you describe with the conjoined twins, it sounds like there is no risk for the brother. The difference I see with pregnancy is that even in an uncomplicated low-risk pregnancy, there is always a significant risk of various kinds of lasting damage to the mother, apart from the short term impediments. So this is why I see pregnancy as morally different from the situations you described. Ultimately I think this is where pro-choicers tend to throw up their hands in agnosticism and say "we can't possibly know all the details of each case, so let the pregnant person and their physician decide!" I think it's reasonable to fall back on that stance, but I hope we can do better than that and come up with a more concrete answer. Personally, I think I fall on the side of "pregnancy is too much risk, along with physical and psychological impact, to mandate someone to take on." To me, it looks like mandating someone undergo torture for nearly a year in order to save someone else's life, and I'm not comfortable with that. Worse, giving the caregiving responsibility to someone who feels unwilling or unable to take care of another person is dangerous for both parties. It can end in things like fetal alcohol syndrome or drug addicted babies, which is terrible torture to put someone through. All that said, I want to point out that this is the first time I've heard it put like that so I certainly haven't made up my mind about it yet. If it makes you feel better, I personally don't think I would ever get an abortion unless advised to do so by my doctor, and I definitely intend to continue thinking about the points you've brought up here. p.s. re: attachment - I don't think using dna to define whose organ it is works in the case of organ donation - you cannot recall your kidney after you donate it. This is why I went with attachment. I don't think someone nursing is "attached." But it's true this definition does not deal with conjoined twins, I'm not sure there is an obvious way to deal with that. But anyways I think this is off topic.
I don’t think I agree with this. I think that there is an element being cast aside here. I believe that you are suggesting that it is about degrees of negative impact or suffering on the donor or caregiver that ought to decide whether or not they should be compelled to act or not act. However, degrees of one’s suffering is a very subjective thing. Imagine the child in the scenario has the flu. The father does not want to get the flu. In fact, the flu has 3% more chance of killing then pregnancy. And this includes unhealthy pregnancies. Seehere. And yet, he still must care for his child despite the risk. Moreover, the conjoined brother may argue that remaining attached for 7-9 months is an undo burden. It seems easily arguable that it is more burdensome than a healthy pregnancy. He can’t have sex, he is forced to go to hospital appointments, he may be feeling ill from the disease. He is not free and liberated as long as he remains attached (no sports for him either). And keep in mind that I am a woman who has been pregnant four times. I’ve had one miscarriage, two DnCs, and held a very good friend’s hand though a early induction (as she was threatened with mirror syndrome - a complication that can kill you). I’m not trying to toot my own horn here. I’m just trying to say that I am not a stranger to the dangers of pregnancy. But I think that this comment is pure fear mongering and false, First trimester is barely noticeable in a healthy pregnancy. I’d much rather be pregnant then be in the conjoined twin situation or even the father stuck in the cabin. But the reality is that most prolifers (myself included) would always allow for the exception of the life and serious health of the mother. So, it seems like a moot point to argue that abortion should be legal in all cases when really it sounds like it should only be legal in severe cases where pregnancy becomes or is a real risk. Consider this. There are two different types of rights. Positive rights and negative rights. Positive rights requires a person to act. Parental responsibility which requires that a parent provide for their child’s ordinary needs (food, water, shelter) or duty of care (a lifeguard performing cpr) are examples of positive rights because someone is compelled to action. Negative rights requires a person to refrain from action. These rights are much more common. Any law that requires a person to refrain from acting to harm another (no stealing, no killing etc.) are examples of negative rights. So, for example, you can not steal the starving man’s last loaf of bread (because he has the right to not be taken from-negative right-you can not commit an action) but, you also do not have to give him your food (you are not bound by a positive right because it would compel you to action). The man may die of starvation in the second scenario but you are not charged with murder because you did not donate your food. In the same way, you do not have to donate your kidney to your child. Because the child will die of their disease and not a direct action that you have commited. But because a child also has the negative right (to not be killed) you can not stab that sick child or leave her out in the cold to freeze because your action would be the cause of their death. The latter would also apply to abortion. Your action would directly cause their death and be violation of the child’s right to life (right to not be killed). In addition, a child actually does have some addition positive rights (the right to be cared for by their parent as seen in the father in the cabin example and parental responsibility law). So, even if an abortion could be performed by someone omission of action (which is not possible right now) it would still be wrong and a violation of the child’s rights to basic care. Hopefully this helps flush out some of the ideas that go with a prolife stance. I truly believe that statistically speaking the father in the cabin with a sick child and the conjoined twin are at a higher risk than a woman with a healthy pregnancy. So, knowing that the prolife stance allows for life/health exceptions why, in your opinion, would a mother with a healthy pregnancy be allowed to have an abortion (when the father in the cabin is not afforded the same right to kill his child, nor the conjoined brother to kill his sister?). To me, there is still a discrepancy that has not been tackled properly in your argumentation. I appreciate the clear response and civil dialogue.

If she gets kidney disease because I injected an anti-kidney poison in her bloodstream, well, I think a forced transplant would be at least an acceptable idea to come to a mind. I don't think the forced transplantation analogy is so well suited. We can even strech the analogy a bit, to show its inconsistencies: if I receive an organ in bona fide, but after some time I discovered it was unlawfully extracted from a person, am I obliged to give the organ back?
I think as a society we have no basis for the kind of forced transplant you suggest. If someone pokes out someone's eye we don't require them to donate their eye. That's just not how our justice system works. You're right that at some point we have to determine that its no longer the original owners organ. I am not a lawyer but I think that in the case of donation it ceases to be a person's organ when it is no longer connected to their body. So in the example you suggest it could not be reclaimed, unfortunately.
What kinds of rights do you think, should women have over their bodies, and should it include the right to kill a human being inside of them?
I think I've gone over all these points in various comments. Yes, a woman has the right to bodily autonomy just like every other human on the planet. I cannot continue to argue with people who aren't reading what I've said without getting frustrated.
Let me ask you one clarification question. Do you think there should be any restrictions on abortion, such as during the third trimester?
Again, I have dealt with this in other comments. If you don't care to read it there, why would you here?
No, not really. AFAIK, no commenter answered your comment about organ donation in the same way I did, so it brings a different answer, and you haven't specified anything about when bodily autonomy is not an excuse for killing a preborn child, save for outside the womb. Red herring spotted.
Welcome! If you have any questions on why we are prolife or any questions for conservatives in general be sure to ask👌
Yeah, didn’t think about that wording but you are right, it is appropriate with the description of abortion. Thanks!

I'm so glad he managed to win. It's be amazing if he primaryed Durbin in 2020 and became a Senator.
I'm here to answer questions you may have about unborn American citizens.
What is the legal basis for that argument?  The 14th amendment pretty clearly describes birth as the point where American citizenship begins:
"Or subject to the jurisdiction thereof"  Trump just declared that life begins at conception.  That pretty clearly places unborn children under his jurisdiction.
Executive orders do not trump (no pun intended) the Supreme Court.
If you want to get technical it is congress that would alter the 14th amendment, not the supreme court.
It says "and" though, not "or".
Well, naturalization may be done via statute and require no effort on the part of the individual.  No and, ors, or buts about it...unborn Americans can easily be citizens.
I would base my argument on life as a natural human right rather than citizenship.  In fact if there are any human rights it is self-evident life is the prime right because life is needed to exercise any right.  Added to that the Declaration of Independence states it is self-evident life is a God-given right. Illegal aliens can't be killed without cause in the US.  They are not citizens.  If illegal aliens can't be killed with impunity why can young humans in the womb be killed with impunity? I believe also SCOTUS has referred to self-defense as a natural right.  How then can it say life is not a natural right?
I don't think citizenship really matters in the situation.  We don't permit anybody to get murdered on our soil.  That's a basic human right. While I certainly support considering unborn children as citizens, that is a secondary consideration.
Au contraire...As minors, unborn citizens are to be considered dependants.  Tax deduction would help offset labor expenses to the tune of $4k per pregnancy and double for twins if pregenant in April!  Unborn citizenship status will also protect future generations from being poisoned during gestation by alcohol and other drugs as it is a felony to provide these substances to a minor.  Pregnant woman would be able to use the carpool lane.   etc.
I mean, I see the value in the proposition, but there is some language in the 14th Amendment, as helpfully quoted by our pro-choice "friends" which does state "born".  Although I admit, if those folks had understood what had happened with abortions today, they might have not used that language. It will be more difficult to change citizenship requirements than it will be to make abortion illegal. I would certainly support an amendment to fix that issue, but that will be a lot more difficult to pull off.  In any event, we don't absolutely need full citizenship to ensure that children aren't killed, although it certainly couldn't hurt.
To those people I would kindly say... Our president has declared that life begins at conception.  We're talking about human beings with American ancestry.  To be a living human American demands it the same rights as do you.
I wouldn't call them a citizen because they do not have a social security number yet.
SSN is not required for citizenship.
http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2018/04/07/newt-gingrich-california-may-elect-republican-governor-incredible-as-that-sounds.htmlNow here's how YOU can help him get elected!:Volunteer: We need people on the ground making sure voters turnout and you can help even if you're from another state (by travelling here or phone banking), more info here - https://johncoxforgovernor.com/action-center/Donating: At the moment the Democrats are leading in fundraising and has been given millions by radical organizations opposed to Trump. John needs YOUR help to bridge this gap and you can do so here - https://secure.anedot.com/johncoxgov/donate/?form_layout=one-columnKeep informed: You can keep informed of the latest campaign news here - https://www.facebook.com/JohnCoxforGovernorVoting: Perhaps the most important job of all! Make sure you get out to vote in both the JUNE 5th Primary and on November 6th 2018! If you need to register to vote then see here (don't assume you're registered, check!): https://vote.gov/Absentee: If you're serving in the military or aren't able to make it to election day for ANY reason see here for absentee ballots: https://www.fvap.gov/Help Your Church Vote: Here are some excellent resources to help make sure everyone in your church gets out and votes!: https://www.gop.com/gop-faith-registration-drives/Voter Registration Guide: If you're planning to do a Voter Registration Drive independently make sure you read these rules first!: http://www.sos.ca.gov/elections/publications-and-resources/guide-vr-drives/

I have no clue. I don't even know what the legal consequences "should" be for owning a slave, just that there should be some punishment. Like anything in the realm of crime and punishment, it'd depend a lot of the details of each individual case.
You'll get different answers here, kind of because its impossible to answer. Most of us don't know the exact legal consequences of anything because they change based on circumstances, age, culpability, and the person sentencing. The best answer I could give is to charge the person performing the abortion with murder or attempted murder, depending on the successfulness of the abortion. The woman receiving the abortion probably should not be charged with a crime not because one hasn't been committed, but because there are unintended consequences to that, namely the ridiculousness of investigating miscarriages for the possibility of wrongdoing. Its something I feel we would unfortunately have to concede. If abortion is illegal, and a woman doesn't want to have to die during an illegal abortion, she can choose to not have one. Adoption is such a great option and demand severely outweighs the supply right now.
I agree. Pro-choicers would only focus on that weak point of charging the mother as well with murder. IMO, the best scenario that would get more people to the pro-life side would be only charging the doctor.
If the woman literally thought her 13week pregnancy consisted of a few little cells in a clump and she was never allowed to go to a biology or health class in school where they talked about pregnancy, maybe she'd get off because she's been incredibly sheltered/lied to/etc and it truly wasn't her fault. I think that'd be like 0.001% of all mothers who abort.
It will be very difficult to be able to save all unborn children, even if the practice of abortion is made illegal, as long as there remains social pressure to abort as there is today. In that sense, I admit that I consider most women to have had abortions to be almost as much victim as their child.  While there are those women who can certainly be accused of depraved indifference in that regard, it is my belief, perhaps unjustified, that people who are depraved in such a way do not represent the majority of people having abortions.  Instead, they are a product of the environment they have been raised in. So, a lot would depend on state of mind of the mother and what the circumstances were.  In effect, probably the same considerations that you'd have in any homicide. If the mother was of degraded mental capability or under severe stress, no way would I support a first degree murder charge for her.  Maybe not even murder, perhaps manslaughter. If she was some sort of pro-choice extremist who got an abortion as a political statement?  Then first degree murder, certainly. I'd be even more interested in convicting boyfriends/parents and anyone else who would pressure the woman into that action as guilty of conspiracy to commit whatever charge was leveled.  In fact, depending on the woman's state of mind, I might suggest that it is possible that they might actually be considerably more guilty. I do want to emphasize that abortions are not expected to end if they are made illegal, although it should help reduce their number.  Nevertheless, I am really less concerned with punishment than I am with dismantling the "normalcy" of the practice. If legality is permitted to continue, it is likely that the practice will become state funded, and that future governments will continue to push decision-making towards pro-choice ideology.  Making the practice illegal will allow that trend to be reversed.
Great answer, thanks for responding!
"Doctors" that perform abortions should be treated like child murderers are now. Doctors know exactly what they're doing. I don't think a lot of women even believe they're killing a life, at least in our current culture, so I can't quite consider them "murderers." Maybe treat it like negligent manslaughter? I'm not sure.
It should become illegal for women to be in what is known as a contraceptive desert. Birth control must be free and available to every woman. Rape has to equal a much higher consequence than it does now, perhaps the death penalty or life in prison without parole. Because if that woman becomes pregnant she has only two options. Either giving the baby up and adoption is only possible if her genes and social status is desirable, otherwise the child will likely end up in a social services situation. Or she will be forced to care for a child she did not want. Asking women or people to abstain from sex if they do not want children is at best wishful thinking, at worst asking them to abstain from a base human desire or need, which will never happen. You cannot disallow birth control and disallow abortion at the same time, so something has to give. And the doctors that choose to do the abortions that women will get anyway, because they always have and always will find a way, will I guess need to be charged with murder. Same as the mother. Also, if there is a forced adoption situation, then the foster care system has to completely change. People have to be truly accountable for these forced births. No more of the truly awful, heartbreaking system that exists today. If a child is born that no one wants, someone needs to care for that child. With full monetary care, the taxpayers will take on the responsibility to raise that child as if the government were its mother and a middle class to well off family. The kids deserve that much. We cannot force women to have them and then forget about them.
Are you talking about hormonal birth control in particular? The only reason I disagree with this is that hormonal birth control doesn't work well for everyone. It can have horrible side-effects, and giving it to young girls and telling them they are safe to have sex is irresponsible. Even though it has a great success rate when taken perfectly, I don't know a single person who takes any pill perfectly. I also know that hormonal birth control doesn't do anything to protect against STDs. Which is why I'd rather push condoms. I know when my sons grow up i'll be drilling it in that a condom is 100% necessary every single time, even if she says shes on birth control.  That should be free/accessible to every person.
I mean the more forms of contraception being used the better. Condoms alone are pretty unsuccessful but they definitely have their uses. But there are many other options beyond the pill.
Yeah, I agree with that. I just feel like so many people push hormonal birth control on women as a way to solve all their problems, and that just isn't going to happen..which is why I like to get clarification when someone talks about birth control that they aren't just talking about the pill, which in my experience, they generally are.
Ah ok. You know, I hear women saying that "people push hormonal birth control on women as a way to solve all their problems," and I believe it must happen, but I never witness it or hear about it directly.
It happened to me personally at least 6 different points in my life. I keep trying to explain to my doctors that every type of hbc I've taken, I've tried to kill myself within a week because it totally fucks with my brain. They never listen and just keep saying that it probably wasn't the birth control. It was. I even had a doctor try to talk me out of removing an IUD because I wanted to get pregnant in the future and she couldn't wrap her head around it. But that's just my story. It happens a lot.
Wow, that's all really fucked up.
My SO has had bad run ins with doctors before, their bias seems to leak into their prescriptions apparently
"Hi doctor, I came in because I think I broke my foot.." "Well I see here you're not taking any birth control." Mild exaggeration.
That’s a good point, but I was focusing more on whether you thought there needs to be a perfect climate to exist before we make abortion illegal, or if we should start with making abortion illegal first, then focusing on improving the societal conditions necessary for the outlawing to work.
That makes sense. There will never be a perfect climate because people are assholes, the government would rather spend money on rich people than the actual people who need help, and theres a huge section of the population that thinks its fine to kill pre-born humans no matter what alternatives women have. Because of that, I think they need to start at the same time. While we make abortion illegal, we need to also start implementing an infrastructure that helps women in crisis pregnancies. I will mention though that there are a lot of countries that do have resources that help pregnant woman, including health care, subsidies,  other financial resources, etc, and abortion is still legal. Its not legal to the point it is in America, because most countries restrict it to early abortions, but still legal.
If there more nuanced politicians (republicans) out there that held these beliefs, I think that it’d help the pro-life movement out tremendously. Even if they think it’s murder from conception, keep winning ground inch by inch until we get to a point in society where abortions are no longer necessary. You are right though about some of the pro-choice side though, they see no problem with convienence abortions.
I'm talking about whatever birth control the woman desires and works best for her. This is about the woman being able to take charge of her own reproduction to the best of her ability. Also, it is about what happens if that method fails and she does not want the pregnancy. It is about the government being responsible afterward.
I disagree with the free contraception.    Why?  It is so cheap anyways but why should any tax dollars go there?  The government should get it off or lives and bedrooms.... that said if that was a way to stop the killing of innocent little babies I would be ok with almost anything.....
They should get out of our bedrooms IF THEY DON'T LIKE IT, but if they do then the more the merrier! /s Also if the government would pay for it, that $9/month for the generic Sprintec at walgreens could be much better spent buying another half of a gram of marijuana or something.
You don't get to say what is cheap and what isn't if you are legislating abortion to be illegal. You are saying women only have three choices to avoid pregnancy. Either abstain, which should not be legislated by anyone, ever. Take birth control, or put the baby up for adoption. If those are the choices and the only choices, birth control absolutely should be readily available and provided free of charge.
Great answer. Now, would all these scenarios have to already exist in order for abortion to be illegal? Or would you rather abortion become illegal and then work on making that “desert” disappear?
I think in order to responsibly make abortion illegal, the deserts have to be gone by the time abortion law changes.
You're saying that sometimes it's irresponsible to prevent innocent lives from being ended?
What I'm saying is that your definition of life and mine are clearly different in this case and that is actually irrelevant to the question. These are the things that would need to happen if it were to become illegal, for it to be sustainable.
Yes, like people would need to re-learn sexual continence and where babies come from. I wonder, does your logic with this transfer to eating? It's human nature to seek out sweet, fatty foods. Given the option, most people want those over oats and beans. An enlarging (heh) portion of our population is forgetting that the bodily function of eating makes things happen to our body, in much the same way we're forgetting that the bodily function of sex makes babies. Despite the human nature of seeking out high calorie, high carb foods, the healthy (both physically and mentally healthy) and sustainable way to conduct our lives is to control our own actions and enjoy food as it's meant to be enjoyed. Should the government fund gastric bypass for everyone so nobody has to live by reality's rules and everybody can eat whatever they want whenever the hedonistic urge strikes? We know where obesity comes from. We know where babies come from.
This is really only the case for older children. People prefer to adopt infants, and there's a waiting list for parents looking to do so.
But would it be that way if the need and demand were to potentially match?
The demand far outpaces the supply, so that's a pretty "out there" hypothetical.
Why are some people able to abstain from sex but others are not? Do you think no one is?
I think it is human nature to have sex and that people will follow their nature the majority of the time. Also, it is a basic human right that no one should be able to legislate. Now if you are saying we should legislate whether or not people can have sex and in what situations that is a completely separate issue entirely. Also, I am married and feel that I am entitled to sex, but I do not want children. I feel if abortion were illegal, the governing body that made it that way should be responsible for my contraception.
A huge majority of babies were born in wedlock 60 years ago. How did they manage? Yes, every 100th person knew a girl who knew a girl who went to live with her aunt and give the baby up for adoption, but that was rare, and in any case she made it 9 months just fine and went on with her life and nobody had to be killed did they? Its also human nature to lie, cheat,  and steal, yet fraud and theft are illegal. Shouldn't the government that made those things illegal be responsible for your other unreasonable wants too?
These are completely different concepts. Sex is a healthy, natural part of life. It is not over indulging. Women deserve the chance to own their own sexuality and that should involve the choice to terminate a pregnancy. If that gets taken away, then it is only right to stop fighting insurance covering birth control in all cases and free contraception for those without insurance. I do not want a baby, I'm married. Now if I got pregnant despite birth control I would terminate the pregnancy. If that choice was taken away from me. It only seems right that the government deals with the consequences of that. You cannot expect me not to have sex. That is ridiculous. And if I have a child it should be the governments responsiblity to care for the child I never wanted to begin with.
They are not different concepts. They are both urges evolved to sustain life by means of neurochemical reward systems.  It is as healthy to enjoy sex as it as healthy to enjoy delicious meals. Absolutely. We love to do it and we should do it, but we shouldn't do it to the extent that it harms ourselves or others. Unreasonable use of perfectly good and healthy bodily faculties has consequences and it's not anyone else's problem that you can't find the gumption to control yourself. Don't eat 3700 calories a day if you're gonna whine that working out is too hard. Have sex during your period, or 3 days before or 3 days after. Or at least not on days 10-17. It's not rocket surgery. And if you fail, as some do (especially when they live in a society that pre-emptively makes excuses for them), the great news is that 9 months is nothing and millions of parents are scrambling to adopt your baby.
This is so entitled and ridiculous. Some women dont have nine months to waste. Not to mention not everyone has regular cycles and that is not at all a reliable form of birth control. I would not rely on that method without actual medical birth control. Thus it should be free and readily available, since you want to take abortion away from women. You dont get to decide oh well oops you got pregnant, go ahead and have the baby and give it to someone else. No big deal. What happens if the child is disabled? What if something were to happen to the mother while pregnant? What about lost wages during pregnancy? Because again, not everyone in your plan can afford birth control or has insurance and you feel like "family planning" with its much less than reliable methods should be enough for them.
Sorry, wages are not worth stopping a beating heart for. I say this as someone who had an unintended baby out of wedlock on welfare. Disabilities?  Disabled people have the right to not be killed. Who is entitled?  Me? What do i get out of it? The baby? Yeah, i think all human beings are entitled to continue living their life. Or you, who thinks sex whenever the tingle hits ya is worth killing living human beings for? At the very least the government needs to accommodate your inability to make prudent decisions about whether you should have sex right this moment or not? Or else you'll have to kill someone?
Again, calling a bundle of cells without a heartbeat a person is taking a very big dramatic leap.


I hope so
You and me both.  At least they'll actually get a chance to vote on it, unlike here where some unelected justices took care of that for us.
This is the best tl;dr I could make, original reduced by 90%. (I'm a bot) Extended Summary | FAQ | Feedback | Top keywords: vote#1 Trump#2 America#3 McCabe#4 people#5

Certain elements in the pro-life movement repeatedly want to expand discussions about abortion to discussions about capital punishment, etc, because 'All of these are pro-life issues!' I wonder what will happen if people keep injecting abortion into capital punishment and other issues in turn? I have a feeling the people pushing for a 'seamless garment' approach are going to dive for the scissors, quickly.
punishment implies they did anything wrong
They inconvenienced their mother /s
That's delusional...you cannot compare sexual assault and sexual abuse to abortion. At least aborting early pregnancies,like 4 or 5 weeks,shall always be permissible everywhere...i do think,that they majority of people(and pro-lifers)would agree in those instances. Let people do as they please with their bodies,as long as the pregnancy is early and there's no crucial fetal development.
True.  Abortion is murder, not assault. Absolutely wrong. People can do whatever they want with their bodies, but leave the child's body alone.
I respectfully disagree. I’m a pro life woman, and I believe the entire period of gestation is a phase of the human life span, no different than puberty (for example).  The bar should be set very, very high when contemplating ending an innocent life, and I don’t think there are very many realistic situations that clear this hurdle, even early on.
This State Senate race WILL decide who will control the NY State Senate, Shelley Mayer (Democrat) is running for election to this seat, she is very pro abortion and is open about her intention to make New York's abortion laws even more radical than they already are. Here's how you can help STOP her!:Volunteer: We need people on the ground making sure voters turnout and you can help even if you're from another state or district (by travelling here or phone banking), more info here - http://www.juliekillian.com/volunteerDonating: At the moment the Democrats are leading in fundraising and has been given thousands by radical pro abortion groups. Julie needs YOUR help to bridge this gap and you can do so here - http://www.juliekillian.com/donateKeep informed: You can keep informed of the latest campaign news here - https://twitter.com/killian4senateVoting: Perhaps the most important job of all! Make sure you get out to vote on April 24th 2018 (AND BRING EVERYONE YOU KNOW!!!)! If you need to register to vote then see here (don't assume you're registered, check!): https://vote.gov/Absentee: If you're serving in the military or aren't able to make it to election day for ANY reason see here for absentee ballots: https://www.elections.ny.gov/NYSBOE/download/voting/AbsenteeBallot-English.pdfIf you know anyone (like family or friends) who are too ill to go out and vote then make sure they get to vote absentee by filling out form above and then deliver it to the Westchester county Board of Elections!: http://www.elections.ny.gov:8080/plsql_browser/county_boards?county_in=WestchesterIf you don't know your polling place then check here: https://voterlookup.elections.state.ny.us/votersearch.aspxIf you're not sure if this is your district then check here: https://openstates.org/find_your_legislator/
I will tell my uncle about this. He is there. I live in Brooklyn.
Thank you.
You are welcome!
You are really politically active in almost every state! How do you even find out about these races?
I found out about this one from Ballotpedia: https://ballotpedia.org/State_legislative_special_elections,_2018 Also 270 to win is pretty helpful for finding congress races: https://www.270towin.com/2018-senate-election/ https://www.270towin.com/2018-house-election/
I cannot overstate the importance of this race. If the Democrat candidate wins then it is extremely likely that we will see a new abortion law that has more holes in than Swiss cheese and that will be far, far more extreme than even the current law.
Taking a quick look at their site, they don't seem to be trying to prevent additional abortions at all, and in fact ban important discussion about regret that might convince pregnant women who are trying to decide what to do to Not abort their child.  Are the mods sure they want to include that link?
So far in 2018 we have seen numerous special elections in the states being won by the pro abortion Democrats. Here's how we can help turn back that tide:Florida - State Senate District 31 (Palm Beach County)Vote (Tami L. Donnally) - https://www.pbcelections.org/precinctfinder.aspxVolunteer - Contact tami@tamidonnally.comIowa - State Senate District 25 (Butler, Grundy, Hardin and Storey)Vote (Annette Sweeney) - https://sos.iowa.gov/elections/voterreg/pollingplace/search.aspxVolunteer - https://www.iowagop.org/volunteer/
I'm not here to argue about abortion. I completely get that people who see it as murder would want to end the practice, and I think sometimes the accusations of anti-abortion policies being anti-woman is unfair.My question is this: why do pro-life organizations like the March for Life or Susan B. Anthony List not speak up when politicians (and let's face it, mostly Republicans) introduce or pass legislation making it easier to disregard animal life?I'm using animal to mean non-human - but we're animals too. In my view, though I'm sure many here would disagree (you're welcome to do so in the comments), homo sapiens is just a bipedal primate with above average cranial capacity. But I don't think you need to believe this to want to protect animal life.This recent news in particular is what spurred my question.I used to consider myself a Republican (until Trump won the nomination), and I still consider myself conservative on many issues, but I could never bring myself to vote GOP due to their horrendous environmental record.I get that these groups are primarily anti-abortion, and this is why they generally support the GOP, but I don't see why they can't speak out against people like Scott Pruitt or Susan Combs (the woman in the article I linked).
I see such comments a lot. "If you are so pro-life, why don't you talk about _______" fill in the blank. From what I have seen, the pro-life movement ought to be fighting for: the environment, transgender rights, mental health, gun control, universal healthcare, etc. etc. The truth is, "pro-life" in many ways is a marketing term. We are really anti-abortion. That's it. Those of us here, for whatever reason and without all subscribing to some overarching moral framework, have concluded that abortion is fundamentally wrong. In reality, that is probably the only thing that unites us; we are very diverse group with people of all stripes who have come to the same conclusion on one, single issue. So, in all practicality, we could not expand what we fight for. Moreover, as others have mentioned, this single focus allows us greater efficacy in reaching our goals.
This is an important point. The two positions (with grey area for many people) are pro-abortion rights and anti-abortion. Pro-life, pro-choice, anti-choice, etc., are either ways to sanitize the debate or attempt to hurl an insult. I had someone in another sub call me pro-birth as if that were an insult. Yes, I believe every human being conceived has a right to attempt to make it to birth, so I’m pro-birth. I don’t believe in the argumentation approach that negates a person’s opinion on one issue by saying it is incompatible with other opinions they may hold. That is, “You can’t call yourself pro-life unless you are also vegan, against the death penalty, against personal possession of guns, etc.” That said, I think there is a penumbra that surrounds deeply held beliefs. I am pro-life, and I think that respect for life extends to how I treat animals and even plants. But it doesn’t necessarily put my opinions on public policy in those areas in a certain political camp.
Because the pro-life movement is currently focused on preserving human life. Most I'm sure would tell you that they want to protect the environment and animals as well, but like most movements, to be effective they need to have a single focus.
For me and many pro-lifers this is not a matter of "just."  We find human beings vastly more valuable than other animals. For me personally the unique, unparalleled ability of human beings matters -- morality, creativity, technology, logic, etc -- is what makes them more valuable than other animals. I don't, however, believe this gives leeway to torture other animals or wipe them out of existence. Humans being more valuable doesn't mean other animals have no value. So I understand what you're saying and agree.
There are already animal rights groups to do what you're talking about. To be effective, a group needs a narrow mission statement; you won't get very far with a group that has a goal of eliminating all bad things from the world.
“Pro-life” isn’t a 100% accurate name just like “pro-choice isn’t a completely accurate name. We are for the protection of all human life because we don’t believe humans are simply “bipedal primates with above average cranial capacity.” There are many things special about us that make us superior like creativity, altruism, complex relationships, etc. Many of us are religious, though not all, and believe that we have a much higher intrinsic value than animals that is given to us by our Creator. Therefore, we see the prevention of the killing of over a million unborn babies per year as our primary goal. Many of us extend our pro-life beliefs to those on death row, though that only affects about 25 people per year so is not nearly as big of an issue right now. My main point is that just because we don’t specify in our name, we only officially fight for human lives. Compare this to those who are pro-choice. They don’t believe everyone should get to choose to do whatever they want without any restrictions, just when it comes to abortion. I’ll also point out that your question seems to be more targeted towards republicans, so you may want to ask this on the republican or conservative subreddit. This sub is filled with pro-life of multiple party affiliations
Both creativity and complex relationships are been exhibited by non-humans. And altruism is far too rare for me to consider it a shared human trait.
Well probably the same reason that you don't defend the life of a fly, or worm, or blade of grass. Or maybe you do not sure? We value human life more than other animals. Human beings are vastly superior in many ways. And yes, you may not agree but all you have to do is look around and see. No animal has ever written a symphony, built a castle or written a book. Those are just tiny examples. I'm not saying animals don't deserve any rights. But I think it's fair to say that most people agree that there is something special about humans. Plus preservation of our own species.
A castle is just a large defensive structure. There are hundreds of animal species that make those, with social insects like ants, bees, and termites building structures so complex we still don't fully understand them. And no animal has ever created symphonies or books, because that requires a system of writing, which humans didn't develop until a little over 5000 years ago (and there are many isolated tribes in South America and Africa that still don't have a system of writing, nor have they ever built castles). There are also many things that animals can do that humans cannot, such as a whale's sonar or dolphin's echolocation - and I'm sure if the situation were reversed they would use those as examples of superiority. I do think preservation of our species is a valid reason, though one I don't really agree with. There's a multitude of evidence to argue that humanity doesn't deserve to continue.
Yes, except a human being can get through anyone of those. But an animal is not going to get through a castle (plus it was just a simple example, the point was that human's have built all kinds of architectural structure that animals can not even come close to replicating). Those tribes in Africa if given the means can easily learn to write. Try teaching a dog the ABC's. :) Animals can do many things, it's true. But even those things humans can replicate with modern technology. Deserve is a subjective idea. We are surviving so the proof is in the actual reality. Anyway, like I said, I don't think it's a difficult concept to grasp even if you don't agree with it. It's like being prochoice. I don't agree with it but I get that if you don't view a preborn child as a valuable human person then this is where the logic leads. So, if you believe that human beings have the right to life then you are going to be against abortion. But you might not necessarily extend that right to every living thing.
Can't really speak for pro-lifers or conservatives on this matter as I am a vegan, but I was going to post a very similar question regarding this because it definitely doesn't make sense to me. i see many parallels between the pro-life movement and the animal rights movement, to the point where it almost seems hypocritical to me for pro-lifers to be eating meat and dairy, especially dairy. My best guess would be either cognitive dissonance and the fact that many pro-lifers do lean towards to more conservative end of the spectrum (but tbh, both sides aren't great when it comes to animal rights)
There are many parallels but you'd have to ignore pro-lifers' core reasoning to conclude we're just employing cognitive dissonance. Most pro-lifers value human life over other animal life for various reasons. See my other comment.
if your core aim is to prevent the killing of unborn babies, why do you value human life over animal life? Most of the animals we eat are sentient beings capable of intelligence, morality, creativity, logic, so why do you distinguish so heavily between human and non-human unborn? We evolved from common ancestors after all. When you compare human embryo's to non-human embryo's such as a fish or cow or cat, they look incredibly similar, and when a mother cow has her baby taken away from her, or loses the baby, they demonstrate the same amount of distress and trauma that a human mother would, so why would it make any difference? With all due respect, it does seem like cognitive dissonance to me. If the true aim of the pro-life movement is to make abortion seem morally unacceptable, how is it okay to do it to animals, especially when it is completely unnecessary? It seems to me that that would fit under the 'single focus' view.
So? Humans and E. coli evolved from a common ancestor too.
Not close to the same degree as humans. That's why I said "unparalleled." Looks are irrelevant. As I mentioned before, an instance of similarity ignores all the differences that inform our perspective. You're basically saying "cows who lose their babies are as distressed as humans who lose their babies so cows and humans are basically equivalent." No, they're not. The only way to claim cognitive dissonance - or the state of having inconsistent thoughts - is to show pro-lifers are employing one stance unequally. You haven't shown that. You've just asserted it. Human animals and other animals are different. Those differences are why pro-lifers value humans over other animals. You have to completely ignore this to assert that pro-lifers are employing cognitive dissonance.
Do you have proof that they're not? Because the presence of maternal bonds and emotions in non-human mammals are well-documented.
You're asking me for proof that humans have more extensive ability for cognition, morality, technological advancement, and logical thinking? Are you saying you think cows and humans are on the same level for all these abilities?
No. I'm only talking about emotions/distress. Yes, humans have more complex emotions than cows do, but cows do indeed have emotions. And complex doesn't mean stronger, or more valid. And either way, emotions are just chemical processes in the brain.
Ok, I never denied cows had emotions. My point has consistently been about degree. So is pain. So are memories. So is all cognition. That doesn't mean they're not important. All our values are simply chemical processes in the brain, including your proclaimed value of non-human animals. Your argument is self-defeating.
So why do pro-lifers value human life over animal life when there is no real reason to value the life of an animal less. They are just as capable of feeling pain and suffer from the loss of their children, so why is there this distinctions. We are more similar than we are dissimilar. Society has taught us that animals are there to be used because they are lesser than and not as intelligent, but if you let go of those societal impositions, you realise that there is no reason to hurt animals, and therefore no reason to leave them out of this debate. I am not denying that humans and other species are not different, they clearly are, what i am saying is that the only reason you see animals that can in many ways be seen as more intelligent or superior to humans as lesser than, is because of what you've been taught. Can you migrate hundreds of miles using only your memory to guide you like a whale? Studies have shown that whales and dolphins have far greater methods of communication than we can ever hope to achieve, because they have different, more advanced brain structures. Why is it you'd object to the killing of puppies and human children, but not to calfs and piglets, when they have shown to be just as intelligent as both of those former animals? Ignoring all religious factors since this is supposed to be a secular discussion, there is no good reason to think that killing unborn animals is okay while killing unborn humans is not, no?
Because we don't believe that the ability to feel pain should be the deciding factor? You're saying that people who disagree with you are being hypocrites because they're not consistently following your belief system.
i'm saying that if you believe that the fact that you value human life over animal life is a good enough reason to kill the babies of animals, logically it should follow that you believe that it is okay for a woman to value her own life over the life of her foetus. In both circumstances there are stark differences between the two beings, and in both circumstances, not killing the animal foetus/human foetus wouldn't result in the death of the adult. you've also got to remember that i'm not espousing my own belief system here, i'm pointing out your own hypocrisy
That's the problem, though. That's not what I believe at all.
There is a real reason -- non-human animals have far less ability to reason, to employ morality, to create, and so on. Those things are valuable to pro-lifers. That's one thing which you haven't even provided evidence for as far as equality. The things cows and humans differ on are more important than the things we are similar on. "No" reason? I think hurting animals for no reason would be immoral, but we eat animals. That's a reason. You disagreeing with that reason doesn't mean it's not a reason. You're employing a strawman argument. You consistently fail to demonstrate that you even grasp the reasoning of people you disagree with. Non-human animals absolutely have many abilities humans do not. No one is denying that. But assessed as a whole, with all abilities in mind, humans have more of what I'd (and other pro-lifers) consider the more valuable abilities. I've never objected to killing puppies. Seriously, the strawman arguments need to stop.
in addition to this, your argument that pro-lifers simply find the lives of humans more valuable than animals is invalid, and i find it hypocritical too. Pro-choicers believe that the life of the mother is more valuable than the life of the foetus, does this make their opinion okay to you?
I understand you disagree with the value of many pro-lifers. That doesn't make them hypocritical unless they are using their reasoning inconsistently -- something you still have failed to show. Asserting =/= explaining. Pro-choicers believe the life of the mother is more valuable than the life of the fetus: I disagree with this value. But that doesn't make them hypocrites/inconsistent.
except you are using your reasoning inconsistently, you argue that the fact that you value human life over animal life is a good enough reason to kill the babies of animals, and yet also argue that it is not okay for a woman to value her own life over the life of her foetus and thus think that killing a foetus is okay in addition to this, i have shown that animals and humans can be considered on an equal footing when it comes to considering their value and how much they suffer from having their children killed. there is no substantial difference between humans and non-humans to justify valuing the suffering of their children as any less than the suffering of human children. i have also shown that considering how completely unnecessary it is to cause animal suffering. the fact that you value human life over animal life is irrelevant, we're talking about morals, and yours aren't consistent with themselves, or with basic biology.
We all have differing values. We all try to employ our values through law. You are totally welcome to attempt to employ your values of non-human animals into law. I will oppose you because I disagree with your values. Similarly, I will try to employ my values of unborn humans into law and pro-choicers will oppose me because they disagree with my values. Everyone is free to both logically convince people of the merit of their values and to enforce their values through law, whether I agree with their values or not. So I fail to see what is inconsistent about my stance. No, you haven't. You asserted that cows grieve equally to humans but have not yet backed this up with any evidence. Meanwhile, there's a multitude of arenas in which other animals are inferior to humans which people like myself find very important. No matter what you find important here, that doesn't speak to what I find important. There are absolutely differences between non-human animals and humans. Again, no, you haven't. You just asserted it. ...what do you think morals are if not a product of our values?

Would you share more of your thoughts with me?  Why dairy, specifically?
Most people don't believe animals have rights.
Fact is, a good deal of pro-life support comes from religious organisations. As far as the bible is concerned eating meat is perfectly acceptable.
Never said it wasn't, nor is my post about eating meat.
Because lots of pro-lifers(not all)are hypocrites...being pro-life means that you believe that all life has value...plenty of pro-life people are also pro death penalty,pro fur-trade,anti-environmentalists etc. Look at those guys who were shooting up ob/gyns for performing abortions and were calling themselves pro-life...that's the ultimate hypocrisy.
No, it doesn't. Not any more than being pro-choice means you oppose all restrictions on choice.

This senate race in 2018 could decide who will control the Senate so we have to go ALL OUT to win it! Here's how YOU can help:Volunteer: We need people on the ground making sure voters turnout and you can help even if you're from another state (by travelling here or phone banking), more info here - https://www.kevincramer.org/volunteer/Donating: At the moment the Democrat is leading in fundraising and has been given millions by radical pro abortion organizations . Kevin needs YOUR help to bridge this gap and you can do so here - https://www.kevincramer.org/contribute/Keep informed: You can keep informed of the latest campaign news here - https://twitter.com/kevincramerVoting: Perhaps the most important job of all! Make sure you get out to vote on November 6th 2018! If you need to register to vote then see here: https://vote.gov/Absentee: If you're serving in the military or aren't able to make it to election day for ANY reason see here for absentee ballots: https://www.fvap.gov/
If you don't want Planned Parenthood to be funded again in 2018 then we HAVE to get rid of Heitkamp! Without her vote in the Senate we will be in a MUCH stronger position in 2019 and beyond!
https://www.lifesitenews.com/news/planned-parenthood-fined-116k-for-failing-to-report-payments-to-hillary-cliPlanned Parenthood are also planning to spend $20 million to elect Democrats across the country, we CANNOT let them succeed!

Maybe, just maybe, government budgets shouldn't be allocated according to who the party likes the most?
Planned Parenthood and the political arm are technically different groups. The Political arm gets most of its money from donors (like Soros and others).
Money is fungible If we weren't bankrolling them, they'd have to shift some of that private funding to regular operations
Money is fungible within Planned Parenthood itself. Planned Parenthood's political arm is a separate organization.
Read the second line
Color me unsurprised.

Lets be honest here,whether you're pro-life or pro-choice,all you understand that being seropositive is one of the worst conditions that someone has to live with...living with hiv is simply suffering.I've met plenty of hiv positive folks,who were born with hiv and nearly all of them have told me,that they'd wish that they'd have been aborted...i also know two individuals that commited suicide,after finding out that they're hiv positive(look at the suicide rates that hiv positive people have).Even taking antiretroviral therapy doesn't do anything...you'll never enjoy life,you'll never be able to have a functioning relationship,sex,kids etc...who wants to kiss or have sex with an hiv positive individual?literally no one....you'll also be subjected to racism and discrimination about your condition in everyday life and you'll probably end up being a criminal or being a junkie to survive and cope with your suffering.Simply giving birth to an hiv positive baby,is immoral...he/she'll never experience life to the fullest...and giving it up away for adoption is not the solution either...growing up in an orphanage is not a life,its hardship.
Uhh maybe like 30 years ago. Nowadays it's easily treated and people live normal lives. In any case someone having a disease is not a reason to kill them. It's a reason to treat and help them. Where in the world do you live?

If we're talking about abortion, yes, it is. An embryo is alive. An abortion kills it. People live their entire lives with normal CD4 counts and undetectable HIV antigen levels. You talk about HIV as if people are just suffering constantly and it couldn't be further from the truth. That's 100% wrong. HAART works. Yes these medications have side effects, sometimes devastating. This certainly isn't the rule. To suggest we should kill anyone with HIV outright is as ridiculous as saying we should kill anyone with any kind of cancer. Do you have HIV or know someone with HIV?
HAART works as in keeping the condition managed...but there's no cure. You talk as if living with hiv is easy...and of course i've met plenty of seropositive individuals...the undetectable antigen levels don't mean that you're not susceptible to opportunistic infections...all of the people even if they have less than 100k copies per mm3 of blood and more than 300 CD4 cells are still susceptible to opportunistic infections and other diseases such as hsv,hpv,pneumonocystis pneumonia and carinii(which are both deadly to the immuno-compromised). Also depends on what do you mean about abortion...in which state...its entirely different to say that a 20 week abortion is murder,as it is and a 2 week old fetus is alive,as its not,its a clump of cells. The first is immoral but the second is persmissible.
I know, there's no cure. But HAART can keep HIV at bay very well. No, the high CD4 counts do. Normal CD4 levels mean you're not at any higher risk for opportunistic infection than other people. I didn't say murder. I said it kills. Any abortion at any stage kills a living human organism; that's a scientific fact.
That's actually not a scientific fact as you're asserting...the premise that life begins at the conception is the religious one...the concept that abortion is murder is simply a subjective opinion. If it was murder,it would've been outlawed by now,if all doctors,philosophers and scientists agree,then they must know something more than both of us(and i am going to believe them).
That's BS: "Fertilization – the fusion of gametes to produce a new organism – is the culmination of a multitude of intricately regulated cellular processes." [Marcello et al., Fertilization, ADV. EXP. BIOL. 757:321 (2013)] "The zygote and early embryo are living human organisms.”[Keith L. Moore & T.V.N. Persaud Before We Are Born – Essentials of Embryology and Birth Defects (W.B. Saunders Company, 1998. Fifth edition.) Page 500] "Although life is a continuous process, fertilization is a critical landmark because, under ordinary circumstances, a new, genetically distinct human organism is thereby formed."[O'Rahilly, Ronan and Muller, Fabiola. Human Embryology & Teratology. 2nd edition. New York: Wiley-Liss, 1996, pp. 8, 29.] "The development of a human begins with fertilization, a process by which the spermatozoon from the male and the oocyte from the female unite to give rise to a new organism, the zygote."[Sadler, T.W. Langman's Medical Embryology. 7th edition. Baltimore: Williams & Wilkins 1995, p. 3] Now, again, where are your citations that an organism begins at the heart-beat?
Look, I'm pretty darn pro-choice, and I don't think this makes sense. If I had a patient tell me they were getting an abortion because of the risk of vertical transmission of HIV... I mean, I don't see how that could actually be their reason.  And I've talked to a lot of people about their reasons. If I had to choose between HIV and diabetes, I'd pick HIV -- and I'm not alone in this choice. This is false.
You've never met an hiv positive individual then...and also severe fetal defects(like hiv)or conditions that'll compromise the life of the fetus,are very valid reasons to have an abortion. If you're pro-choice as you're saying then you'll support the choice of an individual to have an abortion at this scenario. If I had to choose between HIV and diabetes, I'd pick HIV -- and I'm not alone in this choice. Tha's a false equivalency...hiv is incomparable with diabetes...two different conditions. 2. This is false. Nope as i said,this is true...hiv will severely compromise your life and your relationships...it'll be way tougher to find a romantic partner...and lets be honest here,we both know it,that sex and relationships are a pretty darn an important part of human experience. P.S I am pro-choice as well and that means that i'll endorse the choice of a couple to abort an hiv positive baby for the reasons stated above...you shall do the same.
.....did you just suggest a doctor has never actually met an HIV positive individual? lol
I mean, broadly speaking, I support people's choices to have abortions in a wide variety of scenarios.  But sometimes people say reasons that make me go over their reasoning one more time.  Reasons like, "I'm worried because the father has a bad heart disease."  I'm going to say, "well, are you worried about it being genetic?  Are you worried about him being able to take care of the baby?" Because I'd hate for them to get the termination, and it was actually because they thought Lipitor was bad for the father to take during pregnancy (not the dumbest misunderstanding that has happened) and then they learn it could have been fine and now they're sad. Same deal here.  Patients who generally want a pregnancy but are declining because of their hiv status... like, if their HIV is currently uncontrolled and they want to have it controlled before they're pregnant, fine.  But for well-controlled HIV, they generally speaking want a bio-child of their own, and the only reason they're telling me is vertical transmission?  Doesn't pass the sniff test. First, it wasn't an equivalency. Second, do you only compare things that are the same?  I usually compare things when they're different. So many things in life are uncertain.  The idea of somebody telling me (at, what, eight weeks gestation?) that they wouldn't normally want a termination, but because of their hiv, and their concern for vertical transmission, they want a termination... I'd be like, "it sounds like what you want is careful management of your hiv and a cesarean at 39 weeks and careful pediatric care."  We can get that risk of vertical transmission pretty darn low, to the point where it's comparable to the regular risks of conditions that make it hard to find a romantic partner, like being a Brony.  Every pregnancy has a risk that the kid's going to wind up being a Brony.
Would you murder someone that contracted it as an adult?
I'd assume the baby has HIV because the mother has HIV. Parents can give birth without transmitting to the child. If they didn't take those measures to prevent it, it's their fault and the child shouldn't have to die because of it. People live long healthy lives with HIV and to kill them because they will live a life you find undesirable is ridiculous.
There's a very miniscule risk of non transmission,if you take azt(zidovudine)or trizivir(zidovidune,lamivudine,abacavir)you have around 10% of success rate...so we're talking about very small probabilities here. Giving birth to a child with hiv,will simply cause the child to suffer...the child probably is going to kill him/herself,be a criminal,use drugs or being shunned by society and men/women. Having an abortion is simply preventing their suffering.
Wow, you have a really low opinion of HIV-positive people, don't you?
Not at all...that's wasn't my point...society has a low opinion of seropositive individuals...that's why they're more likely to experience suicidal ideation due to societal discrimination. People(and especially pro-lifers)need to think about the aftermath of their actions...actions have consequences...simply giving birth to a child like this in this world state,is immoral.
The aftermath of the actions you're proposing is that they end up dead. If being dead is so much preferable to living with HIV, why do we even bother treating HIV at all? Why don't we just start euthanizing people at the first sign of infection?
Would you say the same thing about someone who is born? Should we kill people just because they might suffer? Should we kill people even though there's a chance they could be perfectly fine?
That's an entirely different concept...you cannot compare a grown up human being with a 4 week old fetus for example...they're just simply incomparable. As for saying though,i support capital punishment for violent criminals as also voluntary euthanasia or castration for pedophiles and rapists(those who cannot control themselves and their urges). Why we law-abiding citizens should we keep violent criminals alive,or people who're suffering,threatening our lives and our bodily integrity?
I mean...I can compare them because a 4 week old fetus is just an earlier stage of human development. Your insistence that it isn't implies that the morality of killing someone decreases with age. Is it more ok to kill someone the younger they are? An adult and a fetus  are both human beings, one is just younger and less developed. An infant is also less developed. Humans don't finish development til somewhere around 25 years of age. Picking a point anywhere between conception and then would be entirely arbitrary.
Life doesn't essentially start at conception...life starts when a person retains consciousness,or retains bodily movement and the most important aspect of life is the existence of a heart beat...if there's no heart beat,there's no life. Look at my flair,as you'll see i vehemently endorse abortion at around 6-7 weeks...that's the time when the fetus starts to become a human...that's the time when the fetus start to retain its consciousness(brain development starts at 7 weeks),that's the time when the first heart-beats start to be dished out. Till then,you can use your body as you please and that means that you have the undeniable right to have an abortion(as long as you're not directly harming anyone)...after 7 weeks its an entirely different issue.
I don't even know where to start. There is so many scientifically incorrect statements here. Life does, for a fact, begin at conception. Your thoughts and opinions, fortunately, have nothing to do with it. To say that "...life starts when a person retains consciousness,or retains bodily movement and the most important aspect of life is the existence of a heart beat...if there's no heart beat,there's no life." Would be to say that an absence to those things constitute a non-life. Not all living things have hearts, are conscious, or  have "experiences" in the way you mean. I think it would help for you to study up on the claims you are making. That's not even bringing up the fact that your criteria are completely arbitrary and have nothing to do with whether they are a human or not. I think you might also be mistaking part vs whole. An embryo is a whole and complete human being from conception. They have everything they will ever require to complete development at adulthood. They are not part of a human or a potential human. They are, factually, a complete human. How do you argue with pro-choicers who think that limiting abortion to 7 weeks is ridiculous?
The thing is there's no scientific proof that life begins at conception,not an established theory,all individual assertions...all we know logically and morally,that the existence of a heart-beat is what constitutes a living organism...if there's no heart-beat,the person is pronounced dead by the whole medical community for example. As i've said before as long as you're not harming anybody what you do with your body is no business of the state(and clearly abortions of 6 weeks fetuses harm no one,as in this state the fetus is not a life)...fyi in my country abortion is banned after 8 weeks...its allowed only in instances of rape,incest,life of mother,severe fetal defects or other socioeconomic reasons...the first 8 weeks its your choice to make...i'd personally want the limit at 7 weeks because i like it better that way. Plenty of countries do ban abortions after 8 weeks,i'd suggest you look at the different abortion laws,in different countries...abortion should've been at the cuttoff of 7 weeks years ago,simply the other pro-choicers are ridiculous edgy teenagers without a concept of scientific understanding...so i don't need(and there's no reason) to argue(as you're asserting of)with "kids".
Citation? Here are mine: "Fertilization – the fusion of gametes to produce a new organism – is the culmination of a multitude of intricately regulated cellular processes." [Marcello et al., Fertilization, ADV. EXP. BIOL. 757:321 (2013)] "The zygote and early embryo are living human organisms.”[Keith L. Moore & T.V.N. Persaud Before We Are Born – Essentials of Embryology and Birth Defects (W.B. Saunders Company, 1998. Fifth edition.) Page 500] "Although life is a continuous process, fertilization is a critical landmark because, under ordinary circumstances, a new, genetically distinct human organism is thereby formed."[O'Rahilly, Ronan and Muller, Fabiola. Human Embryology & Teratology. 2nd edition. New York: Wiley-Liss, 1996, pp. 8, 29.] "The development of a human begins with fertilization, a process by which the spermatozoon from the male and the oocyte from the female unite to give rise to a new organism, the zygote."[Sadler, T.W. Langman's Medical Embryology. 7th edition. Baltimore: Williams & Wilkins 1995, p. 3]
As you've exactly stated...its a new organism but not a person...it doesn't have the same attributes as fully developed grown human being. A fetus before 7 weeks simply consists of a clump of cells and genetic material...go look at mra images of 6 and 7 week fetuses and you'll understand...now go and look at images of 10 and 12 week fetuses and you'll see that they resemble a human being. Also the brain starts to develop after 7 weeks...there are no brain cells before the 7 weeks,period,so no consiousness(as its a thing that constitutes personhood and life). Simply a 6-7 week fetus isn't a person...it doesn't have the mental capacity to think,talk,feel,live...it cannot survive outside of the womb(zero chances of surviving at this state)it doesn't have a functioning heart(there's no heart beat). So you're granted the right to assert your body as you please...and that means the undeniable right to abortion(at least at this level).

I'll just leave this here...
That's a false assumption...we don't get to choose who lives and who dies,because the fetus is not a life. It isn't so hard to understand...if abortion has been a murder,it would've been outlawed by now...why all philosophers,doctors and bioethicists agree that abortion isn't murder,but only a small amount of the populace disagrees? I am going to believe them,because they got the phd's and the knowledge.
An embryo is most definitely alive. Science proves this. From the moment of conception, a new, unique, and separate human organism is alive and growing. To claim an embryo or fetus is not alive is unscientific. I thought you believed those with PhDs. This is the logical fallacy called an appeal to authority. Philosophers and doctors aren't necessarily correct in their morals. You will also find plenty of doctors, philosophers, and bioethicists that are pro-life. Wrong is wrong, even if everyone thinks it's right.
HIV isn't a race. What? you know who will have sex with an HIV+ person? Another HIV+ person.
That's actually an unfair anallogy...even if two hiv people have sex together,they need to wear condoms as also they cannot have kids. Look up hiv superinfection...if two different strains of hiv merge together they create a new mutated strain of hiv...this can cause resistance to antiretrovirals,making it harder for the hiv person to seek out treatment. Hiv can be transmited by blood,even orally,if the hiv person is a carrier and has stomatitis...if the hiv person has a high viral load you're fucked. Also you need to do tests if you're hiv positive and you're going to have sex with an hiv positive person,to see which hiv strains you both have...and there are more than 50 hiv strains out there. Its not all black and white,as you see.
How old are you
Two HIV positive parent can have a negative baby. The mother does not share blood with the fetus, but transmission of HIV positive blood can occurred durring the birth or via breast milk.
I would not. I lived through the1980s: AIDS was a quick, miserable death sentence. Today, people can live long, primarily-healthy lives with HIV. And that is progress made in 37 years (patient zero in 1981, IIRC).  In 37 more years, we could well have a cure.

Your dedication to the pro-life cause comes into question when you say you are okay with killing on occasion.
And out come the extremists.
And redditors here were asking me if these people exist not 24 hours ago...
This is why hardline prochoicers wont give an inch. The legislation is fairly heavily weighted their way and people want to swing it this far against abortion.
I agree with prison time for people who get abortions, like a mandatory minimum of 10 years but isnt executing them defeating the purpose of pro life laws?
No, that's like saying that executing murderers defeats the purpose of anti-murder laws.
I agree, Im not personally against the death penalty it just seems a little ironic.. But the point is is that the child didnt choose to make that decision and id agree that the mother should be charged with whatever the punishment for murder is
I mean...if the death penalty for drug dealers is reasonable, then surely this is, too? But in all seriousness, I'm ambivalent about this. On the one hand, I do support the death penalty for murderers, but on the other hand, what about forced abortions? Isn't it not that uncommon for a woman to be coerced/threatened/otherwise forced into getting an abortion? And what about minors who get pregnant, panic, and abort? It's still a horrible thing for someone to do, minor or otherwise, but would we seriously be okay with killing children in the name of not killing children? That just doesn't seem right.
When have drug dealers been put to death for dealing drugs?
Life in Prison sounds better
That is a crock of shit...take that fanatic out...the death penalty should only be reserved for criminals. Also even if you disagree with abortion,imprisoning people who disagree with you,is unconstitutional and immoral.
What about murderers?  Surely you agree that murderers aren't imprisoned just because they disagree with us.
Murderers need to be executed by a firing squad...same with rapists and child molesters...if you deprive other people of their rights and their liberties,then you don't deserve to coexist into a civilized society.
So, do you know why I said what I said?
Look at my flair mate...i am pro-choice at 6-7 weeks,as at that time abortion is morally persmissible and its your choice...after 7 weeks when the fetus retains its movement or its heart-beat it becomes an independent organism,so then its another issue.
While I don't think it's permissible even then, I do think that's the most reasonable pro-choice stance I've ever heard.  I don't think punishing women who have had abortions is smart, because they're victims too, but at least from a pro-life standpoint this guy's just looking at things from a murder standpoint.
The way i see it is,as long as you're not harming anyone or anything directly,what you do with your life or your body,is no business of the state. Agree or disagree with abortion,at 6 weeks the baby doesn't have a functioning heart beat...the baby also starts its bodily movements after 8 weeks...so at 6-7 weeks it isn't murder at all...you're allowed to do as you please with your body then. After 7 weeks,approaching 8,then that's entirely another issue,and it needs lots of discussion.
This is the best tl;dr I could make, original reduced by 83%. (I'm a bot) Extended Summary | FAQ | Feedback | Top keywords: abortion#1 Nonini#2 women#3 Republican#4 Idaho#5
Why are there so many pro-life assault weapon ban comparisons? I’m new to this sub and wanted to see what the pro-life community was about and it seems to me there are a couple themes. That pro- choice equates to pro-abortion, planned parenthood as the reaper of unborn children, pro- choice must be liberal Democrats, and pro- life holds a moral foothold. Now I’m not bashing because I understand how woven these concepts are but it seems silly to me. I’m a liberal person who would love to see every child born however the optimist is transformed into a realist. Laws will not stop abortion as much as assault weapons ban will not stop mass shootings, it may drop the rate however back alley abortions are not recorded if it becomes illegal so will that really do anything?
Terrible analogy. Mass shootings are not legal and gun rights people aren't saying they should be.
I feel you on that however that was not the point. What I was getting at is codifying something will not prevent it from happening. I was using the assault weapon thing because there are quite a few posts on this sub about a generalized group of people wanting weapons ban but supporting abortion; in which I feel the other side uses the argument about pro-life equals conservative who seem to support the death penalty. Both are silly arguments.
Yeah, let's legalize murder and rape and kidnapping because the laws don't 100% prevent them. Nothing could go wrong!
Well seeing as those are illegal and abortion up to the second trimester is not I’m sure one could make an argument as to why. Not so much murder rape and kidnapping.
If you're going to argue for legal abortion on the grounds that laws against it won't completely prevent it, at least be consistent. Why not legalise all crimes?
I’m not arguing for legal abortion, I don’t have to the courts already did. My original intention was why a handful of posts on this sub are drawing comparisons between assault weapons ban and pro-choice. Also why bother remodeling when you can just rip it down
Gun crimes are already illegal, abortion is not
Agreed hence they are crimes, there is plenty of gun violence that is condoned or ignored and certain times in which abortion is illegal. No?
When is gun violence condoned except to prevent human lives from being ended, which is the opposite of what abortion does? I'm not really sure i understand any of this
Well besides warfare or excessive force, I don’t really understand any of it either there appears to be too many caveats.
Really? And how do you know this? The truth is that countries and states with more restrictive abortions laws have fewer abortions. In fact, they also have better maternal health rates so that would be another positive. Hey here's an idea, ban abortion and ban guns. Everyone's happy and less people die.
Agreed
Rape is illegal, and as a result it is more dangerous to commit rape. Is this a problem with rape, or a problem with the laws against rape?

How many people here are actually in favor or execution for women who have had abortions?
Secularists are always going to be biased against the death penalty because they don't believe in an afterlife; whereas, people of faith see the really big picture.
What is the "big picture"? An infinite afterlife based on our actions on Earth?
More than 0 EDIT: See.
I've seen people advocating punishment for it, but not executions. Did i miss something?
Yes. It's definitely not mainstream PL but some people advocate for it.
And they are the reason no one takes us seriously. One extremist and suddenly we're all villains.
I would suspect they're shills
Nope, there are some actual PL people who believe this is a reasonable punishment for women who get abortions. I think instead of pretending they don't exist we should be calling them out and making it clear they're a minority and that most pro-lifers strongly disagree with them. Some dishonest pro-choicers will continue to strawman us but honest one's wont. It's like if we, as pro-lifers, met and talked to pro-choicers who thought 9 month abortions were fine. Would we prefer the rest of pro-choicers to say "those people don't exist, they're shills" or would we rather they say "yes those pro-choicers exist and we strongly disagree with them"?
Just to be clear,  I have never pretended they don't exist, i just never heard of it before. They must be almost invisible. They also can't be compared to the people who are in favor of full-term abortion, because that's basically a given. I'm more surprised when i am talking to a pro-choicer who DOESNT think it's fine all the way up until the cord is cut. So these two groups are not analogous in their level of fringe.
They absolutely can be compared. It's exceedingly rare for a pro-choicer to support abortion up til birth. That's backed up by polling. I am willing to bet in fact that there are more pro-lifers support capital punishment for women who have abortions than than pro-choicers who support 9 month abortions.
Well that's just really odd cuz i must coincidentally only talk to people who happen to be in that tiny fringe, somehow only hang out in forums where all of them go (i guess they all really like makeup.) I'd have to look at the details of how they did that poll, where they found the participants and average age etc etc. And also your definition of exceedingly rare. Cuz at 29, my peers and people younger than me have no fear of openly proclaiming it. In fact they get Edginess brownie points.
The article argues against the strawman position that all women who have abortions should be sentenced to death without considering the details of the crime. No one says that, not even supporters of capital punishment for abortion. Coercion/duress and intent/scienter are considered when someone kills a born person. That said, duress does not justify murder because it is wrong to kill an innocent person, even to save your own life. It would result in a lighter sentence for murder. Regarding spending resources on abortionists instead - why not both? Aren't the hitman and the hirer both guilty? Many women who have abortions today do not intend to kill a child. Ignorant prochoicers think that an abortion is no different than menstruating. But what about those who are informed? Should someone who intends to murder her newborn child of her own free will be punished with murder? Why should this crime be ignored if done a day earlier?
Yes, there are people who would believe this, or rather, believe since it would be murder, and people who are murderers can be executed, we might well end up executing women who had abortions. I think it is safe to say that depending on the level of duress that a woman might experience in the course of "choosing" an abortion, the actual criminal offense might vary. I'm personally against the death penalty, and really, I think it is counterproductive to suggest executing women having abortions.  We don't even execute all murderers. Luckily, by nature of what the pro-life position tends to entail, I don't think this level of punishment is one that fits into most pro-life people's view of what would be done about illegal abortions.  But I do support speaking out against it, if that is necessary.
If a woman drowns her children in the bathtub, we as a society don't care about her reasons for doing so. She gets the penalty for the crime. It should be the same here -- the same penalty as for murder (whatever that is).
Actually we do care about the reasons. Imagine she had post partum or something. It makes a difference.

Defund Planned Parenthood!
We don't have to defend it, just the abortion services. I'm okay with the free pap smear and birth control though. The fewer unwanted pregnancies to begin with the better.
Children weren't the sacrifices in that culture. It would have been captured soldiers and citizens from the surrounding nations. Sometimes the current king and his family. I know memes are funny but I think it hurts our movement if we use false comparisons, it doesn't help change anyone's mind.
Yes, they were. There are more examples in the source if you care to read them. They are pretty gruesome. Although, today these children are sacrificed to the god of self, the god of money, the god of impulse, rather than to the god of rain and good crops.
“If you don’t want to sacrifice your children, you don’t have to. But don’t tell me what to do to get rain for my crops”
"If you don't like child sacrifices don't sacrifice one." -prochoice people
Why do you hate women so much you think they shouldn't be allowed to have crops? What will their children eat without crops?
What are you talking about? Pagans have often sacrificed from among their own children.
Yeah, but not from The culture being shown.
Planned parenthood does a lot of good outside of abortions js
Recently found out that my friend is very pro-choice. She said that the pictures that I referred to of aborted babies are used to guilt pro choice people. A bit ironic, since I feel leftists are usually trying to guilt pro lifers with the exceptional case of rape. She also told me that the babies are aborted before they've even divided into two cells. I've done some research, this isn't true, right? I tried telling her that most abortions happen at about thirteen weeks to which she replied that the fetus would have a very small brain and only four bones. The thing is, she's good with her words and doesn't falter while trying to persuade but I needed confirmation that every one of her arguments are false. I'm not a natural born debater, but I would like to be so I can get my point across to her. What should I say without being hostile? edit: I am aware that I made a mistake with the 13-week abortions.
Before they're 2 cells? Not possible. You don't even know you're pregnant until theres enough cells for a brain stem and functioning heart. That's A LOT OF CELLS. Also, are pictures of exised tumors or tonsils guilt-inducing? They're gross, but not disturbing. The very reaction of emotion she's referring to is because she recognizes it as a baby.
Thanks, those are good examples. Wish I had it at the time she was arguing with me.
Secular pro-life has some really good articles and tips to respond to common PC arguments. But no, abortions don't occur at that stage. Ever. :) you are correct.
Looks like a good resource, thanks!
Definitely follow up with the resources people have posted here, but here are some additional tips. Focus the discussion on the FACT that there is a second life. A second, separate life with unique DNA different from all other humans who have ever existed (save clones and identical twins). Scientifically, this life comes into being at the time of conception; that is when the new DNA, the first new cell is created which from there will continue to divide until a full adult maturity is acheived. Remember, life is inherently precious and valuable, and it must be protected. "Too few cells" or "clump of cells" -> false flag argument. The exact number of cells does not make something life or not life. Rather, life replicates itself and creates new cells. By dismissing unique life inside a womb as merely not enough cells, you actively say that human life which has not obtained a certain size is not life worth protecting. Further, most women do not even know nor can they reasonably ascertain that they are pregnant at this stage (hence false flag). This is purely an academic and debate point. However, full disclosure, for practical reasons, this is why I carve out a small exception for Plan B. It's a Schrodinger's cat exception: without further investigation, how can it be murder if there could or could not be a child? Without actual conception which is impossible to determine at that time, Plan B merely induces menstration (I think). "It is just a zygote or a fetus, not a human/adult" -> These are merely stages of human life. No one says we should be killing toddlers, but the distinction of the toddler stage of life is anaologous to zygote and fetus. You can make the same argument with baby, adolescent, etc. "Use pictures to guilt trip" -> In a debate, sometimes it's advantageous to simply say yes, you are correct. Here, don't fight this; yes, they should feel guilty. But they feel guilty because they inherently recognize these pictures as pictures of life. It hurts to be contronted with basic truths, and using the argument of a guilt trip is them trying to weasel out of the serious discussion. "There isn't even a brain / there aren't XYZ body parts" -> Point out you only see this argument in abortion discussions. No one argues that a person in a vegetative state (lacking brain function) is no longer a human deserving life. No one argues that an amputee (lacking a particular appendage) is no longer a human deserving life. So why does this argument hold water here? They are trying to make the case that a human who lacks certain physical functionality is not human, and that is just ridiculous. "It hasn't reached a certain stage of brain functionality" -> This has been systematically disproven on a couple fronts. First, pain does not wait for full human brain functionality. If that were true, how do other animals without human brains (or brains at all) feel pain? Can they? Of course. Second, you can't prove brain functionality. We don't have a test to accurately determine when "brain functionality" begins. To be honest, I don't even know what "brain functionality" means. To the best of my knowledge, there isn't this magic moment when the brain just turns on. As more and more connections in the brain are made, complexity increases, but it's more like a slow ramp up which technically starts at conception (I could be wrong here, so definitely fact check this). But again, the point of this argument is to say no brain, no baby. False. "It isn't a citizen" -> True. This is the best argument the pro-choice movement can put forth. As much as we can agree that an unborn baby is alive, if it does not have the designation as a citizen (a life recognized by the government), then our constitutional and legal protections against harm from third parties do not apply and will not protect it. Murder is generally defined as the unlawful killing of a person with malice aforethought. If it's not a person, then no law is broken. However, anyone who makes this argument must sacrifice their morals. The argument is essentially this: if there is no law being broken, it's ok. Respond: for argument's sake, let's assume we've made that law. Actions are not bad merely because they break laws. Sin is sin. The United States is not a theocracy; thus, we strive not to legislate our morals. What is morally right might not be the letter of the law. No other argument the pro-choice movement uses holds water if you can establish that there is a second life separate from the woman whose interests MUST be taken into account and MUST be zealously advocated. Common talking points used to justify abortion often include the following: -Lack of financial resources -Lack of proper family planning (the mother is too young) -Lack of time -Need to focus on a career -The individual is not a responsible parent -There is no room in the house -I can't feed another mouth -I'm not ready to be a parent -It's inconvenient right now -I just don't want this thing inside me for 9 months -I really don't like the father / the father has XYZ problems/issues RESPONSE: Not one of these arguments would be at all reasonable to justify murder if you were talking about two adults. And because "adult" is merely a stage of human life, you can substitute "unborn child" because that too is another stage of human life. Thus, none of these arguments would justify murder between an adult and an unborn child either. Pro-choice works by denying the existence of a second life until some unascertainable light switch happens or statutory laws kick in. It denies what even little children recognize: there is a baby inside of a woman. And often we actively want to deny this truth because we sympathize and empathize with the woman. Being pregnant is hard. Birthing a child is hard. Having a family is hard. And it's scary. The pro-life movement needs to do a better job showing how they truly care for these women in this earthshaking time of life. Most pro-choice people have no idea how plentiful and supportive the resources the pro-life movement funds are. But remember, regardless of everything else, the answer isn't to deny basic scientific, moral, religious, natural truths: there is a child within you. A light within you. A blessing.
Thank you for taking the time to write this, a lot of good arguments made here. I know my friend means well with the whole "women should be able to do whatever they want, it's their body" and the "it's not fair for the woman to sacrifice 9+ months for an unwanted baby," but I hope she and other pro-choice people realize what we are trying to say. It's not that I don't care about the woman--I was continuously hearing her say things about the woman's needs and suffering. We honestly do care and want to help both the mother and the baby.
Check out this Youtube channel for some helpful jumping off points! Also following Dank pro-life memes on FB/Twitter you’ll get exposure to some typical PC arguments and good discussion points to bring up.
Thanks, I'll definitely check it out.
It would be literally impossible to do that.
A sperm and an egg are already two cells. This dude might have misremembered something but that idea itself is completely idiotic.
They combine to form one cell, though.
Seems like she is good at making b.s. up to support her ideology. Tell her those picture should make her feel guilty because they are pictures of a baby that was killed unjustly and she supports that. So, ask her what's the problem with that? Also, the highest rate of abortions take place between 9-12 weeks. The baby is very formed, has a heart beat, and brain waves. Although this is all irrelevant since the concept of human rights ought to apply to all living human beings and not decided by a human being's stage of development. If our stage of development was a deciding factor in whether or not we have the right to life (the right to not be killed) then one could argue that newborns are not developed enough and infanticide should be illegal. Check these sites out for more help. See here, here and here. Happy debating.
Thank you. I forgot to mention, she also said that those pictures are very rare cases of abortion (that are used to guilt and so on). But there are pictures of the 9-12 week abortions you mentioned and I do think they are just as saddening. No idea what she means by "rare cases."
She probably means that they are pictures of late term abortions. Which happen a lot less than early term abortions. I'm not sure why being rare makes something o.k. Maybe, you should just go back to basic with her and ask her why she thinks abortion is o.k. Once you understand her reasoning then you can have a more productive discussion.
First off, she’s either making stuff up or she simply isn’t literate in this area. No shame in that, but it’s pretty easy to disprove categorically false assertions. The far greater challenge is showing her that her assertions, even if they were true, are not morally meaningful. Use the Socratic method: start by asking her to concisely explain why abortion is moral. Then keep asking her questions as you dive deeper into her beliefs. She will hopefully see that some of her assertions are not as meaningful as she might think they are. For instance, let’s say she says “abortion is moral because at the time of most abortions the fetus only has four bones.” Cool, we have somewhere to start. First, ask about the abortions that don’t occur during that window. Are they still moral? If so, why? They don’t meet the test that she herself laid out. Next, ask her if it would be ok to kill a fully-developed adult who only had four bones. Same as you and I, just only has four bones. Is he not a real person either? Or consider a sentient alien who only has four bones; would he also not be a “person”? At this point she’ll start to realize that her argument isn’t as useful as she thought it was. Next, ask her why “number of bones” is a meaningful moral distinction between persons and non-persons when other purely physical characteristics such as height, weight, age, race, or sex are generally not morally meaningful. In fact, we explicitly call people who make judgments of the rights of others based purely off physical characteristics “racists” or “sexists”, and we generally believe that those people are morally repugnant. What makes “bone count” any different than “whiteness” in determining an entity’s rights? At this point, she’ll likely shift the goalposts. This is good! It means she’s realizing that her original argument was terrible, and you haven’t even had to make an argument yet! All you need to do is ask pointed questions about aspects of her argument that don’t make sense. Rinse and repeat as necessary. Typically, pro-choice people don’t have arguments so much as they have “collections of random assertions without much moral meaning.” “Fetuses are small! Fetuses aren’t conscious! Fetuses are in a specific place! Fetuses only have two bones! Fetuses are made of cells (as if we aren’t all made of cells)!” You get the idea. Using the Socratic method to help the other person realize that there are holes in their argument is first step to changing his or her mind. Good luck!
An excellent point. It's a smart idea to attack with strong questions rather than responses. Never heard of the Socratic method but I will definitely keep it in mind next time.
Here's a useful website on the development of the baby week by week. https://www.babycenter.com/6_your-pregnancy-10-weeks_1099.bc
No, abortions don't happen before there are two cells.  But I will caution that you're incorrect- the majority of abortions (66%) take place before 8 weeks, and the number that take place before 13 weeks are 88.8% (Source: Guttmacher). Also, as another commenter noted, poverty as a reality for women seeking abortions, and as a cited reason for seeking them, is not exceptional at all; "Some 75% of abortion patients in 2014 were poor or low-income. 26% of patients had incomes of 100–199% of the federal poverty level, and 49% had incomes of less than 100% of the federal poverty level ($15,730 for a family of two)."
Yep, I recognize my error with the poverty case. Edited my post so it's more straightforward. I wonder why I remembered different stats about the week during which most women get abortions. Thought it was 9-12 weeks, but wup, here I go back to researching again.
You probably remembered up to 13 and at 13, that's all. People usually get them quickly, so three months is a bit slow.
The stage at which there are two cells is before a woman even knows she's pregnant; there are on the order of one hundred cells before the embryo even implants. As far as the "only four bones" comment... What?  Which bones does she think these are, exactly? The bones don't take turns growing!
The poverty cases are not exceptional.
Oh, okay. I rechecked the stats. Inability to support/care for a child involves poverty cases and financial problems so I agree!
Abortions DO NOT happen at 13 weeks...the majority of abortions are legal in the first trimester only,ergo at 12 weeks...well at least in my country,abortions are illegal after 8 weeks. Around 70% of abortions happen BEFORE 8 weeks...so the majority of abortions occur at 6-7 weeks...which can be even be dished medically by an abortion pill(abortion pills do work at pregnancies before 9 weeks).

http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/831489.stm
https://yourlogicalfallacyis.com/tu-quoque



Hi! I'm "retarded" (though my mother never ingested any type of abortafacient) and I'm pretty damn happy to be alive! What makes you say I'm a burden? Because I can't live on my own? Because I have special medical and psychological needs? I may be different, but I still have worth. Have you ever had a pet? I had a dog for 16 years. He was pretty dependant on my family for food, exercise, medical treatment, etc. He didn't earn money and he costed a lot. But we never tight of him as a burden. Quite the opposite! He was a loved and valued member of our family! He brought us immeasurable joy. Those things are priceless. I had my own unplanned pregnancy several years ago (yes, disabled have sex too). A lot of people told me I'd better have an abortion because there was no way someone like me could give birth to a healthy child. I told them I would love my child no matter what. Luckily a lot of wonderful people supported me (mostly pro-lifers like the awesome people in this sub!). My son was born physically healthy but he is on the autism spectrum. And I wouldn't have him any other way. The world would be a pretty boring place is everyone was the same!
Well said!
This is the happiest, best thing I've read in months. Thank you.
I really doubt you have an IQ under 70, stop calling yourself a retard.
They probably aren't actually retarded mentally, but it is quite possible that they were called that by others due to their disability (whatever that is), which is why I assume the quotes. If so, I'd say they get to use it as they "earned" it.
"With little risk of birth defects" How about reading the title before sounding like an idiot.
What makes you conclude that this procedure gives a higher risk of mental retardation? Moreover, are you making the claim that lives that are a burden are not worth living?

So you have nothing to back up your stance.
What stance, the stance of "I don't trust Christian science?"  Christian science is like homeopathic medicine.  If it wasn't bullshit, they wouldn't include the disclaimer.
What aspects of the study in question are problematic, exactly? Where does it say the researchers are Christian? Dismissing a study outright, regardless of validity, because the conclusions support a pro-life stance is completely illogical.
Interesting. Do you have a response to the second question?
One man's burden is another's man's advantage. You comment is ignorant and immature. There are many medical procedures that have possible negative side effects but we still choose to preform them because they have a high chance of saving a life. Get a clue.
Right, even if the reversal pill DID result in a "retarded" baby, does not wanting to deal with a "retarded" "burden" mean we shouldn't save people who get head injuries or brain damage?
It's kind of funny how leftists look down on conservatives for supposedly espousing the "pull yourself up by your bootstraps" philosophy, but suddenly use that same philosophy when it comes to a fetus that might be born disabled, poor, or somehow unwanted.
Babies can't vote so there's no need to coddle them or make excuses for them
Kind of funny how conservatives are generally poor and live in areas that are terrible.
Whereas the wonderful cities that most liberals live in are paragons of wealth and shining socialist cities on a hill. No one deserves to die because they are poor or a burden.
So do black Americans. What’s your point? Surely you’re not the kind of person who makes judgments about the intellectual capabilities of others based on their economic status or where they live. That sounds like the kind of thing a racist would say, and I’m sure you’re not a racist. So, in case I wasn’t clear, what conclusion are you drawing about conservatives and why wouldn’t you draw the same conclusion for any other group of poor people in bad areas? I’ll be eagerly awaiting your answer.
A few weeks ago I saw a post on r/TwoXChromosomes from a woman who said she had gotten pregnant with her boyfriend despite being on birth control. She was considering aborting the baby and said she felt really bad about it even though she knew it wasn't her fault for getting pregnant. As you would expect, many comments were supporting that decision and told her not to feel bad since it wasn't her fault. I commented saying that it was in fact her fault since she had decided to have sex and knew there was a risk of becoming pregnant, but even though she made a mistake she was loved and had other options than abortion. I received a lot of hateful comments and, after responding to a few of them, received a message from the moderator saying I had been banned for hateful comments to the OP. I tried to explain that I was doing the opposite since I wanted her to know there were other options. They eventually stopped responding all together.UPDATE: After asking them to lift my ban they have muted me for 72 hours.
Don't you know people HAVE to have sex? Gosh darn, there goes my crotch again! Its not my fault! (I say this as someone who got knocked up from a booty call with an ex i didn't even like. Lol. Yes, it was my bad decision. Fault.)
I was banned too, not for an explicitly pro-life comment (although I did post those), but for “repeatedly posting in another sub” from which known trouble makers come. Yep, I got kicked out of the sub that’s supposed to be welcoming to all women not for doing something wrong within the sub, but for associating with people in another sub that they don’t like. I mean, sod ‘em, it’s just Reddit. My life will go on just fine without that sub. But they really should change their description to make it clear that it is a pro-choice, politically liberal, third wave feminist sub. Saying it’s for all women and then removing alternate perspectives is why so many people in this country say they “don’t know anyone who thinks X” or that “all women have experienced Y.”
I had to unsub from TwoX ages ago because that sub is so hostile towards prolifers. Any whiff of prolife ideology is swiftly downvoted and so many of the posts end up being about abortion or other overly feminist ideas that make me uncomfortable (I support feminism when feminism means equality and respect for women, but there are some who take it much further than that and that is what makes me uncomfortable). I'm much more at home in /r/TheGirlSurvivalGuide which, while the users there still lean more prochoice, they at least have a wider variety of discussion topics that don't end up turning into political debates.
I might do the same. I just feel so sad for a lot of the women who post there I feel like I can't, in good conscience, say nothing.
I mean maybe commenting that it was her fault wasn't the best idea.
I agree. I'm definitely no therapist but I wanted to be truthful. I did my best to word it in the kindest way possible that she couldn't blame anyone but herself for getting pregnant. I got the feeling she just wanted people to make her feel better by saying it wasn't her fault and I felt she need to hear some truth. I just hope maybe hearing it in a loving way amplified the little voice in the back of her head that was telling her that abortion is wrong.
That isn't how that works though. And they are very explicit about that. When someone needs support, you support them, and that's clearly what she was looking for. That is not the time for truth. There is certainly a time for that, but not not then.
She didn't ask for support, she specifically asked for help and answers to her situation so that's what I gave her. It just wasn't the answers she or any of the mods wanted
Sure, but you need to understand that in the pro-choice position consent to sex isn't consent to pregnancy. I think you need to take in the emotional needs of the OP in this post and understand that if you are going to present the unorthodox position, you have to do it gracefully. On one hand, you want her to keep the pregnancy, (which to her would seem as a huge sacrifice) and on the other hand, you want to in a way call her out for her behavior. I appreciate your intention, but you really seem to be reinforcing the pro-life stereotype which seems to be people just concerned with Sex.
I tried not to phrase it too bluntly but I feel like people are going to hate being called out no matter how gracefully you put it. I'm concerned with morality, whether it be sexual or sanctity of human life, however I didn't call her out for being sexually immoral. I called her out for saying it wasn't her fault for getting pregnant. I think the biggest issue is just that people don't like hearing opinions they dissagree with. The left just likes to call it hate speech when it's comments they dissagree with so it makes the right look bad when they express their opinions
There is a time and place for debate and discussion. Right now someone is dealing with a crisis and they don't need a lecture on sexual morality. I am guessing you are Catholic or Christian and that's fine, but I really don't see why you need to express your personal views when you are trying to reach out and help someone. Once again many people believe that consent to sex is not consenting to pregnancy, therefore you are putting forward a premise that they are bound to reject in a situation where it isn't really relevant. I am going to assume you are a Christian again, and if you are I would encourage you to read Matthew 7:1-5 in regards to what Jesus says about judging people. That's a whole lot of assertions that I really don't think you back up. As a liberal, I am fine with people expressing whatever views they want in the proper context as long as they aren't trying to impose their views on others.
I literally said that I didn't mention her sexual morality. I commented on the fact that pregnancy is a possible consequence of having sex. That has nothing to do with sexual morality. The comment you made about consent is ridiculous, I don't care how many people believe that. If I jump off a bridge I may or may not die. Whether I consent to death or not is irrelavent. If you consent to having sex but you don't want to get pregnant then you're taking a risk. That doesn't give you the right to take a life if you do get pregnant. You are correct, I am a Christian. I'm not really sure how Matthew 7 applies here. Take a look at Proverbs 27:5 or Titus 2:15. Your last point is about a comment that is definitely just my opinion. Overall I'm just surprised that I was banned for "hate speech" when I was just expressing opinions. I wasn't saying it in a hateful way. I wanted what was best for her and I told her that was why I was making my comments.
Yep, here's my banned message. TwoX, is a toxic political platform, not a place for women's voices to be heard.
This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.


Informing women that it's possible (albeit research is in its early stages) to reverse an RU-486 abortion seems reasonable enough that both sides should agree that people should know about. But of course pro-choicers still find a way to have a problem with it.
So  if the argument is that pro-life pregnancy centers need to promote abortion because it needs to inform a woman of all her available options, wouldn't that mean that abortion clinics should also have to promote abortion reversal in the name of complete education and transparency? Or are we really just letting them decide what they tell women to ensure that their agenda is achieved? Why does one have to go against their beliefs to ensure women are fully informed but the other should be able to withhold valuable information leaving a woman not entirely informed?
We should make PPs in California advertise it.
Obviously a perspective I find disagreeable but some useful info on the reversal pill.
Honestly, I agree that it shouldn't be promoted for one reason. If people get this idea in the back of their head that abortion pills can easily be reversed halfway through, then isn't there always the chance that abortion will be taken even more lightly than it already is?
Are decision making, rational thought, and critical thinking this absent in modern society? Like first, you decide to have sex with someone which is already consenting and risking the possibility that you could get pregnant. So you made one bad choice. Then you want to abort the kid because of your lack of responsibility. That's two bad choices already. Then you decide you don't want to abort the kid anymore, so you get it reversed? Is this not the definition of acting upon impulse? Why don't people use their brains anymore? The only reason why this should be promoted is the reason why abortion itself exists, because of a lack of responsibility and decision making but at least this saves lives
Some women have been tricked or forced into taking abortion pills by their boyfriends/husbands.
Lots of women get raped or stealthed. It's not always entirely their fault that they got pregnant. Whether they should have made the decision to have unprotected sex, etc. is a valuable suite of questions but don't make the assumption that since a woman wants an abortion, it's purely a product of sour grapes or being irresponsible.
Yeah, I understand that but rape makes up less than 1% of abortions and only 3% are where the mother is at life risk (Canadian statistics, not sure how it is in USA) and obviously those are different scenarios. But this is directed at the other 96% of abortions that were chosen as a use of contraception

Step in the right direction. Definitely shouldn't be allowed after implantation on the endometrial lining but I gotta applaud them for doing something.

Scott Walker is great. Reddit hates the shit out of him, and when the unions in Wisconsin tried to get him recalled (especially the teacher's union, holy shit the smear campaign there was real) he won by a larger margin than his original election.
Have you considered giving to his campaign? (you don't need to be in state to do so)

Opposition to a particular union doesn't mean opposition to the people it represents.

In a legal sense, yes. But they're not analogous, nor do they speak for all teachers. They're a political lobbying organization.

I'm not sure where you think I lack understanding. They represent teachers in legal and to a certain extent political matters. True, but not all teachers agree with every action they take. Furthermore, it is disingenuous to equate opposing the union with being opposed to teachers.
No, you're just opposed to someone acting in their interest.
That presupposes that the union is always acting in their best interests. I don't believe that's the case. Furthermore, it's important to remember that in the United States, unions, and especially public sector unions, are deeply in the pockets of liberal democrats, who promote all sorts of things that prolife people are opposed to.
That's the point of a union. If it isn't happening then the union is corrupt. To believe unions are inherently not working in the interests of the people they represent is bullshit anti union propaganda. Fox news tell you that? Which way is it? Are unions political groups or are unions bribed by political groups? Are they simultaneously lobbying political parties and also being paid off by them? Maybe if conservatives weren't so rabidly anti union...

Could you imagine being against a police union? Yes? Oh, how quaint, I guess unions representing people aren't always great and what they seem to be, or do you hate policemen? Fuck wherever you're from then I guess.
Right because there's no reason why people could be upset at how police behave.
Waaaaaaait a minute..it's almost as if dumbass hyperbole is dumbass.
Are people staging mass protests over teacher student relationships?
So there aren't any reasons why people could be upset at how teachers behave because no one is protesting against them...except the recall, backed en masse by teacher's unions, was defeated with a margin greater than his original election victory. So yes, I suppose there was a mass protest, called an election, in which people did protest a teacher's union. Or were you trying to say that no one could be upset at how teacher's behave when put against how police officer's behave because there were no protests? Or that teachers do no wrong because there were no protests? Or that your original argument of how could anyone be against a union for teachers was flawed because you can be against police unions - yet you can't, because they do wrong - yet you can still be for teacher's unions, because even though they also do highly publicized crimes that doesn't matter for reasons. Really your logic just sucks here, you hate Scott Walker because he's conservative and you're bigoted against anyone that leans conservative, we get it.
No I'm saying its completely ridiculous to compare police to teachers. You're comparing teachers having relationships with their students, (which is incredibly unethical and isn't treated like the abuse of power it is) with police getting away with murdering people, systemic racism or police getting away with theft in the form of Civil forfeiture or any of the other issues people have with police. No I dislike him because of all the terribly policies he endorses and represents. For example: Passing Voter ID laws designed to prevent certain types of people voting who are more likely voting against him. Has an appalling record on the environment and climate change Wanting to cut welfare and require drug tests for people on it. Rabidly homophobic. That's without mentioning his lies about the economy, taxes, jobs or his stance on unions. I don't like him because he's a cunt.
It's...ridiculous to compare unions that support their different groups regardless of what those groups do or represent? Interesting. What about the abuse of faculty to misrepresent data or introduce their own partisan politics into a classroom of children, is that not an abuse of power - the legitimate attempt to brainwash children into a system of belief from a young age from the guise of a high school social studies teacher - worth arguing against? Voter ID laws...like the same ID laws I have to use to get a job, or..basically do anything, anywhere? Even to use my credit card? The same ID that the government uses to identify me, my social security card? It's ridiculous to ask for identification at a voting booth to ensure citizenship? Designed to prevent 'certain types of people voting' - what types of people are these that don't have a social security card? Lots of people are in favor for cutting welfare, especially since unemployment is so low. What reforms did you mean, exactly? Requiring people on welfare to get work training to receive benefits for more than three months? What's wrong with that again? Or upping the work hours from 20 to 30? Less than a full time job? What's wrong with that one too? Children would still be able to receive food stamps here. Holy shit get over it dude, nobody's afraid of gay people. The entire point of government getting into the marriage game was to promote people having kids, gay couples can't do that. Fuck off with this bullshit where someone disagrees with something and you just scream hateful bullshit. Yeah, ok, good ones here. He lies about stuff, wow, great stuff, really riveting. You're a bigot so it all works out in the end. You hate him because he's conservative and you're a hateful bigot against anyone with conservative values.
Glad to see he doesn’t think the right to murder babies is a “work benefit”
If what happens in people's bedrooms isn't my concern then don't make me pay for it. Of all the asinine things democrats want to try to introduce as 'a right!!111', 'birth control rights' in the form of taxpayer funded entitlements like abortion and birth control are by far the most gregarious. It becomes my business when I have to start paying for it.
Scott Walker is under SERIOUS threat in 2018. If you're in Wisconsin then you NEED to join his campaign and help make sure that he isn't replaced by a pro abortion lunatic: Volunteer - https://www.scottwalker.com/volunteer/ Donate - https://donate.scottwalker.com/
Good
Considering his opponents will all support late term abortions and will be Planned Parenthood's Puppets, no that isn't good.
Why are late term abortions relevant? Are they worse than earlier ones? They're also incredibly uncommon.
It's far more obvious to people that late term abortions are murder than earlier ones. Supporting late term abortion (like the overwhelming majority of Democrat politicians) as well just shows how radical you are on the issue.
I wouldn't call 10,000 a year incredibly uncommon. That's far more common than school shootings.
Source?
Stats from Guttmacher say that there are about 900,000 abortions performed in the US per year, and of those, 1.3% are done at 21 weeks or later. 1.3% of 900,000 is 11,700.
1% is incredibly uncommon.
What percentage of schools have ever experienced a school shooting? Way less than 1%. That doesn't mean school shootings are so incredibly uncommon that we can ignore them.
They are quite common compared to any comparable nation.

I’m pro-choice and this just makes the world better that even if parents want to, they can still change their minds
Terminology is bad here, "Abortion Enthusiasts"? Seriously, no one is going around highly encouraging people to have an abortion. They want it as an last choice. I am anti-abortion, doesn't mean I have to constantly vilify those I am against, I can have a logical argument with them and discourage them from that choice.
Aaahhh, that's not true. Nobody encourages abortion? Have you ever been unexpectedly pregnant, and not married? All your girlfriends be like "you're not seriously gonna keep it are you?? Here I'll help you get an abortion, I'll drive you there, you can stay over at my house afterwards." "What? You ARE serious? Wow, just wow. how will you ever date again? You can't afford this." "Jennifer is right, Tiffini. Don't come crying to us when your life is in shambles." Also, next time you're with a pro-choice woman, ask her what she'd do if her 16 year old got pregnant and report back.

I still wish they would have just removed funding from the federal bill altogether.
Sadly we need 60 votes (so Democrats need to support).
I thought it was simple majority for a budget?
Nope. We need 60 to pass things like that.
It is 60 for most things, but I thought budget reconciliation was 50 without filibuster.
Note: Biased pro-choice domain. However, this is still great news! Hopefully more states follow suite.
I'm so happy for my state rn :).
For example Harlequin type ichtyosis... I don't know. I'm pro-life, but I just don't know if I'd want my child to deal with pain for all of its life. I'm not talking about things like Down syndrome, I'm talking about really horrible conditions that make the victim suffer on a daily basis. What would you do?
What is your opinion on killing born people with diseases that make them suffer?
Well, some people prefer to end their suffering and just die. There's euthanasia for example. Now please don't get me wrong, I'm not saying that I believe that babies with such conditions should be aborted. I'm just so confused, because it kills me to know that they're suffering, but it also kills me the thought of not giving them a chance, that's why I ask for more opinions. Please don't get too defensive too quickly. Also many babies like this are born with families that can't afford the proper care, and if they give the babies up for adoption, will they be able to provide the care that they need? If they don't get adopted immediately, they will end in the system. Like I said, I feel genuinely confused about this. I feel like it would be a very rough decision to make. Is the person really living if they're suffering or are they just surviving?
Well, like you said, there's the issue of giving them a chance. If an adult chooses suicide, that's one thing, but once you start making that decision for someone else who doesn't get a say in the matter, things get super iffy. How much suffering is required before we decide someone's life isn't worth living?
Thank you so much for your insight. I really appreciate it :)
Most pro-life people are also opposed to euthanasia, so this would be a non-starter. I personally am not opposed to euthanasia, so I would be ok with it in jurisdictions where euthanasia was legal, under the same set of strict oversight and regulations that would apply to a child who had been born alive with the same conditions.
I'm not fond of euthanasia, but I can at least suggest that someone could, theoretically, make that decision completely of their own accord. There are institutional dangers of accepting euthanasia too broadly, however.  People can be convinced to do things that they might not otherwise do without that sort of societal influence.  And that sort of culture could be used by those who wish to remove obstacles rather than simply end suffering. I don't think we should throw people in jail/institutions for trying to off themselves, but I don't think we should be spending money on promoting or supporting the practice.
Of course abortions at those circumstances are morally permissible...even at down's syndrome. People who have abortions at those states,do have a reason...the majority of countries(even those with highly restrictive abortion laws)allow abortions at instances when the fetus is severely impaired,or has severe fatal deformities. If the baby is a result of incest,or has down's syndrome,has hiv(is serropositive due to the mother),edwards syndrome,patau syndrome etc,its life would be greatly and severely impaired,he will never experience life at the same level as a healthy individual...also what happens when you die?who's going to take care of the child? And sending the child away to an orphanage,or an institution is NOT the solution...jumping from foster care to foster care,is not a life,its hardship.

Not possible unless Kennedy or one of the Liberals retires/dies first, and the window to replace them is closing fast.  Democrats will likely retake the Senate in November, and once they are seated there is no way they will confirm a reliably pro-life Trump nominee to SCOTUS.
Why do you say this? The 2018 map isn't looking great for them.
They have to defend a lot of seats, but the national sentiment is on their side, and the GOP's control of the Senate is razor thin.
There are numerous opportunities in Nevada, Arizona, Tennessee (they have a near perfect candidate) and Texas to turn seats blue (in order of likelihood). Mississippi could also go blue if Chris McDaniel is the nominee.
I agree that we need at least one more justice to even have a reasonable hope of a repeal. I am not certain that the Dems will get that great a shift in November, even in spite of Trump, especially in the Senate. I do see the House being much more volatile and likely to flip. Granted, it's hard to know what will occur between now and November.  Trump is a dumpster fire, but its hard to see people changing their minds about him.  It's going to need to come down to whether otherwise previously apathetic voters manage to come out.
Democrats only need to take one GOP seat (and hold the ones they have) to win control of the Senate.  Most of the special elections since Trump was elected have them winning even in deep red states, and its largely by turning out the normally apathetic electorate you mentioned.
What are your thoughts on the idea that repeal of Roe will just lead blue states to increase their protection of abortion, or possibly even spur a legislative push for it to be explicitly made legal. I know that during Roe a lot of pro choice people didn't necessarily want the judicial solution as getting that killed the momentum for a legislative one.
I'm sure blue states like California will attempt to fully legalize it, if possible.  A lot will depend on if the Court actually recognizes the Right to Life.  At that point, every law that a blue state would enact, except for saving a mother's life, could be struck down in courts. In the event that Roe is completely overturned, they'd probably need a constitutional amendment, as in Ireland, to get over that hump. If Roe is only provisionally overturned, leaving some room for the states to wiggle around, then yeah, blue states will totally try to enact legal abortion on their own. The battle isn't over with the overturn of Roe.  Roe v. Wade was merely a big strategic victory for the pro-choicers, but it wasn't going to be the end of it even if the pro-life side had won.  There will be no end of abortion until people realize that it's unjustifiable homicide.
But even if Roe is completely overturned that just means that states can prohibit abortion, something like a giving fetuses personhood wouldn't be a result of that. And liberal states would certainly add more protection for abortion, also it will be interesting to see what the conservatives states do when they know their laws won't get struck down by the courts.
Well, yes, a simple overturn would do as you suggest. However, if the court ups the ante and affirms the right to life in the overturn, that could definitely stymie any state action.  While I don't actually think that will happen, one ground for an overturn of Roe would be the affirmation that a right to life exists and that therefore the findings of Roe were made on the basis of a set of rights that are subordinate. It completely depends on how they write the decision.  They could simply find a technicality, but if they want to make the overturn really stick, the Court may well try and set up certain principles that shift the basis for making future decisions.
I don't see how to could possibly make an argument that the Constitution gives fetuses a right to life. There is absolutely no precedent for it and plenty of precedent against it. If it got overturned, deep red states would have more restrictions and blue states would have a lot more protections for it. It would energize the pro-choice side enough to probably make not worth the while of the pro-life side
I don't think anyone is saying that the constitution has given you a stated right to life, per se.  Just like no one gives you a right to privacy either. These would be implied rights, or more to the point, rights that the Constitution might need to take as axiomatic in order to back its other rights. For instance, while there is no stated right to life, no one is planning on overturning murder statutes any time soon.  And presumably restrictions on free speech such as the crowded theater exception exist because we recognize a higher principle aside than the concretely stated right to free speech. I mean what would the right to free speech mean if someone could just gun you down for any reason they wanted to?  It might even be too weak to suggest that Life is a Right.  Protecting life may well be an absolute necessity for any sort of civilization to exist. So yes, I think a justice could find a right to life exists for humans even if it is not stated in the Constitution, and it is not even a leap of logic to consider a fetus a human, because it definitely is human. The larger problem with a big overturn is that our justices and legal system are not usually inclined to overturn precedents.  They'd rather edge around them, and that is problematic for Roe.  But there have definitely been times when they've put themselves out there and did some effective legislating, so it is not impossible.

Aaaaaaaaaaaaand some on this sub still don't believe me when I say that Republicans wouldn't outlaw abortion even if they had a large enough majority (which technically there are ways to do it with their current majority)...
The GOP are Democrats who want to get re-elected in regions that have conservative voters. I heard that a good portion of the liberal pundits got started in AM radio which is very conservative because it's one of the few medium where one can have a conservative voice. Immigration and democrat refugees from states that they've ruined through voting will turn the entire nation blue. If the Latinos voted republican there wouldn't be talks about breaking up CA to give the conservatives a voice in government. Not one GOP politician put something pro-gun in the omnibus which every politician's dog had a rider placed in it.Once the demographics have transitioned enough there will be republicans openly pushing for AWBs without a mass shooting.
How? There is no way to outlaw abortion with 51 Senate votes. And that's including the 2 """"Republicans"""" who are explicitly pro abortion (Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowski). If we'd won the Senate back in 2012 then we would see far more progress today.
/u/Drumpistani you ask this every time I say this.  You have the memory of a liberal in the news media I swear!  51 is a majority.  Vote to change the rules of the Senate.  Its simple.  How many times will you ask me this... Also, you act like the pro-life movement is a recent thing.  In the past, Republicans have had larger majorities plus there were pro-life Dems too.  They already could have and they didn't.  So please stop saying that its due to a current 51 seat majority because you are just being intellectually and historically dishonest
The constitution (as currently interpreted) upholds a right to abortion. Barring a car crash that kills all the liberal Judges on the SCOTUS or a constitutional amendment being passed through the states (which seems highly unlikely) we have no ability to make abortion illegal.
Wait, you said that its because of a 51 seat majority.  I'm really tired of doing this with you- I say something, you respond, I prove you wrong, then you bring up something unrelated.  Those tactics might work in the lunchroom at school but in the real world people see right through it. How naive are you?  WHERE HAVE YOU BEEN THE PAST COUPLE WEEKS?  We have a 2nd Amendment (which doesn't just imply but outright states the right to bear arms) and they are still trying to pass restrictive gun laws with the goal of banning guns!  And your take is "O well, they interpreted the constitution so abortion is legal.  Nothing can be done..."?  Looking at what you post about how we need to support certain candidates and then your constant half ass excuses/ question dodging for why we can't seem to get this abortion issue figured out after 40 years, its clear you probably have a job which involves doing work for Republicans.  Just like your debate skills, you need to step up your game because its clear what you are doing here...
What is your plan to make abortion illegal with what we have now? Go on, tell me. If there is actually a way to make abortion illegal or at least nullify Roe V Wade with 49 Pro Lifers in the Senate then pro life groups across the country would love to hear what you've come up with that no one else (even people who are probably far more educated) has been able to think of. Also you'd be best sending your suggestions here - https://www.nrlc.org/site/about/contact/
We've been over this.  Now I know you are just arguing for the sake of arguing. Stop being an apologist for Republicans that make massive amounts of $$ off of the movement by saying its a priority then just go back and say "Oh well we tried, excuse me while I go and pass a bill giving massive amounts of $$ to Planned Parenthood!" and then who turn around and fundraise of off defunding planned parenthood. Please stop acting like there is nothing politicians can do and making excuses.  If you raise a crap ton of money off of the pro-life movement and defunding planned parenthood because you say its so important to you, THEN DO IT!  Who cares if the SCOTUS might rule against it.  At least you stood up for and DOING WHAT YOU SAID YOU WOULD DO.  Restrict it like the states did so abortion providers can't function (it boggles my mind you conveniently forget this sort of stuff).  Are you that naive that you think that just because something might be overturned then there is no use in trying?  If that was true no law supported by Dems would have ever been passed!
There is literally no point in passing a law to abolish abortion if it won't even be in place for a day and will have no impact(like Mississippi's 15 week ban). And all these restrictions from the states come from the REPUBLICAN party. Democrats in all 50 states have opposed any regulation at all.

The entire population of the world could fit into Rhode Island. We don't have a resource problem, we have a distribution problem. I would take your concern seriously if you also advocated for killing born people to solve this problem. If not, you are either being horribly inconsistent, disingenuous in your concerns, or just working backward from the premise that abortion is fine and how you can justify that. You can let me know which one.
For starters check out this from WaPo:  Five myths about the world’s population
That there is not a significant risk of this happening. Every time people have predicted it in the past they have been proven wrong, and global fertility trends are going down dramatically.
Because of abortion in large part.
Is that even true? My understanding was that abortion is relatively steady while actual fertility control is being implemented more often.
In quite a few counties in the world, abortion is used as birth control (especially the larger countries like China, Russia and India). So far at the current rate, 10.6 million abortions have happened in the first 4 months of 2018.
That doesn't speak to the trend ("global fertility trends are going down dramatically").
If abortion rates went down dramatically overnight then there would be a huge increase in fertility rates (because less abortions means more babies).
No one said abortion rates went down. They said fertility went down -- which could be due to fertility control increase, not abortion increase. As I said, abortion could be steady while fertility control is implemented more often. And that's what I understand to be the global trend.
I said that if abortion rates went down, then fertility rates would shoot up.
I heard you. I fail to see the relevance of your comment. Who or what are you responding to?
the fertility rates only continue to decrease because of the millions of women who abort their babies every year. If they stopped then the rates would shoot back up again.

Overpopulation - The Human Explosion Explained. Highly recommend.
Our current resource problem is a lack of proper economic incentives to properly distribute the resources we have. What does this have to do with abortion, though?
I don't see the population or amount of resources being a problem. The problem I see is access to resources.
It's a non-starter.  As others have said, we don't have a population problem, we have a logistics problem.

My cat has a parasitic relationship with me. He needs me to feed him, fill his water dish, clean his litter box, etc. I shouldn't be forced to keep a cat if I don't want to. Therefore, I have the right to gruesomely dismember my cat and burn it with chemicals. My house, my choice. This is essentially the logic of the pro-choice side. A human fetus is at least as valuable as a cat, is it not?
Actually yes because why would a human be more worth than a cat. We may be a bit smarter but that’s it. In the end we are only a other species trying to survive on this planet.
Just keep asking questions. So you're ok with abortion at 9 months gestation? Dismemberment abortion?
Yeah, that's a pretty extreme view that most people are likely to back down from. And if the quality of being in the womb doesn't permit you to kill the child at nine months of development, why should it make any difference before then?
It’s ridiculous that they call it a parasite, you chose it to be there! Unless it’s rape in which it still didn’t ask to be there
It's also the mother's own child developing in the only place it could be expected to develop, which seems to make it meaningfully different from a parasite.
I would add that the definition of parasitism (from Wikipedia) is: "In biology, parasitism is a relationship between species, where one organism, the parasite, lives on or in another organism, the host, causing it some harm, and is adapted structurally to this way of life." So based only on the literal definition,ones offspring is not a parasite as it is the same species. Unborn offspring in mammals are also using the reproductive system which is specifically meant to support and sustain unborn life, unlike with a parasite, who takes up residence in a place that it is not meant to be.
Being the weirdo in a conversation who pretends the other person means some kind of strictly literal scientific definition of a specific term is never an effective way of responding to anything. If the topic were instead dating relationships and someone posted this article, are you gonna sit there and go “ackchuallyyyy, your boyfriend and you can’t be in a parasitic relationship because my Wikipedia tells me you have to be dating another species to use that word!” That honestly adds nothing to the conversation.  The point they’re making about the relationship dynamic can be totally misguided and wrong, but that isn’t how you’re going to show it.
I have never heard the argument that a fetus's relationship to the mother is figuratively parasitic in the way that a romantic relationship can be parasitic because that makes even less sense than calling the fetus a literal parasite. Is every child's relationship to his or her parents parasitic? We only use "parasitic" to describe dysfunctional relationships. A child developing in his or her mother's womb is not dysfunctional because that is exactly what a child is supposed to do.
Calling a relationship parasitic has a severely negative connotation based on the science of actual parasitism. Pro-lifers aren't going to accept calling normal reproduction "parasitic" for that reason, and also we won't allow a term like that to be thrown around and and thereby give their argument a science-y vibe. Yes, they might mean to use the word in a more colloquial manner, but use of that word has enough scientific overtones that a good scientific definition is never out of place.
How do you show it, then?
I see your point related to the article, but in OP's post they seem to be making an argument based on biology and science (or attempting to)
Well, then born children are all parasites too because they are dependent on others for survival.
Totally agreed. This, I think, is the better argument. The womb is where a fetus is supposed to be. It is where literally every human who has ever existed started. Literally, without fail, 100% of humans develop in the womb. Comparing a fetus to a parasite is disingenuous because it simply isn’t one. Pregnancy is a whole different category of relationship, one which is responsible for literally every human who has ever existed. To try and boil that down to “parasitism” (as if the fetus is a tapeworm) is both scientifically inaccurate and philosophically/morally prima facie nonsense.
It’s a parasitic relationship until birth. By that logic it is ok for the mother to choose to kill the baby because it’s a “parasite” it’s not “her parasite” it’s “a parasite.” Therefore if it is ok to kill “a parasite” why is it morally wrong for an 3rd party/outside individual to kill your unborn child? Meaning they also believe that killing a child they want doesn’t matter either.
I always bring up how Scott Peterson was convicted and serving life in prison for a double homicide. His wife Lacie Peterson and her unborn child.
We build our laws in a way that things wich people generally care about are protected and if someone wants a child thy care about it. So if a third party kills it it’s wrong. But when not even the mother cares about it there is no reason to not kill it.
First of all, abortion is not legal at any and all points of gestation, but legality does not equal morality. I would ask if it should be permitted to have an abortion (for arguments' sake assume it is a perfectly healthy and normal pregnancy--you can get into the (im)morality of aborting children with disability later) 1 day before the mothers' due date. Provided they're not a troll or satan, they will probably have to concede that this would be unreasonable. Ok, what about 2 days before the due date? What about 1 week before the due date? 1 month before? All these timepoints are times when the unborn baby is viable. Where do you draw the line? (Most will then say "viability"). So question them to ask why viability makes them a person but non-viability does not? What specific moral qualities about being able breath/survive on your own outside the womb makes someone more deserving of human rights than someone who is not able to breath/survive on their own outside the womb? Finally, why is any line you draw (viability or sometime before) not completely arbitrary? and so forth...
I feel like the answer there is that all lines are arbitrary, whether it be birth or conception. Personhood is a social construct, it's like deciding when adulthood starts. There isn't a wrong answer, it's just something that people generally agree on.
They are biologically illiterate. Tell them to cite a source.
Well I don’t think there is any way you will change their mind so you shouldn’t waste your time. There are several good arguments to rebut that stance though. First, make them clarify when the baby becomes a life. When it is a life, it is murder to abort and kill the life. If they claim it isn’t a life until birth, there really isn’t middle ground since some baby’s are viable as early as 20 weeks and that is getting even earlier with technology. Basically any stance you take that attributes life to the baby will win because murder is already illegal.
I don't know that people will never change their mind.  I think people do change their mind. That said, I wouldn't expect them to change their mind in the same conversation that you're presenting your points.  There is a certain process that people have to go through before really accepting their views were not quite right.  And it will still be difficult. I had the same issue with the death penalty.  I thought it was perfectly fine to execute people who had chosen to do wrong.  Only later did I come to realize that it isn't all it is cracked up to be as a penalty.  I wouldn't say you couldn't kill someone in self-defense, but once in the power of the State, I don't see a killing as any form of necessary defense. And even now, I admit that even though my view is that they should not be executed, it can be hard to have more than limited sympathy for those who are executed and who clearly are guilty or heinous crimes. So I would expect a former pro-choicer to have to first come to an understanding that while they can have a lot of sympathy for a mother in certain scenarios, abortion can't be the solution to those problems, even if it feels like it would be easier to support that.
I wasn't talking about people in general, Just that specific commenter. Calling a baby a parasite until birth is a pretty firm stance. It is unlikely to change that type of stance.
I think you'd be surprised.  People can say some pretty strong things when they think they are totally right.  That doesn't prevent them from re-thinking things later. People are better at changing their minds when they aren't on the defensive, in fortification mode.  And if there is a social implication to a sudden shift, they innately know that switching sides in public will cause them other issues. You can change minds that appear to be set, but it is necessary to understand that this may need to be done via erosion of their current, flawed position, rather than via a dramatic win.
Right I'm not arguing that. I am simply saying that it is often not worth your time to argue with somebody who has a defined polarizing position. It is more productive when the person is open to change or more neutral on the premise.
I see your point, but I feel that sometimes people put up a stronger resistance in public than they really have. Also, sometimes it is important to simply be there to address those arguments in public.  Even if your opponent won't accept your reasoning, someone else may come across the conversation and realize that he or she isn't making good points against you. That is also why it is important to not become frustrated that you aren't making progress.  It is rare for it to be only the two of you reading a thread (using Reddit as an example).
I agree, that's why r/Changemyview is one of my favorite subs
I had a similar conversation on r/politics. But it ended without any severe namecalling. I love how the guy equated LIFE with hair cells. https://www.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/88qt9n/far_cry_5_includes_mission_to_steal_trump_pee_tape/dwmyqma/ Fix my karma r/prolife
By their "logic" it's a parasitic relationship well beyond birth. But you probably can't reason with them, their ideology has most likely hardened to a religious fervor and they should be ignored. Focus your effort on people who are easier to persuade.
You can show how this denial of humanity leads to human-created tragedies such as the holocaust, slavery, Jim Crow, eugenics, etc... in fact, Margaret Sanger and her work was an influence for Hitler through her work in eugenics. It's no coincidence that Margaret Sanger is the founder of Planned Parenthood. This drops a pill. It will take time to change minds.
"The ministers work is also important and he should be trained, perhaps by the Federation as to our ideals and the goal that we hope to reach. We do not want word to go out that we want to exterminate the Negro population and the minister is the man who can straighten out that idea if it ever occurs to any of their more rebellious members."
Just love them. Nobody ever softened their heart because someone argued with them.
This couldn’t be more incorrect. Nobody... ever... No. Logic and reason are the fundamental building blocks of moral values. “Nobody ever changed their mind about killing millions of Jews during WW2 but guess what people sure rose up and put a stop to that too.
Ben Shapiro, Steven Crowder and the pro-life subreddit changed my mind. With insults, hard truths and scientific fact. Maybe truth and fact and argument wouldn't change your mind but it did mine.
Some people do. It depends on how the argument goes
There is no arguing,
With calm spirit and a bit of Juvenalian and  Socratic ironies.
The nature of a parasitic relationship is that one party (the parasite) causes harm to the other party (the host). Inconvenience and even pain are not the same thing as harm. If anything, pregnancy is a commensalistic relationship. Barring in the case of the pregnancy going wrong (which doesn't happen all or even most of the time), the mother isn't being harmed by her child. To call an unborn baby a parasite is a blatant lie.
this phone's battery is at 26% and needs charging! I am a bot. I use OCR to detect battery levels. Sometimes I make mistakes. sorry. ^^info
Bad bot
Bad bot.
good bot
Thank you, DroppingFecalMatter, for voting on phonebatterylevelbot. This bot wants to find the best and worst bots on Reddit. You can view results here. Even if I don't reply to your comment, I'm still listening for votes. Check the webpage to see if your vote registered!
good bot


Or whatever? So not only are you judging a bunch of internet strangers you are also extended the insult to anything at all? Lol.
YOU are a fucking half wit, friend

That is so sad. Honestly the situation in west is not so different. Women here  are taught that killing their baby to save themselves the hassle of being harassed and fired is liberation.
This is frustrating... and they have such a low birth rate already.
Thats awful
Japan is a very Pro Choice country. Like 80% of Japanese women approve of abortion.
This is really sad
It's even worse in most of the former Socialist countries.
Understandable, given both the state enforced atheism as well as the enforced idea that the state knows best for you, over your own individuality.
Honestly I'm from a formerly socialist country, and it was a socialist state during the time my mother had my three older brothers. After her third child she went to the doctor for birth control and was told no until she's at least 30 or had at least 5 kids. Abortion was off the table. It's also a deeply religious country to this day that opposes gay marriage, frowns upon marrying outside of the church and has a freaking cross on their flag.
Depends on the country and the situation.  There were certainly programs to actually increase childbirth in certain communist countries, and in those periods abortions and birth control would be off the table.  The Soviet Union had some programs in that vein, such as the Mother Heroine which later morphed into the Russian Federation's Order of Parental Glory. But if overpopulation was perceived as a problem, it was definitely back on the table, for instance in China. The requirements for abortion or the lack thereof were based on State objectives rather than individual interest.  And sure, certainly where the religions remained strong despite socialism, that would play a part as well.
You're right, it was the state's objective at play. I'm talking about a former Soviet puppet (not a Soviet state, but under their control) and they certainly aimed to increase birth rate. At the same time, they refused to help single mothers, out of work mothers, etc. They were very happy to just take your kids and throw you on the street. Religion is deeply ingrained in my country and certainly no amount of socialist bullshit could take that away, but it was never supported by the government. The people simply remained strong in their convictions.

I feel like "by" might be a more appropriate preposition here than "After".

disgusting
Why is anyone surprised? Not too long ago the justices who're a member of the demographics that benefit from affirmative action ruled in favor of it. What do you think would had happen if Ginsburg,Breyer,and Sotomayor were either Asian or  White Males? https://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/24/us/politics/supreme-court-affirmative-action-university-of-texas.html In a windowless classroom at an Arcadia tutoring center, parents crammed into child-sized desks and dug through their pockets and purses for pens as Ann Lee launches a PowerPoint presentation. Her primer on college admissions begins with the basics: application deadlines, the relative virtues of the SAT versus the ACT and how many Advanced Placement tests to take. Then she eases into a potentially incendiary topic — one that many counselors like her have learned they cannot avoid. “Let's talk about Asians,” she says. Lee's next slide shows three columns of numbers from a Princeton University study that tried to measure how race and ethnicity affect admissions by using SAT scores as a benchmark. It uses the term “bonus” to describe how many extra SAT points an applicant's race is worth. She points to the first column. African Americans received a “bonus” of 230 points, Lee says. She points to the second column. “Hispanics received a bonus of 185 points.” The last column draws gasps. Asian Americans, Lee says, are penalized by 50 points — in other words, they had to do that much better to win admission. http://www.latimes.com/local/california/la-me-adv-asian-race-tutoring-20150222-story.html#page=1

This woman is a hero
Heck, we should erect a monument in her honor.
Jen 💓 so glad to know her!
I can't help but think that the 'have an abortion, it will be easier' argument actually only applies to the people other than the mother. From their perspective the problem goes away and they don't have to think about it anymore, but the mother will always carry the scars.
This is frequently the case.  It is easier on the family, the boyfriend, her friends, and even the government when you make the problem "go away".  And if you have the mother convinced that it is "empowering" to be able to head over an take care of the "problem" they start feeling un-progressive if they challenge it. Unfortunately, I am sure some women are a-ok with it, but I've known a few who might not have taken that path if it wasn't expected.
Jennifer Christie-Brierly  is a hero because she does not wallow in victimhood but rises above it.  This sets her above the sanctified victim culture that is so trendy.
That is so very selfless and courageous. I applaud the mother. Bravo.

It's still a baby and still a life.
Tell that to this guy. This is some seriously bad logic. Grow up.
If the mother didn't get an abortion and the baby was already born, would you still be okay with killing it?
You do know that guilt isn't genetic, right?
So? A child isn't guilty of the crimes their parent(s) committed. It isn't fair to judge an innocent person for the actions of someone else.


Ahh a legitimate chart for once :P
This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.
I'm more mad at the blatant chart-abuse. This implies that abortion, heart disease, and cancer are the only three ways that anyone can die; a bar graph would've been a much better choice.
It says "leading causes of death," not all causes of death.
Putting gun death in there, for instance, and showing it is basically 1/30th of the abortion rate might be interesting, albeit likely seen as argumentative in the current climate.

Well, abortion is either like taking a shit or it’s killing a baby.
Couldn't it also be like putting a dog to sleep?
That's his (Louis C.K.) line, not mine.
This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.

49% of Democrat voters may oppose abortion after 20 weeks.  <1% of Democrats vote against it in congress.
It is nice to see people and organizations willing to campaign and support pro-life candidates regardless of their party affiliation.
i'm pro-choice, but i would agree with this and i find that a lot of people see pro-lifers as not caring about life after birth, because of the way they vote (which is often conservative)
An understandable view, although it would be difficult to support any candidate who supports a party whose platform now includes repealing the Hyde Amendment. At some point you have to realize that people are being killed, hundreds of thousands per year.  That needs to stop.  Perhaps the Republicans are assholes, but abortions kill 10 times the number of people killed with guns every year.
This may have been asked before i'm not sure but the question came to mind after I saw a youtube video which basically put people from both sides in a room to see what they had in common.For full disclosure: I consider myself pro-choice, although i wouldn't choose abortion for myself purely because it doesn't sit well with me, I believe every woman should make that decision for themselves. However, the animosity and lack of any willingness to compromise or talk that comes from both sides of this debate, while understandable, concerns and frustrates me.So my question to you if you are pro-life is what do you consider to be the best way to bridge the gap and start more productive conversations between pro-choice/pro-life supporters?
Thanks for posting. I think sometimes pro-lifer don't mention the woman involved in the pregnancy. I don't think this is because they are uncaring it's just that the baby is the one which is most affected by abortion and they are very busy trying to protect them. I think prolifers should offer alternative solutions to abortion. I 100% believe that there isn't a woman who would choose abortion if she was given a better solution and given enough support I think we should look at the reasons why women get abortions and tackle these head on. Some get them because they are worried about having a child. There should be free councelling services where women can talk through their problems (some people might scoff at the idea that councelling would be any use, but i use to have depression and suicidality and councelling was very useful). the councelling could involve going through all the womans options such as preparing to be a parent, open adoption or closed adoption. Councelling could also be useful for helping with the day to day stresses of pregnancy and let the woman vent. Prolifers should also make adoption more widely known. Examples of supports (in my country) I'm from Ireland and here are websites with info on free councelling services for crisis pregnancies: http://www.cura.ie/services/support-for-unplanned-pregnancy http://www.positiveoptions.ie http://www.positiveoptions.ie/about-adoption/ I found it interesting when you said that you are personally against abortion but think that it should be left up to the woman (because she is the one who this affects the most) . I have a bit of a problem with this though. We both are personally against the killing of born-babies and not only that but we would definitely stop someone trying to kill a born-baby. Therefore their must be a significant difference with killing a born baby and an unborn baby in the womb. However here is a quick outline of my reasoning on  why there isn't a significant difference (would love to hear your views if you want to share them.) Development: Often people justify abortion by saying the unborn baby isnt developed enough and is way too different to a born baby. However at 10 weeks gestation (approx. 8 weeks after fertillisation/conception) the baby has a brain, spinal chord, nerves has organs and can move their limbs:https://www.babycenter.com/6_your-pregnancy-10-weeks_1099.bc (This is not a prolife website, so no motive to be biased) The Unborn baby is inside and using the pregnant woman's body: Although there are a lot of women who love being pregnant and are excited, I know it can be hugely intimidating having a baby grow inside you (this why i think councelling is important). However if you were to look at a  23 week prematurely born baby you wouldn't want someone to be able to kill it. If that baby was in the womb it  is just as horrify to allow someone to kill it. P.S You sound like you would be intrested in this subreddit:https://www.reddit.com/r/Abortiondebate/ (however feel free to still post here) r/abortiondebate is only relatively new so not much is happening there right now. It is moderated by 2 pro-choicers and 2 pro-lifers.
Lovely discourse.
Yes, i would agree that making life easier for new mums and making the circumstances surrounding adoption better is a good way to bridge the gap. What sort of ideas would you propose as a way to increase the availability of services such as counselling etc, should it be funded by the government? In terms of my own views, i see the baby as a life, and therefore abortion as destroying that life, but i do not necessarily see death as such a bad thing. I think that for so long as a baby is reliant on the mother solely for survival and is inside the mother, then it is up to the mother whether the baby should be allowed to continue using her as 'life support' . If the mother herself has no problem with letting the baby die, then i believe that is her moral justification to make. (I do believe that there should be better education about the potential physical and emotional affects of abortion, just not from a biased or religious source) Once the baby can be born and is no longer reliant on the mother, then it is not moral, because the baby can be given to someone else to look after. I also see abortion as somewhat of an adaption to life, in that in a difficult situation, a mother may choose to abort the baby because she knows that the baby won't have a good life, or poses a risk to her other children/her ability to care for her other children (similar to how some animals eat their young i guess) and that if we were to ban abortion, women would still find ways of adapting to their environment, only it would be in the forms of coat hangers, so i would rather give women the chance to choose a safer option. In terms of the babies autonomy and rights, i think that for long as it remains reliant on the mother, they are essentially void/are one and the same, in a similar way that a tapeworm doesn't have the right to your body. wow that got long hahah, will check out r/abortiondebate, than you also for such a reasoned and well-thought-out response!
This seems like an entirely irrelevant consideration. I doubt you'd apply the same reasoning to infanticide. If your response is that the infant can be supported by someone else, then clearly that is your justification for abortion, and the "won't have a good life" excuse is a red herring.
Good comment, but I disagree with 'I 100% believe that there isn't a woman who would choose abortion if she was given a better solution and given enough support' I respect your view but not all females value embryos/fetus/baby more than their own bodily autonomy otherwise Ireland would not have 10 women a day travelling for abortion. Not all women want to be pregnant, just google 'childfree' or r/childfree
this is a good point, some people feel a lot of resentment towards the child or just plain and simple don't want to reproduce and pass on their genes
r/childfree is for people who don't want to raise kids. However this doesn't mean they would abort the child if they accidentally got pregnant, they would just give the child to an adoptive family. I think women in this situation should get all the support they need.
I am going to avoid getting into a debate about the morality of abortion, but I do want to respond to one of your points. The CPC's in the states are known to mislead, lie and provide false medical information to women. Here are some facts on the matter: https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/women/reports/2018/03/14/447885/anti-choice-movements-continued-pursuit-politicized-medicine/ https://journalistsresource.org/studies/government/health-care/crisis-pregnancy-centers-abortion Also, check the stickied post on CPC's on r/prochoice How would you respond to this issue?
Name and shame those who are actually unethical. Support those that are not. But bear in mind, what is going to look unethical to a pro-choicer and a pro-lifer is going to differ. I'm all for people not being trapped or misled into going somewhere where they thought they'd get an abortion or worse, to see an actual licensed medical professional, and there wasn't one.  I don't like ambushes like that. I also don't like when they are used for recruitment. On the other hand, I don't see a problem with them using persuasion or the language of their ethics or morality to counsel people into making a good choice. And I do think they should have an actually robust program for helping support women through pregnancy and beyond that isn't just convincing them to have a baby.
Here is what I think is unethical: A larger examination of 254 CPC websites, published in Contraception in 2014, found that 80 percent provided at least one item of false or misleading information — most commonly, claiming links between abortion and mental health concerns. A study published in 2017 in Women’s Health Issues focused on the websites of crisis pregnancy centers in Georgia. It reviewed all of the accessible websites of the CPCs in the state and found that more than half had “false or misleading statements regarding the need to make a decision about abortion or links between abortion and mental health problems or breast cancer.” Eighty-nine percent of sites did not indicate that their centers do not offer contraceptives or direct patients to resources where they might find them. http://www.whijournal.com/article/S1049-3867(17)30331-6/fulltext Researchers from the University of North Carolina who visited 19 CPCs in the state from March to June of 2011 found that nearly half “provide counseling on abortion and its risks,” and over half provided at least one piece of information that was misleading or false, ranging from the efficacy of condoms to links between abortion and infertility, breast cancer and mental health problems. You can be against abortion, but providing false and misleading information is just unethical. While CPCs tend to provide inaccurate information about abortion, a study published in 2016 in Contraception suggests that many who visit these centers in-person are not seeking pregnancy counseling. The researchers looked at the reasons why 273 first-time clients went to a secular pregnancy resource center in Indiana and found that only 6 percent discussed pregnancy options during their visit. Most said they went to the center for parenting-related support, including free diapers and baby clothes. Many women don't even get the help they need at these places.
"States should not list agencies that provide inaccurate information as resources in their directories." Agreed.  If they give inaccurate information, they shouldn't be listed, or at least they should be asked to remove those parts of their material which may be false or misleading.  Assuming all of these studies were fair, then only the ethical CPC's should be listed. We should certainly use unbiased studies to encourage increased funding for ethical CPCs.
What issue do you have with the studies I presented? They were neutral, conducted by scientific journals and follows all procedural requirements when it comes to methodology. And it's not just one study, but multiple studies from different sources that come to the same conclusion that the majority of CPC's provide false information and don't actually give or provide care. Perhaps the question we should be asking is if the Pro-Life movement sincerely believes in its fundamental premise, why are their so much intellectual dishonesty and misinformation when promoting others. I think it's perfectly ethical and fine to have debates about the beginning of life, but I don't think its ethical to deliberately lie about things and provide misinformation.
I don't have any issue with the studies that you have provided, although I admit I'd like to look at the data. No one is going to suggest that there can't be problems with CPCs, and I would like to see if they can be rectified.  They're a good idea in principle, but nothing prevents them from being formed by some church for proselytizing or from being run by people who are willing to cut ethical corners to, in their minds, save lives. However, if you're simply suggesting that no one actually believes the pro-life premise based on the actions of some CPC folks, that's a pretty big stretch and I would take you to task for that sort of argument.  You really should know better than that. I mean, even if every CPC operator was unethical and corrupt, it wouldn't change the argument one iota.  It would just mean that we need to get better at founding organizations that aren't corrupt or unethical.  I wish that holding one correct idea, that abortion is wrong, makes us all into infallible superhumans, but it doesn't.
All the data is in my previous response. That's not what I am suggesting. I am just commenting on why there is such a widespread need to lie about these issues and manipulate women in order to push forward your position. I just find it a bit perplexing that their the pro-life movement has put forward so many claims that are just incoherent with the scientific and factual reality, such as the silent scream, fetal pain, the breast cancer link etc. There is disagreement, and then there is a distortion of facts which we see a lot from CPC's as I provided.
Don't let emotions get in the way. Don't get angry or upset and resort to unconstructive name-calling and off-topic hypotheticals. Just listen to all points and respond thoughtfully and concisely, even when the other side is fuming.
I wish I had more upvotes to give. Verywel put.
Pro-Choicer here. I second this opinion.
Welcome! 🙂
yes, i agree, think this is very important no matter what side of the debate you are on
The future of social movements is usually not in converting the hardline opposition (though this is always welcome) but in creating a new normal for the majority. In terms of debating prochoicers, I don't believe there's anything more than can/needs to be done. Instead, we need to create cultural change, normalize prolife views and push harder and harder for recognition and protection of life from conception. When it comes to the murder of children, there is no room for compromise. It would be appalling if there was no animosity against it.
How do you think the pro-life movement is going to create cultural change and normalise pro-life views, when a large percentage of the population doesn't view abortion as murder, or views it as an acceptable form of murder (there may be a word for that but i'm not sure of it)? (hope this doesn't come across as argumentative, just genuinely asking)
I believe the word you're looking for is "justified homicide".
How did the prochoice movement create cultural change? How did the slavery abolition movement create cultural change? Every movement starts with a large percentage of the population against it. Right now in the US it is about 50/50, so we are already better off than those two. It's all about inserting prolife views into the popular consciousness until they are accepted (like, human rights for all humans, life from conception), discrediting the prochoice side as unscientific and inhumane, and having more children and raising them prolife. However, it's important to remember that at a fundamental level, public morality will not change until it is convenient for them. Slavery became unpopular when technological and social change made the alternative viable. Abortion became popular when the sexual revolution resulted in many women getting pregnant outside of marriage. Abortion will end when the demand for it goes away, ie when sexual morality changes such that the majority condemns and is not having sex outside of marriage.
so to be clear, you believe that people shouldn't be having sex outside of marriage? What about those who do not who are married but don't want children?
The vast majority (over 85%) of abortions happen when women get pregnant outside of marriage. While I don't condone murder, I understand - it's a lot easier than enduring pregnancy and birth and 18+ years of care alone. Abortion became accepted because of the sexual revolution. People were having sex outside of marriage not wanting/expecting to get pregnant, but getting pregnant anyway. If they'd rather murder than raise children, they shouldn't be doing things that could result in producing a child.
so by this i'm assuming you are a pro-abstinence pro-lifer?
Sex is an activity meant to produce children, and despite people's efforts at thwarting it, it tends to succeed. Not having sex results in not having children. So yeah, if people would rather kill a child than be pregnant, abstinence is the only reasonable option.
i think it's likely having this stance won't get you very far and i doubt any conversation between us would be very productive. thanks for your input anyway.
Tbh this stance is the only one that's been proven to work wrt keeping public morality against abortion.
personally, i don't support any sort of sex-shaming or the idea of abstinence since i see sex as something that can be beautiful, and more importantly, doesn't have to result in a child (many different types of sex/the use of birth control) and i don't support the concept of marriage so i hope society moves more in this direction. it's what i'll be working towards anyway.

People really need to stay open minded, even in the face of someone who disagrees with them. Human nature doesn’t allow much in that way though, which makes the debate so difficult. A pro-choice source will argue it’s not alive. The pro life side will argue “then when is it alive?” The pro choice argument will use heartbeat, first brain waves, first breath, etc. the pro life side will have an argument against that. The pro choice side will bring science into it. The pro life side will quote science back. In the end all we’re left with is “I don’t care if it’s a life, if it’s inconvenient to me I want it gone”. The pro life side can argue against this all they want, but they’re not the ones it directly inconveniences therefore they’re at a disadvantage. I think the entire argument is just human’s nature to self-preservation. Selfishness, if you will, which is not something easily overridden and something every human being will be guilty of.
I think there is some compromise that can be had. Oftentimes pro-choice sides will argue “what about in cases of rape of incest” for example. I’m pro life but I can definitely see allowing abortions in certain cases. My main concern is the over 90% of abortions that are done more out of convenience than anything else. Any move to reduce abortions and help young mothers who are struggling can be seen as a positive movement. It’s huge steps in the pro life direction by showing that human life, ALL life, is valued. Although saddening, it would be cruel to force a traumatized young woman who did not willingly participate in sex to bear the responsibility for the rest of her life. When someone willingly participates, knowing full well where children come from, the matter is different. That’s how I see it anyway. I also support easily available birth control (non-abortifacient methods). If the existence of a baby can be removed from the equation, then there is no death, and both sides can be happy. I think compromise in the effort of finding common ground is key in any debate.
The problem is that no one's mental distress can violate someone else's right to life. Abortion is not justified by rape. When we compromise on rape cases, we are essentially telling prochoicers "we don't actually believe abortion is murdering innocent babies, we just want to punish women who are sluts."
It’s rough I agree. In a perfect world, no babies would die ever. But in the end, to fight for the majority, perhaps some concessions must be made. Again just my thoughts.
While I understand that view, I disagree. Any concessions when we are talking about murder only discredits our argument to the opposition (they don't really believe it's murder, they just want to control women) and to other prolifers. If we stop believing that the unborn truly deserve equal human rights and that sometimes abortion isn't murder,  we eventually lose the will to keep fighting it.
Depends on the justification for the exception...and if people are good at listening.
I understand many of the prolifers who want exceptions have good intentions, but it still violates the child's right to life and I think that most people will see that. It is a good way for the opposition to discredit our claim that abortion is murder and that the unborn have equal rights.
I'm not talking about intentions; I'm talking about consistent logical reasoning. Many (not all) of us who hold the rape exception (me) disagree that abortion in cases of rape violates a right to life, because the right to life in any other situation doesn't entail the right to use another person's body to sustain your life when that person isn't even responsible for your condition. The fact that some pro-choicers don't listen and find this as a way to discredit pro-lifers is not a fault of the position I hold. I'm not going to change what I see as a logically consistent position because people don't listen.
Getting really good at sticking to the topic and not allowing the conversation to be hijacked by emotional responses.
I think the best way is to keep pointing out logical inconsistencies, but even then I don't think there is anything that will successfully bridge that gap. For example, in reading your other comments in this thread (which are pleasantly respectfully and thoughtful) you mention that you think abortion is killing but justified because the woman should be able to decide what happens to her body. It's easy for me to point out that there are likely exceptions to that,  and ones people generally agree with, but in all likelihood it would do nothing to actually make you see it differently. You might agree that a woman shouldn't really be able to do anything she wants to anything inside her body, but it wouldn't force you to change your initial idea. You might agree that there are some instances where another life trumps the right to refuse, but I have a feeling you would still go back to your original statement. This isn't a criticism of you since this is obviously speculation from experience, but once someone finds an argument that resonates with them, pointing out inconsistencies doesn't do much. The reason I think it's our best hope though is because that's how I made the leap. I was a bodily autonomy, right to refuse, clump of cells etc etc pro-choicer for most of my life so far, and seeing those inconsistencies over time made me question why I thought what I did. I'd recommend two things that I think would interest you: http://doc.jfaweb.org/Training/DeFactoGuardian-v03.pdf http://doc.jfaweb.org/Tim_Brahm/AutumnSovereignZone.pdf Not as long as they seem and very relevant.
I think pointing out logical inconsistencies is a good way to go about it, since that was what primarily led me to become pro-choice. I do think there are logical inconsistencies on both sides, but for me, the pro-choice argument that if a baby is relying solely on the mothers body, and the mother has bodily autonomy then therefore the mother should have the right to do what she wants to her body and by extension, the baby makes more sense than the pro-life argument did. Whether or not i would change my views based on what you said remains to be seen haha, but in general i am a big supporter of people being able to do whatever they want with/to their bodies so long as it doesn't hurt another (fully independent) person I had a quick look through the pdf's you linked, neither really offered up anything that seemed particularly logical to me, but i can see why they might to you and i do think presenting your views in such a way is a good way to go about things, might try something similar in my vegan activism.
So, conjoined twins, can they kill each other on demand and without apology? Curious because that seems to be where your logic leads. Or imagine a scenario where a born baby is dependent on their parent for surviva and they can not be relinquished to another caregiver, can the parent kill her? Why or why not? How would the above scenarios be any morally different than abortion?
in the case of conjoined twins, lets simplify it and split it into two categories: twins that can be separated without causing death and twins that can't. For the twins that can (ex: twins that are joined at the hand) the two can be separated with appropriate medical intervention, without causing death to either, this means that the twins aren't reliant on one another to survive and can therefore be separated, one is not using the other to survive and therefore it is not morally justifiable for one to kill the other, when the other is not using their body, since they can simply be removed. In the case of twins that can't ex: twins that share a heart, they would be considered as having one body, or the same body and therefore for one to kill the other, they would essentially be killing themselves, which isn't illegal, but is a whole different kettle of fish to start debating. In a scenario in which a baby is born and is totally dependent on the parent for survival for some bizarre reason, then the parent has no obligation to provide that life support in the same way that they cannot be forced to give blood to the child, and if therefore the child dies, then that is their moral justification to make. When attached to the parent, the child lives, when removed from the parent as the parent desires, the child may well die. If the parent doesn't want to provide the necessary life support for the child, they shouldn't be forced to, same goes for abortion.
Let me make it easier for you so you can't change the question around to suit your ideology. Imagine that one conjoined twin contracts a disease that will render her depend on her brother for 7-9 months, after which she will be fully healed and a doctor can safely perform a separation. The brother does not want to wait. He wants to be separated right now, even though it will kill his sister. You and I both know that no doctor in their right mind would ever just perform the surgery despite the consequences (death of the sibling). Ever doctor and the law would say he must wait. Do you really believe that this would be within his (the brother's) rights? Imagine the second scenario, where a father takes his newborn daughter to his remote cottage for a mini vacation. Maybe say, to give the mother a break. A storm hits, they become snowbound. Help can not come for months. There is enough formula to feed the child and enough food to keep up his own sustenance. Legally the father must care for his child in this scenario. He must use his body (whether he wants to or not) to wake up, make bottles, rock the child to sleep etc.). This is called parental responsibility law. Would you really be o.k. with father deciding that it's too overwhelming and allow him to leave the child to starve to death or to freeze out in the cold? If he did any of these things he would be charged with negligence at best and murder at worst. This kind of atrocious behaviour is what you would have to accept if you insist on sticking to the logic you presented early. This is why I think the prochoice rhetoric is either logically inconsistent or leads to the acceptance of atrocious behaviour. So, would you really be fine with these things? If not, what is the moral difference between the two scenarios? If you would be ok with killing the baby or the twin in these scenarios then I would say that although you may be logically consistent, you are morally bankrupt and this is the biggest problem I have with your ideology. If you are not, then I would ask why? And how the situation of abortion is any morally different than the above scenarios.
I don't see how pregnancy is morally different from conjoined twins that "share a body." Logical inconsistencies is what caused me to become pro-life because I think pro-life has no logical inconsistencies when spelled out sufficiently while pro-choicers only consistent position smacks of moral absurdity and therefore is untenable.
it seems to me that what you're saying here is that the woman and the baby share a body and are therefore the same person, but isn't the pro-life argument that the baby and the mother are two separate entities. what i'm saying is that the woman has a right to do what she wants with and to her own body, and if the child is solely reliant on her, to the point that it is actually inside her body, using her internal organs and changing the very way she functions, then the woman should be able to exercise her right to manipulate her body in the way she wants to, and if that involves removing the foetus, then so be it. I don't believe that the foetus has a right to life that surpasses the ability of the mother to exercise control over her own body, and this isn't even really an opinion when you think about it, it's just a fact. The foetus is completely reliant on the mother, it can't make decisions, and therefore the mothers body makes decisions for it. Whether abortion is legal or not doesn't change the fact that the mother can still stick a coat hanger up there or drink a certain tea or throw herself down a flight of stairs because ultimately, the foetus is at her mercy, this is how nature works.
No. I'm saying they are separate persons that share a body just like conjoined twins. You said you don't think one twin should be able to kill the other. I'm saying I don't see the moral difference between pregnancy and that. So, I'm not sure why you think it's consistent to say it's not OK for one twin to kill another but it is OK for the mother to kill her child.
because the mother and foetus do share a body in rudimentary terms. in reality its more like the foetus is using the mothers body. in the case of conjoined twins that do not share a body, one is not dependent on the other, unlike in the case of a foetus and woman
What if there is a conjoined twin case where one day one twin 1 relies on twin 2 and the next day twin 2 relies on twin 1. And it switches back and forth like that. Does which twin can kill the other twin depend on which day it is? Like the first day twin 1 can kill twin 2 but the next day twin 2 can kill twin 1 and so on? Suppose this reliance switching only lasts about 9 months. Instead of saying it's OK to kill based on which one is reliant on the other wouldn't it make more sense to say it's not permissible to for either to kill the other twin and to just share their body for 9 months. And what if the woman is using the fetus to her advantage. Suppose that a mother has been sentenced to death on death row but she is pregnant so her death sentence has been postponed until she gives birth. Now the woman is reliant on the fetus for her survival. If the fetus could talk would it be OK for the fetus to decide whether the mother dies? If you don't like that imagine the mother has some weird disease and she will die if she detaches from the fetus but the fetus can live on. Suppose we had a machine that could read the decision from the fetus from the brain waves and it turns out the fetus doesn't really care to be attached to the woman that is using the fetus to her advantage. Should we detach the fetus and kill the mother?
yes it would be okay, it's more likely that they'd come to some sort of agreement however 2- if the mother was reliant on the foetus's body for survival then yes it would be OK 3- these are getting more and more ridiculous but yes, if the foetus really wanted to be detached and stop the mother from using it's body as life support then you can detach the foetus, sort of like passive euthanasia

So does that mean you're okay with a mother harming her 6 month old baby just because the baby isn't fully independent? Isn't it more logical for us to protect human beings who are less independent because they are more defenseless? After all, most people consider crimes against children to be far worse than crimes against adults precisely because they are less independent and capable of taking care of themselves.
you misunderstand me, 6 month old babies are in my view, considered fully independent. they are not reliant on one specific person to survive and can be given to another.
I don't understand why you think that in-dependency is a relevant factor. Let's say on a cold winter day, you open your front door and find a baby abandoned on your porch. If you don't immediately bring the baby inside and care for it, it will certainly die. Shouldn't you be legally obligated to care for the child for just a few hours until someone else can come and take it? What does it matter that the baby in that moment is exclusively dependent on you? This shouldn't give you the right to kill the baby.
i mean, no you shouldn't. the vast majority of people would take in that baby, but if you don't want to, you shouldn't have to provide care for the child. If you're okay with the fact that it will die unless you let it use you as a caregiver, then that's your choice. if you go and stab the baby, that's a different matter, because that's going out of your way to directly harm the baby. I think that whether or not a person is dependent is another is the most key factor in this entire debate.
I'll admit that the example that I gave of a baby on your porch isn't exactly synonymous with abortion. In fact, getting an abortion is even worse than leaving a baby on your porch to die. The main difference is that if you left the baby, it would die because of the weather, not you. Going out of your way to stab the baby however, would be even worse. This is exactly what abortion is. Abortion is not just leaving a baby to die, rather it is a deliberately act of killing and then removing the child from the body. And again, please explain to me why you think that dependency is a key factor. Because for me, talking about dependency is as arbitrary as talking about age or ethnicity. I just don't understand why it should be a relevant factor in deciding who can and cannot be killed.
and unknowingly there, you've hit the reason my personal view on abortion is complex. I think that a woman should be able to get an abortion if she so wishes. However I do distinguish between different types of abortion, which is why i am a much bigger supporter of the pill since it essentially induces a miscarriage, which is the bodies natural way of getting rid of an unwanted foetus. I do not see abortion as synonymous with stabbing a baby outside of a house because all you are doing is removing the baby from the caregiver. If it's old enough, it will survive, if it's not, it won't. Dependency is what my entire view of abortion hinges on. The baby is primarily dependent /only/ on the mother. There is no one else on the planet that can provide the necessary life support for it. Not only that, but it is inside the mother, shares blood with the mother and is using the internal organs of the mother, changing the shape and functioning of her body, making her more prone to developing certain conditions and less able to do certain activities, possibly even posing a danger to her life. It is solely dependent on the mother, it is not an independent being. It is a being, but it is by no means independent. This is important because this means that the mother is solely responsible for providing care for it, using her own body. Since the mother has bodily autonomy, and the right to manipulate her own body as she pleases, she can therefore decide to withdraw care from the foetus, no longer allowing it to use her body to grow. You can debate whether or not you think this action is moral or not, i happen to think it is immoral but whether or not you think it is moral or not, it still remains true. Society can make it harder for her to remove the foetus safely, but that doesn't change the fact that if she no longer wants to provide care for the foetus, doesn't have to and in my opinion, shouldn't have to. Dependency is so incredibly vital to this conversation for me because as soon as a baby becomes independent or can become independent, then the mother is no longer the only person capable of providing care. This means that the mothers body doesn't have to be used by the baby, and the baby can be removed from the mother and cared for by another.
Miscarriage happens when the body is not functioning normally. It may be a common occurrence, but is by no means natural. Furthermore, what does it matter if a child is aborted through a pill or instead torn part? In both cases the child is still being deliberately killed. Abortion isn't just removing the baby. It is more akin to either cutting a person off of life support, or tearing them apart and then throwing them out (depending on what type of abortion is being performed). Here are some links in which an OBGYN explains how different types of abortions are actually carried out: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lRDnVSMr5j0 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5THDmys8z30 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jgw4X7Dw_3k https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r5Af8vIym2o And even if abortion was the same as just removing the baby, it still guarantees the death of the baby. It's comparable to a mother abandoning her child in a desolate area where she knows for certain no one will come and adopt the child. You need to remember that in the vast majority of cases, the child came into existence and became dependent on the mother because of her (and the father's) own deliberate actions. Please explain to me why it should be legal to force another human being to become dependent on you and you alone, and then kill them off afterwards because you don't like it. No baby has ever chosen to enter a woman's body, rather it is usually the woman who chose to participate in certain actions that resulted in her baby become dependent on her alone. Also, I still don't understand why you believe so strongly in bodily autonomy. Isn't the right to life greater than the right to your own body? And what about the baby's bodily autonomy? Lets say a mother deliberately feeds her child poison which destroys the child's kidneys. Obviously this kid is going to need a donor soon or else he'll die. Unfortunately, his mother is the only person in the world who is a match for him and can save his life. Considering the fact that the mother intentionally made her child dependent on her alone, shouldn't she be forced to go through the inconvenience of an organ transplant to save the child's life? As I already asked before, why should it be legal for someone to make their child dependent on them alone, and then kill the child off because it's inconvenient for them?
I am not OP but I also distinguish the two cases. Let's say I concede that the fetus is a human being. I am still entitled to deny it access to my body's resources (blocking progesterone) and expel it from my body (misoprostol). But it's less clear whether I'm entitled to tear their body apart - it's their body after all, and they're entitled to bodily autonomy just as I am (admittedly reduced because they're not fully sentient / capable, but still). No. This is a very slippery slope to go down, especially when our criminal justice system is very classist (realistically if the mother had had a better lawyer, she may not have been found guilty -- meaning she wouldn't have to give up an organ). Not to mention that if you drive a car, safely or unsafely, and injure another person you are not obligated to give them organs. Why treat this case differently? One of the reasons I am so in favor of bodily autonomy is that it prevents this slippery slope -- after all, if drugs that can induce abortions are off limits, what's next? Prevent women from having all teratogenic drugs? No cheese or meat due to listeria risk? No heavy weightlifting? I dunno. I'm willing to cede that abortion is an amoral or immoral act, but I still don't think it should be illegal. I don't know what to do about how I feel-- the cabin story was appealing and I agree that perhaps it's immoral not to feed the child, but I didn't think they should be legally obligated to when they didn't sign up for it. Thoughts?

i don't have a lot of time so i will bullet point my responses miscarriage can happen when the body is not functioning normally, but a huge amount of miscarriages actually occur when the foetus is deemed as genetically unfit, and is therefore relinquished. another reason a miscarriage may happen is due to stress, if the mother is too stressed and worried, she may miscarry because she is not in the right mental position at that time to carry a pregnancy through, it's like a biological adaptation. pregnancy can and does occur from the deliberate actions of two people. the reason i find your argument invalid is that i see it as very similar to the antinatalist argument, which at it's core, argues that it is immoral to bring life into the world at all. to pose that as a question: explain to me why it should be legal to force another human being to be dependent on you, only to have them live in a world full of suffering, where they will undoubtably experience pain at some point, and may even die a painful death. in my view, i do not see death as a bad thing, which is why i am for the legalisation of euthanasia. i also view the foetus as dependent on the mother, which means that during the time that it is dependent on the mother, the mother makes decisions regarding how the foetus and for the foetus and if she decides that she no longer wants to allow the foetus space in her body, so be it. no i don't believe that the foetus's right to life is greater than the women's right to her own body and i wouldn't say that the foetus has fully developed bodily autonomy, because of it's dependency on the mother, which is so deep that they even share blood and tissue. I don't believe that the foetus has a right to life that surpasses the ability of the mother to exercise control over her own body. no i do not believe that the mother should be forced to go through the inconvenience of an organ transplant, despite what she did to her child, because the childs right to life doesn't surpass her right to control her own body. it's a shitty thing to do to a child, but nevertheless.

I don't understand why so many people think there is a common ground on political or moral issues that are diametrically opposed to one another. What's probably going to happen to the prolife movement - It's going to die out. Most anti-abortion people are religious conservatives (not all, but the overwhelming majority). Religion is declining. The fastest growing religion in the United States (and most advanced countries) is no religion. Also... As science continues to progress and we can do things like screen embryos or even directly engineer different traits before birth (e.g. the movie Gattaca), grow a fetus outside the body via an artificial uterus, create an embryo from two men or two women, or clone people... Birth and reproduction will probably seem less magical to people, changing attitudes about abortion. Although I could be wrong. I'm sure if you asked someone in 1973, right after Roe v. Wade, what support for and against abortion would be 45 years later, they would assume one side would have won by now. If you look at polling go back to the 70s it's basically been the same: http://news.gallup.com/poll/1576/abortion.aspx I just can't imagine a future, like 50 to 100+ years from now, where most people are non-religious, we have almost complete control over our biology via genetic engineering, and people are still debating abortion.
yeah, i do think that religion will continue to decline, or at least religion as we know it, and I can't imagine a world that restricts women's choices without the dominating influence of religion
The pro-life movement absolutely has to distance itself from the anti-birth control movement.
agreed, but what about the pro-lifers who disagree with birth control?
Don't use birth control? Unlike abortion, there is no good secular reason to try to prevent other people from using birth control.
From what I've seen, most pro-lifers who are against birth control don't want it to be illegal (unlike abortion). They just think it's immoral.
You realize the pro-life movement was founded by a majority of Catholics right?
You do realize that Catholics don't want birth control to be illegal or inaccessible? They just don't want their money to go toward it. I'm not even Christian/catholic and I get it. Pro-choicers bring up birth control more than anyone else, so they can keep non-issues in the argument. Pro-lifers aren't the ones keeping the issues together.
Wrong. In 1968, Pope Paul VI issued his landmark encyclical letter Humanae Vitae (Latin, "Human Life"), which reemphasized the Church’s constant teaching that it is always intrinsically wrong to use contraception to prevent new human beings from coming into existence. Catholics oppose all forms of birth control because they consider it sinful. http://www.dummies.com/religion/christianity/catholicism/the-catholic-church-and-contraception/
You are 100% correct in saying that the Catholic Church teaches that all artificial birth control is immoral. However, I don’t think Catholics would necessarily fight for the outlawing of birth control.
Which is why they don't use it themselves. Thanks for proving my point.
We believe abortion is murder. It's honestly kind of hard to discuss things or find a compromise. I mean, imagine someone arguing that we should be allowed to euthanize infants and toddlers? I assume even prochoice people would think they're monsters, but that's kinda how we feel about them.
I see what you mean, and as a vegan myself i feel i can kind of relate to your point of view. I guess the main reason I support women's access to abortion, is that i see it as her body to do with what she likes, even though there is another life inside of it (and hence different to euthanising a toddler). In terms of finding a compromise - would you agree that increasing access to birth control and increased sex education as a good way to bridge the gap and get both sides to start working towards a common goal?
I'm pretty sure 99% of prolife people have zero problem with birth control or sex ed. Frankly speaking, I don't even see a problem with birth control access currently. You can find it everywhere and it's not even that expensive. And when it comes to education, most people seem to know the important stuff. I honestly feel it's a culture problem. People know the things they need to know and they have access to the things that would help them, it's just that a lot of people just don't seem to care enough.
yeah, i've seen a few who promote abstinence only sex education, but that luckily seems to be a minority. however, i wouldn't agree that there isn't a problem with birth control access. I know that in many places it is difficult and expensive to get, and sometimes you need to be over a certain age to get the morning after pill for example. As for education, a lot of people know the important stuff because they learnt through the internet, and i've met far too many people that don't know basic stuff, I myself did not receive a satisfactory birth control education and i often feel like my options for birth control are limited because of how much it can cost me. Although I will agree that in some cases people can be careless.
Abstinence only is definitely not a step in the right direction.  Human nature— when you tell someone not to do something, that something suddenly seems a lot more interesting. We already know people are going to be having sex. Let’s at least make it safe, then no baby will get involved, there’s no death, and both sides win.
Thank you for asking this question! There is so much that can go into this answer. I think one of the biggest problems is that prochoice people tend to think that the prolife movement is all about the baby being born, and that's it. No thought about the mother's struggles at all, no thought about the baby afterward and how they're going to survive in often less than ideal (or straight up bad) circumstances. I understand why this is the perception, as it is the most visable part of the movement -- the protests against the legality of abortion, the images of aborted babies and mothers who have been hurt or killed, most interviews on TV, etc are all focused on ending abortion. There is little to no mention of the women involved or resources for people who need hjelp after the baby is born. The most I usually hear is about how it is a deeply unnatural and tramatic event to take a woman, kill her child within her, and send her on her way, and how most women suffer physically and/or psychologicallyfor the rest of their lives. All of which is true, but it always seems a bit of an afterthought and a factoid used as a means toward the end to people on the other side. The prolife movement officially stands to protect and support life from conception to natural death. That means no abortion, euthansia, or death penalty, but also working to protect and support all people throughout the whole of life -- resouces for pregnant and new moms who are struggling, resources for refugees, food for the hungry, shelter for the homeless, care for the sick... these are things that so many prochoice people themselves stand for too (personal differences coming into play when it comes to direct support vs support through the government, but that's a different argument). A lot of these other issues that we have in common are not talked about much in the media, as the main discussion is abortion. It makes sense that this issue is the main one. It is the one that divides us the most, and one that both sides maintain to be the most important. I've seen many a prolifer who gets so caught up in this one issue that they forget about the rest, and this makes it impossible to talk to anyone on the other side and causes women in need of help to run the other direction. That being said, on an individual level, I see prolife people devoting themselves to all the ideals held by the movement - i know people who have adopted both infants and older children, who work in soup kitchens and shelters, who work in youth outreach centers, who donate money to pregnancy crisis centers and new mom charities. But the only times they are really visible is when they march for new laws or pray outside abortion centers. I'm not saying it doesn't need to improve - it definately does. So many of us (on both sides, I think) talk it a lot more than we walk it. I know I do. Check out New Wave Feminists, Feminists for Nonviolent Choices, and Rehumanize International. These groups are incredible at bridging the gap, and at walking the walk. Edit: Crossed out "officially" , because I realize there is no real head of the movement or official document or whatever that clearly defines what the movement is.
Yes, i do see a lot of pro-choice people saying that pro-lifers don't care about the baby after they are born, but i wouldn't agree with them. Would you then say that it is more constructive for pro-lifers to focus a bit more on providing safe spaces and better environments for babies to be born into, as a way to start bridging the gap between the two sides? I do think that many pro-choicers get the idea that pro-lifers don't care about life after birth from the fact that many of the people who support the pro-life movement also tend to vote for parties that make life for mothers in poverty a lot harder or don't support refugees for example (at least this is the case in my country- the UK, and from what i've heard is similar in the US). Do you think this is an issue too? I appreciate such a thought out and considerate response, i like the viewpoint that the pro-life movement isn't just about abortion as when i considered myself pro-life, i often felt that way myself. Although, since you brought it up, I would consider myself a big supporter of euthanasia, especially in circumstances where the person is in a lot of pain and wishes to die- do you feel that everyone in the pro-life movement should be against euthanasia? I will check out the groups you recommended!
*A quick acknowledgement that I got rid of that word "officially", because I realize there is no real head of the prolife movement or official document or whatever that clearly defines what the movement is. The movement was originally formed primarily to protest abortion and has expanded since then to include at least debate on all of these so called "life issues" (rightfully so, in my opinion), but without a governing body to make any of it "official". * I think it would definately be constructive for prolifers to focus equally on informational outreach about the truth of abortion and on helping new mothers who have chosen life despite difficulty. I would love to see a joint effort between prolifers and prochoicers to put together an organization of charities specifically for women who have already chosen not to abort -- to provide prenatal, labor/delivery, and postnatal/pediatric care or, if not medical care, at least food, safety, and mental support, maybe even work. Charities like this do exist, but not enough to meet demand, at least that I've seen. It would take some very special people on both sides - I think it would be hard for each side to trust the other with helping these vulnerable women. I agree, a lot of liberals think that conservatives don't care about many issues involving the poor because they don't usually support government funding for charity or anything really. But that doesn't mean they don't support charity! It's just that they don't want government in charge of it (why is a whole other debate). So if that's the case, people need to step up and donate of their own accord. On a small, local, and individual-driven level people are doing that, at least in the US. On a more national level, I think we are still wanting. As another user pointed out, many prolifers are also for the death penalty, at least in the US. I know there is also a segment that is for euthanasia. I personally believe you can follow an overarching ideology while disagreeing with some of it's tenants (also note as I restated my original thought, and that some of these tenants for prolifers haven't yet been fully established). Some Catholics support birth control and gay marriage. Some liberals are prolife. People in your group will challenge you, so have good reasons to back up your belief. At some point, if you disagree with too many of the tenants of an ideology you'll have to self reflect and see if you do truly subscribe to it. From your posts here it seems like you already do this kind of self reflection well.
You probably meant DEFINITELY -not definately Beep boop. I am ^^a bot whose mission is to correct your spelling. This action was performed automatically. Contact me if I made A mistake or just downvote please don't
Damn it everytime....
Are you Catholic? Other then the seamless garment folks, the majority of the movement is overwhelmingly conservative and supports the death penalty.
I should take back the word "officially" , because I realize there is no real head of the movement or official document or whatever that clearly defines what the movement is. I looked up the definition of "prolife", and got all kinds of different answers.  (Youre right that my understanding seems to be the more Catholic defination, by the way, which makes sense because I'm Catholic) There is a lot of variation in what the individuals in the movement are fighting for. There is even debate around abortion itself: whether abortifacient birth control is okay, and whether exceptions should be made for women who have been raped, etc. That being said, I don't think you can say that because the majority of the movement is comservative that they necessarily support the death penalty. Just because someone votes for prolife candidates or considers themselves politically prolife, that doesn't mean they are a part of ther movement, necessarily. You have to be more involved than that. Also, people can be conservative without supporting the death penalty, just like they can be liberal but also prolife, or be Catholic and support gay marriage. The institution may not like it, but personal beliefs don't always line up to political and religious lines.
Sure, of course, there are personal variations to this, but general statistical research shows that those who are conservative (especially those are Evangelical Protestant, who make up the majority of the Pro-Life movement today) support the death penalty. When we talk about holistic movements, we need to look at where people stand on the issues as a whole and we clearly see people who are conservative and pro-life supporting the death penalty. This is the standard voting block of your movement, and while variations exist, they do not deviate from the standard norm.
Out of curiosity, what what would a "compromise" on the issue of abortion look like?
i see compromise in the abortion debate in a similar way to how i see compromise in the vegan debate. as a vegan, i feel that it is entirely unjustifiable and immoral to kill animals for food or clothing, but some people disagree with me, and i know that to have productive conversations with them we both need to compromise, they need to try and see my point of view, and I theirs so we can find common ground.
That's not compromise; that's just polite discussion. What kind of policy would you consider to be a compromise?
an agreement to focus on things that actually help to reduce abortions, like birth control, making becoming a mother less scary and better sex education, free healthcare and so on perhaps agreeing that surgical abortions are less permissible than medical abortions -working to make abortion laws more bipartisan, or stop involving politics altogether
The first bullet point is literally just the pro-choice position. The second bullet point is incredibly vague. Would this "agreeing" involve a ban on surgical abortions? What makes medical abortions better than surgical ones? How is the suggestion of "working to make abortion laws more bipartisan" not just a rephrasing of the question? How is it possible to make policy on something without "involving politics"?

Make sure all your Pro Life family and friends vote in this election! The stakes are too high for you to stay home. And when you've voted it would be a MASSIVE help if you joined up and help to make those vital GOTV phonecalls and door knocks in the final push!: https://www.judgescrenock.com/volunteer/

Ridiculous
How nice that the ACLU would like me, the taxpayer, to not only pay for abortions, but pay for abortions for non-US citizens.
The Hyde Amendment makes it illegal for Tax Payer money to go towards abortions.
Well, if you don't like illegals, that's one way to get rid of them!  If you don't want to pay $250 for an abortion, do you want to pay for 18 years of food, shelter, and health-care?  I'm for giving CHILDREN basic needs, even if they are illegal.
Abortion is not a basic need.
I can oppose abortion and illegal immigration both. I do not have to pay for the entire world's mistakes. And if you're unwilling to come down hard on women who have sex irresponsibly and end up pregnant, you're part of the problem.
If you are only coming down on WOMEN who have sex irresponsibly, YOU are part of the problem.  Last I checked it takes TWO to have sex and I think we all know what condoms are.
Then you are free to dip into your own bank account and do so. Nobody is stopping you.
I do every year on a wonderful trip to Mexico, I tip much more there than I do here, because they need it more.  I have several waiters that look for us every Christmas.  I <3 Joshua and Carlos.   I wish I could move their families here.  Better workers than most Americans.

I'll go on record saying that women should not be going to jail for miscarriages.  If that means a few illegal abortions go under the radar, so be it.  It is on their conscience, there is only so much that can be done without making the law draconian. I am not in favor of the rape exception, but they do need to ensure women aren't choosing between actually dying and 30 years of jail. Unreasonable laws like this can cause overreaction in the opposite manner which should be carefully guarded against.



savethestorks.com
One of my favorite Ministries. The president of save the storks  had his kids in the same highschool as me so I saw him a lot and he was very active there, he was a very big part of my Church and I believe we still support him as one of our missionaries. A great man and a great ministry, definitely worth everyone's time to check out.
Yes, the fetus is not developed yet. Many people use this as justification for abortions. “It’s not a human yet” and I can see where they’re coming from. It is not yet self aware, has no sense of morality, some say it’s not really “alive” yet.But it will be. To me, I see it as essentially robbing this fetus of it’s future life. It would have grown up to be self aware and have a sense of morality. Because of this, I think it’s wrong to have an abortion.There are still some dilemmas where I’m conflicted. For instance, what if the girl was raped? Should she raise the child herself? Abort it? Put it up for adoption? I don’t know. But I do know that the child itself is innocent and doesn’t deserve to be robbed of it’s life.Note that this is up for discussion to people who are pro-choice also. Just reverse the question.
I mean, only if the person is defining "alive" as "when I feel like it's valuable," which isn't the definition of "alive." A fetus is alive. An embryo is alive. These are facts. People try to inject doubt and nuance into a very straightforward concept by using terms the completely wrong way. "But is it really human?" Yes! Yes it's human. Oh, you meant "human organism that I personally find valuable?" not the actual words you were using? Honestly this is 99% of the conversation, just getting pro-choicers to use words correctly so we can have a real conversation.
Sometimes they literally do define who is worthwhile as a human and will use that in the argument that they should be killed.
Yes, sometimes pro-choicers use words correctly. It's pretty rare in my experience.
Abortion is wrong because it involves murdering an innocent child. You could say the same about a newborn baby. Wrong.
I had a handicapped twin brother. I feel his life was worth living despite him dying young and living in a wheelchair and without the ability to communicate
I feel we give the action of birth undue significance. Many a fetus can be artificially removed earlier and survive. We just choose to pick an arbitrary line (the moment the child leaves the mother) that defines what is independent life and what is not. I am an atheist. But can we, as mere humans, say where a human becomes a human from zygote to birth? I don't think we can. I think we are arrogant and are playing God by euthanizing babies and calling it abortion because they haven't developed to our standards yet. There's a reason women feel guilty after abortion.
I couldn’t of said it better myself
*couldn't have
Does that really add anything to the discussion?
They're reason for being here probably.
*Their. Precision in language is important. Just because you don't find value in that, doesn't take away from its value. Throwing a fit because you can't be bothered to learn proper language skills, and someone goes out of their way to gently correct you is childish.
You understood what I was saying, even though I did it wrong. :)
Haha what? Making a grammar mistake and having you point it out in the middle of a discussion isn’t teaching me anything. It’s not like I don’t know grammar or something. You ever heard the term grammar nazis? I bet you fit that criteria
If you know proper grammar, you should use it. Especially as a pro lifer. Using improper grammar makes you sounds like a moron, and weakens all of our arguments by association.
Haha making one grammar mistake makes me sound like a moron? Yeah, right. Guys, I found the intellectual of the sub. Fuck off
You seem to have a thing about pointing out when other people behave in any way intelligently. I'm not trying to show off. Why are you belittling people? Are you that self conscious about your own intelligence?

r/iamverysmart
Exactly.  We can't base the objective reality of personhood on subjective criteria like age.
I think you got that backwards. Age is objective, personhood is subjective.
You are a person, or you aren't.  That doesn't change.  Your age does.  That's why I used those terms.
That isn't what subjective or objective means though.
Fine.  The inflexible reality of personhood vs the fluctuating criteria of age or proximity to the womb.
Unique Human DNA is created at conception. That’s why conception is the moment when it becomes immoral to kill. It is not something that will become a person like an egg or sperm alone. It already is a person. Is it moral to kill someone in their sleep or while in a coma because they are not self aware? Self awareness is not a factor in personhood.
That’s not a relevant comparison. A more appropriate comparison would be, is it moral to kill somebody if they are using someone’s blood against their will.
Because killing a fetus is murder.
Let's compare abortion to voluntarily signing a DNR/Organ Donar card. DNR (Do Not Ressusitate Order) means I can't be given CPR/kept on life support if I flat-line (my heart stops). The reason: I don't want to be a vegetable AND I don't want someone else deciding what happens to me. Organ Donor Card - I will NEVER sign one of these things. First and foremost my health is such that I don't think my organs would be viable. Secondly, it's my personal choice in whether or not I have my body cut up and my organs salvaged. Personally I'd rather die "whole" and be cremated. I don't want to be disfigured and maimed. (Just how I view it) Abortion: You decide whether another human being lives or dies AND if they get their body mutilated. If you're the unborn baby, your chance at life is not in your hands and you don't choose how you die. Babies don't choose to exist. But women do choose to abort.
People aren't willing to hold the parents or the individuals accountable. Same people get upset over you proposing that the women who cause birth defects by using tobacco products, drinking alcohol, or doing drugs should be held accountable in court by their children.If a business can be held accountable for birth defects, why not the mother who drank excessively? It's alright to kill 4 of your children in your womb and we will never take your reproduction capabilities away even if it costs the life of a fifth or sixth child. It's so disgusting that people would rather watch these babies get killed than to be not politically incorrect. The same individuals who laugh about cutting the vocal cords of babies so they can't scream would froth blood over the idea of placing a restriction on reproduction. These same people are a problem for the gun community, instead of babies, it's disarmament when in the USA were there are over 100,000 uses of guns in self defence every year when 25,000 Mexicans were murdered last year, and 60,000 Brazilians were murdered in 2015. You want to fix the reservations and inner city communities? Unless you show that you've bettering yourself to end the cycle of suffering on a personal level, you shouldn't be able to reproduce. Get a job, start a career,  get married, and then only then you should be allowed to reproduce.   If individuals were willing to take personal responsibility, these vulnerable communities wouldn't even have a tenth of the problems that they face now. Today I read a case where the liberals are trying to make a victim out of somebody who shot two individuals after robbing & taking their possessions, and nearly raped somebody after carjacking & taking a female with him. Some places are paying young adults from Indian reservations 200,000 dollars to graduate high school when getting out of the reservation should be a big enough motivation to do so by itself. Latin Americans are just dying to enter the USA to better themselves & their families. I'm just sick of a minority that's within a minority that's like a 500lb weight that's hanging from the neck of these communities. I would like to cut off that weight so those communities would be as successful as Indian or Asian Americans are? The reason why those two groups are so successful is that they were raised to have personal responsibility, and to have a great work ethic and it shows. I don't want to travel in time 50 years into the future and see the same problems that currently affect the communities now to continue to take place, the reason is that because people don't have the spine to say something. Do you really want to travel 50 years into the futures and see all of the inner city violence continuing to exist,or see the murder of so many babies to continue to happen?
Abortion after casual sex is wrong because you're killing a child because you're a failure.

i always find it strange when pro-abortion people say that they are advocating for body autonomy yet they are killing another human being. killing someone is a violation of that persons body autonomy(which is a pretty big understatement)
I've also noticed that a lot of the time, pro-abortion people refer to themselves as "pro-choice" but are paradoxically anti-suicide, anti-illegal drug use, anti-weight loss and anti-a bunch of other controversial things that boil down to "my body, my choice" and actually are about the right to one's body and don't involve hurting or killing anyone else but themselves. Bodily autonomy really has nothing to do with it, as much as they throw it around. They only seem to care about control and coconvenience, not anyone's autonomy.
Pretty sure pro-choice people are advocating for the body autonomy of the mother.
Would it be ok if you removed the person from the womb? That way the women gets and the baby get to keep their bodily autonomy. Of course the baby dies outside the womb, but at least it had bodily autonomy.
That's a very bizarre argument. "I didn't kill him, Your Honor. It's not my fault he couldn't swim."
Actually, if someone is drowning and you choose not to go in the water, you don’t go to jail. That’s the law.
That depends on whether you threw him in the water in the first place.
Yea but he was using my organs against my will. Can I use your organs against your will if I need to survive?
Why do you need them to survive?
It doesn’t mater WHY you need something to survive. Why do you need water to survive, is it relevant? The point is, you need someone’s organs to survive. Using someone else’s organs to survive without permission should be and is illegal.
It actually does matter why you need my organs to survive. If I slipped poison into your drink that leads to your death by kidney failure, I'll be arrested for murder. On the other hand, if I donate a kidney to save your life, I'll get a lesser charge.
None of that made any sense. You won’t get a lesser charge for donating a kidney to me. You’ll still be charged for attempted manslaughter. There are no instances where it’s ok for one person to use the organs of another. Why is it ok in pregnancy?
That baby looks ready to kick some ass.
This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.
This race in 2018 could decide who will control the Wisconsin Supreme Court so we have to go ALL OUT to win it! Here's how YOU can help:Volunteer: We need people on the ground making sure voters turnout and you can help even if you're from another state (by travelling here or phone banking), more info here - https://www.judgescrenock.com/volunteer/Donating: At the moment the Democrat is leading in fundraising and has been given thousands by radical liberal organizations. Screnock needs YOUR help to bridge this gap and you can do so here - https://www.judgescrenock.com/donate/Keep informed: You can keep informed of the latest campaign news here - https://twitter.com/judgescrenockVoting: Perhaps the most important job of all! Make sure you get out to vote on April 3rd 2018! If you need to register to vote then see here (If you're not registered on the day then do NOT worry!, Wisconsin does same day registration!): https://vote.gov/Absentee: If you're serving in the military or aren't able to make it to election day for ANY reason see here for absentee ballots: https://www.fvap.gov/
If you can then PLEASE share this with ALL your Pro Life friends & family in Wisconsin! We CANNOT let Dallet win!

This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.
https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/comments/4xsg8k/cmv_safe_spaces_are_unhealthy_because_college
A women discovers she's 7 and a half months pregnant (a shocker!) and ends up choosing adoption. After talking with "an amazing counselor" at her "women's center" appointment "I discovered that there are families hoping right now for a miracle baby, I discovered that the state and agency will help me get in touch with them."Now she feels "the strength of womanhood behind me and I'm ready for this." She loves the baby so much, and she's humbled to be able to give such a gift to an amazing adoptive family. She cancelled her abortion consultation so she could talk with an ogbyn about prenatal care.All good news right? She seems happy. The baby will find a loving family. Nope!"women's care center" is raising a red flag for me. Was this an actual medical facility, or a Crisis Pregnancy Centre? The latter is notorious for giving women misleading information or outright lying with the sole goal of preventing them from having abortions.she also says the women’s care center is where she met “an amazing counselor” This is a very very big red flag to me. Especially in a more conservative state (implied as she said she may have to travel out of state for an abortion) there are no actual doctors at such types of centers, only “counselors” who do everything in their power to sway the patient away from considering abortion as an option. Agree that I would hate to think OP was mislead in this situation.
Not really even pro-choice, but anti-life.
Pro choice, but if you make the wrong choice you must have been mislead!
Funnily this can be applied to Hillary talking about why she lost. Apparently white women don't think for themselves.
By that definition, many pro-lifers are pro-choice.  They just have a different opinion on what the "wrong choice" is.
Nah, it does not fit their narrative, that's why they're upset.
Wow, they talk about it like  they found a roach that survived the exterminator.
This is a political issue for them.  They need to keep everyone on-message.  And that message is: "CPC's are all quacks who try and make you feel like crap for even thinking that you can make the empowering decision to take your life back and have an abortion!  They're also trying to convert you to a cult."
That's really accurate!
You know, I always like to believe that when the average "pro-choice"voter isn't a malicous person, and that they truly believe that a 2 month old fetus isn't a human being. How anybody, however, can look at a 7.5 month old fetus and think "There is nothing morally objectionable to killing this" is just unadulterated evil.
Mislead into what exactly? Are they saying it's not accurate that "there are families hoping right now for a miracle baby"?? No matter your opinion on the morality of abortion, there are thousands of couples every year who are so grateful their child's bio mom chose life, because otherwise they never would have had the opportunity to raise a child from birth. Adoption is truly a gift both to the child and to the adoptive family. There was no misleading here. Only a woman who made a selfless decision to help her baby and a desperate couple.
What exactly are they concerned about?  Even if being pregnant when you'd rather not be is that bad, she only had a month and a half to go.
That there was no doctor available in case she wanted to have an immediate abortion and that this was a pro-life center to prevent people from having abortions. If they don't have the choice for abortion, to them it must be a bad place.
They know abortion is sick and that their love for it is pathological, so they want as many people to abort as possible so that they can be comforted by the fact that everyone is equally sick and not have to wonder about themselves anymore
Pardon me, as I'm often called radical, but this is Molech worship.
It is. They sacrifice babies for prosperity (muh career!) and sex (muh body! muh freedoms!). They think they are on the horizon of a brand new dawning but they are the oldest cult in the book
I don't understand. They claim to be "pro-choice," right? So they should support her choice to carry her baby to term.
From this statement the op was concerned for the woman being coerced into making a decision she never wanted. She didn't attack her for the choice of adoption
The woman didn't sound at all like she made a decision she never wanted in that quote.  It sounds like she found support that she might not have felt she would have had. OP is focused on any hint that someone dissuaded her from having an abortion in an institution like a CPC. The thing is, if you're going to actually have a real choice, you should be able to look or take in information that allows you to change your course of action.  As long as that is not rammed down your throat, and you get the support advertised, I don't see an issue. Here, the assumption is that the woman got bamboozled, instead of perhaps receiving support, which simply casts doubt on the reasoning capabilities of the woman who went through the experience. They expect women to make a choice, but become instantly suspicious when it isn't the one they expect.

Honestly my biggest pet peeve is all the signs from the various gun rights protests saying something along the lines of "My uterus is more regulated than assault weapons" (pictures of people with those signs were featured as some of the "best" signs from the protest by some mainstream news orgs). Aside from the fact that's a useless comparison what state allows a 12 year old to buy an AR-15 without his/her parents permission?
47 of them.  Parking lot transfers are a very real thing.  Sellers may refuse to sell to a 12 year old but as we've seen with established gun sellers,  people in the business of selling guns have no quandary with the "who" any more than the "why"
Are you referring to private sales? If so that is definitely not the case (see here). Many states explictly prohibit private sellers from selling to minors, and those that don't require the minor to have parental permission, unless I missed something (correct me if I'm wrong).
Those laws are unenforcable and unenforced.  I could travel to Atlanta and buy an assault rifle in under 12 hours.  And I'm a foreign national with absolutely no right to bear arms or black market experience.  No one selling a gun at 2 am in a Walmart parking lot cares who theyre selling to or what they're going to do with it.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TCSpokckHC0 You know "A private seller needs to ask for ID first" is not effective regulation, stop misleading people by insinuating them that there is effective measures to prevent people from selling to a 12 year old.
Well my comment was referring to the law itself, not the enforcement. Parental consent laws on abortion are circumvented all the time, but that doesn't mean the laws don't exist.
A woman's constitutional right to have an abortion is circumvented by states all the time, that doesn't mean the ruling doesn't exist.  The same way and the same states frequently circumvent the 14th amendment with de facto prison slavery, race based prosecution, and voter disenfranchisement.
Yeah and other states circumvent the constitutional right to bear arms. Either way the point is that if you're going to argue that 12 year olds can buy guns in 47 states because of unenforced laws then I can say that 12 year olds can have abortions without parental knowledge in 50 states because of unenforced laws.
Hey, I hate to point out the obvious and make you look like a fool, but you're not the authority of what is and is not constitutional.  The authority on what is and is not constitutional is the Supreme Court of the United States of America. They are granted this authority by the constitution of the Republic of the United States of America.  They have ruled that most of the provisions of the New York SAFE act and most of similar legislation is, in fact, constitutional.  Your assertion that those laws are unconstitutional is blatant falsehood; if they were unconstitutional, they would be struck down, as has happened with numerous measures. They have also ruled that a woman has the right to choose, and that it is unconstitutional for states to deprive women of this right, or to deprive black people of the right to vote, or for the police to take a person's life without reasonable grounds, or to persecute people on religious grounds. You can claim that something is your divine right, or your inherent right, or your right as a sovereign citizen, but making claims that something is or is not constitutional can be proven or disproven by academic study.
The same court also ruled that parental consent laws on abortion are constitutional (see Planned Parenthood vs. Casey) yet you characterized this as "circumventing" a woman's right to abortion.
What would be an effective measure? Making it double illegal? Turns out laws only work if they're enforceable who knew?
I wish I could upvote this twice
Until gun owners start campaigning for government-funded legal murder, the comparison is laughable.
Philip Brailsford Keith Sandy Dominique Perez You don't need to campaign for something that already exists.
Top post
If these two sides could come together they might be unstoppable.
Because guns kill actual people. /s I hope people see that this goes both ways though.
Yup. Came here to say this. If you think this is rediculous but don't see it go the other way, you may need to examine your beliefs.
I'm glad someone sees it. The argument is that owning guns doesn't murder someone, but supporting gun ownership without sensible restriction is basically begging people to get shot.
I never liked the term “sensible restriction” or “common sense” gun control. Obviously everyone is for sensible, common sense gun control, but given that those terms are subjective, theres no real definition of what it is, and it’s insulting to use those terms when describing restrictions that not everyone agrees on.
Sensible restriction does mean something different to everyone, but it shouldn't. I think its sensible that an 18 year old with a history of violence shouldn't be able to buy an assault rifle. Most run-rights people don't agree.
I’m a gun rights person and I agree with that statement. Even dana loesch said there were enough red flags that he (Parkland shooter) shouldn’t have been able to get that gun
But he did, and so could anyone else.
Everyone agrees with "reasonable restrictions." The issue is there's massive disagreement about what restrictions are reasonable or not. The issue I see is gun-control advocates proposing what they see as solutions, people respond to them asking for evidence that it'll help or, better yet, showing them it doesn't help, and then instead of responding to the issue being raised, the gun-control advocate accuses them of not caring if children die.
The problem is that "commonsense gun control" is always defined as being "slightly more gun control than we currently have". As a result, there's a ratcheting effect where the current state of gun laws is always redefined as "zero" no matter how many restrictions we've passed already.
And no matter how ineffective they've been...
"The leeches aren't working? Clearly, the solution is more leeches!"
I see that too, but I think a good idea would be to look at different countries where gun control does work. America is unique in size and diversity of population, but I don't think it's outside the realm of possibility that taking tips from successful countries could work.
I think you can look at other countries where gun control works...and a lot of other things are very different. It kind of makes mapping their laws to this country more questionable.
That's true, and I'm willing to be shown im wrong if you wouldn't mind clarifying.
I mean tbh I'm not that interested in getting into an in depth debate/discussion on guns right now. But if I were, this isn't something I can comprehensively respond to you on (with all possible examples and why they wouldn't apply in the US); it would be more appropriate for someone (you) to propose a law so that specific proposal can be analyzed/responded to. I'm really not trying to bail. I have a big test tomorrow morning. Maybe we can pick it up later. In the meantime I'd highly recommend reading this post which probably covers a few things you may be thinking about.
Ok thanks
What would these countries be?
Abortions don't?
I feel like I need this to be addressed as recently I've noticed as I debate abortion, I keep hearing worse and worse justifications. This "justification" from pro-choicers comes up way too often and it just makes me wonder how evolution is going backwards.It's the justification that they should be allowed to get an abortion if they accidentally get pregnant.I'm 18, so I know well enough about how terrible sexual education is today. At least at my schools, they did a Sex Ed day, where basically they just dedicated an entire one day of school to get sex education "out of the way" (words that the teachers would say). The lack of education that schools do on contraception is absurd, they barely even touch the succession rates of birth control and people go out of school thinking that either birth control is 100% effective, or that if the birth control fails, they can just get an abortion (since schools actively ENCOURAGE abortion). I feel that this lack of education on the aforementioned topics has a lot to do with the fact that people seem to think that pregnancy is not a possibility or a very microscopic chance with protected sex.Having sex regardless is taking the risk that your partner will get pregnant, and by having consensual sex, you are signing a contract that says you are willing to take that risk. To be so irresponsible when your risk goes the wrong way and get an abortion is absurd. Saying that accidental pregnancy is grounds for abortion sets the idea that ignorance is a validation for murder. It's like if someone stuck a knife into someone's head because they didn't know death existed.
Overpopulation.
"There are too many people on the planet? Ok, sure. Which one is 'too many'? Point them out for me. Ok, now convince me why they're 'too many', but you're 'just right.'"
I just tell them they must have loved the Holocaust. Shuts them right up.
Here’s the top 3 I’ve heard: They will likely become criminals anyway so it’s better to just have an abortion. If it’s a life then are blowjobs cannibalism? A fetus isn’t alive.
I've heard this too but it doesn't make any sense to me. Have they really not heard of a "fetal monitor"? Pretty clear proof that the fetus is alive.
2) - it's not fertilised oh my God how bad at biology can you be
Hands down, the worst one is "if abortion is murder then every time a man ejaculates/woman menstruates they are committing murder." Seriously WTF. How do you reach adulthood and believe in such bovine manure...
Because they can't grasp the concept of part vs whole and anything that doesn't resemble a human can't possibly be a human. I always like to bring up the fact that no one aborts a 2-4 celled organism because no one knows they're pregnant that early. They don't seem to care and still insist on arguing that an early fetus is just 2 cells and that is basically the same thing as a sperm.
Yes, this one is the worst.
"Then then why don't we have a funeral for every period then? Huh? Huh? So yeah, so, looks like i got ya there!"
I'm not sure how well it fits, but there was a rash of Facebook posts a couple of years ago that were all "I'm glad my mom had that abortion, or I wouldn't be here." Like, damn, good thing your sibling didn't want to be here, huh?
That there are already too many children in foster care.
"If fertilization creates a human organism, then molar pregnancies, warts, skin cells,etc, are also human organisms"
I don't remember the exact quote but one time on Colbert he was talking with a person who made this argument and he said "so if i never take a shower and i wait long enough, eventually I'll have babies growing on my arms?"
lol
Great answer, I will use it next time. Ha ha.
I've literally seen it argued that because men have killed so many people throughout history, for women to be equal to men, they have to be allowed to kill just as many people.

Um what?
Probably means prochoicers who say "Prolifers have killed abortionists, so they aren't actually against murder."
They're trolling.  Or not particularly bright.  Possibly both. Their argument, if you can call it that, is that since some abortionists have been killed by "pro-lifers", clearly we all want to kill abortionists. Or something.
“If something can’t communicate or make choices for itself, then you can make choices for it.”
Time to kill a newborn!
The latest one I heard was that since we treat younger people differently (like you know they can't have a license) then it makes sense that they (human fetuses/preborn children) shouldn't get the right to life, because you know they are younger. This was the absolute crappiest argument I have ever encountered.
Not really a justification as much as it is an ad hominem argument, but the tried and true "you're not really pro-life, you're just anti-choice! You don't support life unless it's a fetus!" Like, Karen, sit down. You support locking up and forefully drugging the allegedly mentally ill, you think that adults should be legally required to wear seatbelts and not allowed to make the choice—however reckless—not to use them, and you're staunchly against suicide and even not-fatal self injury. By that logic, "pro-choicers" aren't really "pro-choice," they're just anti-birth. That and "if abortion is murder then so is male masturbation." A sperm cell on its own does not grow into a baby. If you leave it be for nine months, nothing will happen to it. It will still be a single sperm cell and not a human being. The same cannot be said for a fetus; it will grow into a human being if given the chance.

Aren't we always saying this?

RIP Zell. He also helped establish a scholarship program in Georgia so that all children, regardless of family income, could attend college.
Rest in peace As a democrat I wish there were more pro life democats
page for the 1 in 3 democrats who are pro life
Rest in peace. I'm thankful that he could see past his party and politics and turn against abortion.
I personally think it's okay in the case of Rape, Incest or of the Mother's life can be in Jeopardy but if it isn't any one of those reasons I feel like its wong
No, it's not ok. If abortion is actually murder, and unborn babies actually have the right to life, how can their father's crime justify executing the child? Would it be right for a mother to kill her two year old conceived by rape/incest? For the mother's life: it is justified to provide life saving treatment even if this endangers the child, since the mother's death guarantees the child's death. We should do everything possible to save both lives.
The vast majority of pro-lifers favor exceptions, most notably in cases of actual threat to the mother's life, and also in rape. I think if your reasoning is consistent, that's a great start. Others will say it's wrong to hold exceptions even if you are consistent in your reasoning -- I disagree. I think the best case made for the rape exception is one of the links on our sidebar here: "Misconceptions about the rape exception"
thank you this offered some really valeable insight to this whole debate I really appracate that
It's OK if you can justify the exceptions.
What I don't get is when you say incest. Incest is consensual in this case, since you differentiated it from rape, right? I assume it's because if you're conceived incestuously you'll have birth defects. Was that your line of thinking? Well for 1st cousins and beyond, the effects are not very noticeable and sometimes nonexistent. So why is murdering the baby okay in that circumstance? And would you be okay with abortion if the baby was conceived by two unrelated parents but was mentally retarded?
I'm talking about extremely close family i.e Bro/ Sis Mother/son that type of thing, other than that I honestly don't think it's okay
Why should they be fucking their bro/sis/mom/dad? And why should the baby be punished if they do?
some people are into that as you mentioned the birth defects
That's no excuse. Incest is immoral and illegal. So eugenics? Kill the weak?
So why should they be allowed to get an abortion when they have CONSENTED to have sex?
The whole "birth defects from inbreeding" thing is way overblown. It's not "fuck your cousin and the kid comes out missing the left half of his face"; it's more like "fuck your sister and the kid's chances of sickle-cell disease go from 1 in a million to 1.5 in a million".
Not really. Just like statutory rape incest tends to have the problem of either grooming or they're an authority figure.
It's completely normal to have exceptions. For example, I can't resolve my pro-life views with the idea that a 9-year old could get raped and pregnant, because I don't think that's safe and shouldn't happen. I don't believe in a total rape exception though. I haven't decided where that line is. My idea is that make abortion illegal, and then look at it on a case-by-case basis, same as regular murder. That way we eliminate 99% of abortions. The way I explain being against the rape exception is kinda like this: I believed rape is bad because it's an act of violence against an innocent human. I believe abortion is bad for the same reason. I don't think it's ok to frame exceptions under "life of the mother" because that's taken to mean too many things. We need to make people understand that ending a pregnancy through birth resolves pregnancy related complications, even if birth is earlier than anticipated, and even if it's too early for the baby to make it. It's never necessary to intentionally kill a baby to save their mothers life. Once we start legitimizing the phrase "life of the mother" we've already lost. There can be no exception because this isn't an abortion argument. Emergency birth will always be permissible if a woman is dying.
I tend to agree that the idea of a 9 year old getting pregnant might be more of a life or death situation for the girl in that case. Although I will note that a 5 year old has gotten pregnant and had the child.  And it was the product of incest.  And the child turned out all right as far as I am aware. Even though it would be hard to deal with the fact that your real mom is only five years older than you, and of course, the incest thing too, my guess is that the child would still rather be alive. But it is important to bear in mind that some pregnancies can be extremely dangerous to the mother, and in that case, the equality of the mother's right to life with the child's means that a choice is necessary and defensible, if still heartbreaking.
That definitely sounds more like a "life of the mother" exception than a rape exception.
Then you're thinking of pregnancy/children as a punishment. Basically, You only think a woman should be stuck with a baby if she is at some sort of personal fault. That's not what being prolife is about. It's about babies being living human beings.
thanks for putting it this way, I never even thought of that before
Well said! It might sound harsh to say "no exceptions," but when you approach it from the perspective you state, it makes sense. All unborn babies are worthy of life regardless of how conception occurred. All unborn babies deserve birth at the end of their gestation, whether it happens at month 9 or earlier (eg, save mom's life), not poisoning or dismemberment.
Of course, but like the top comment says, you need to be able to justify your exceptions. There have been numerous cases of murder where the victim was deemed not guilty because of certain circumstances that happened.
As a policy matter, generally I would say yes. From a moral standpoint, less so, but I definitely understand where you're coming from. Some pregnancies arise out of horrible circumstances such as rape or incest, but at the end of the day it's a human life, and shouldn't be taken unless absolutely necessary. If there were an opportunity to compromise with pro-choicers, wherein there are exceptions for rape and incest (as well as life of the mother) in "exchange" for stopping the more common elective abortions, it's still not perfect or ideal, but at the end of the day there would be a lot less homicides taking place and that's a success in my book.
My rule of thumb for "small exceptions" is whether or not such an exception would need to be an addendum to any personhood amendment that may be passed. If your ideal abortion law is "All human beings are persons with an inherent right to live, except for unborn humans who X, Y, Z, ...", then you really need to reconsider what it is that actually motivates you to oppose abortion, because it isn't the rights of the unborn. On the other hand, if your ideal law is "All humans have an inherent right to live, no exceptions!" but there are some extenuating circumstances that would apply to post-natal homicide as well, such as killing someone to save your own life, then that's just being consistent.
I agree with you, except in the case of incest.  I wrote a long post on another sub explaining my position if you're interested.
Thanks for offering your insight after reading a few of your arguments I’m really glad I’ve got to hear your side of things I’m not too sure how this will affect my views but I’ve gotten some great insight

Generally speaking, Republicans have done far more to push the pro-life movement than Democrats, but they still have a long way to go.
Yes, and as a Pro-life Republican, I am not taken in by Republicans who I feel are not sufficiently sincere about it.  There are times I feel like I have to hold my nose while voting for some of them.  The only consolation is that the other choice on the ballot smells even worse. Still, if there was a pro-life Democrat and a wishy-washy Republican, that Democrat would have a serious chance at getting my vote. Not guaranteed, of course, because having a D empowers the rest of the Democratic party apparatus, which openly supports taxpayer funded abortions.  I am also in disagreement with the Democratic views on certain other matters as well. But I do feel like perhaps we should make an effort to make a mark on the Democratic party.  The best place to start is at the grassroots so that when there is a pro-life candidate in their primaries, it comes from a movement below, and not just a random principled candidate here and there who can occasionally buck the Democratic party apparatus.
Unfortunately, promoting abortion is a priority for virtually all Democrat leaders and has officially been part of the party's platform for decades.
And yet it is solely Republican governors and legislators who have led the movement against abortion in the states. Democrats have remained staunchly pro abortion, even if their own voters think the Democrat stance is extremist (which it is).

Republican Legislatures have put hundreds of restrictions on abortion.
That doesn't mean every Republican politician has contributed, as they should.
Well obviously not. We have Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowski (sadly) who are both pro abortion. But the Republican party has still been the only one who has gone against Planned Parenthood.
I think we all know that. The whole point is that we shouldn't be fooled by "oh this guy's in the Republican party therefore he's doing what he can to stop abortion." So continually bringing up that the Republican party does more to stop abortion than the Dems is just pushing that narrative even more. We should be able to acknowledge that some Republicans don't do their job without having to bring up the totally unhelpful Dems every single time, right?
You could eliminate most abortion by having innercity women go through some form of long-term birth control such as getting their tubes tied. Can't have an abortion if they can't get pregnant. Then once they become married they would then reverse what they did in order to become pregnant. Society is going to have to decide if the rights of the mother trump the child's. I have had many people become outraged over me suggesting that children who have birth defects because of a selfish mother should be allowed to sue the mother for compensation.

Fake but it’s what happens
What’s fake
The sign, that message wasn't actually on the sign.
The NRA doesn't kill people though
And if they did, they would not be receiving subsidies to do so.
Heck, even if they were getting funded(and continued to run their business like they do minus private funds/donations), they would go be shut down in a few seconds. Everyone goes nuts when gun organizations have any kind of support.

It's not really tearing down the march. It's pointing out that if you claim to care about life, then you should be consistent. And abortion advocates don't care about millions of lives that are taken away every year. I don't think they're bad people, because some just don't think that unborn are people, which comes from a place of ignorance. Certainly it's possible that all lives are not equal, and none of us know for sure the value of human life. But it's irresponsible to draw arbitrary lines in the sand as to which human lives deserve the title of personhood.
If it's about disarming the population, then, no, it's not what I would call legitimate.  It's short sighted and reactionary.
But what about the people who want to be disarmed? Do they not have legitimate opinions on this? Do they have less of a voice than you do? They are also American and have just as much of a right to try and shape their country as much as you do. I'm prolife and im also pro gun control. I don't think we should take away someones right to guns, i'm not a repeal the 2nd type person, but I also think we don't need civilians owning certain types of guns, I don't think it should be that easy to get them, and I don't think we should be obsessing over them as much as Americans do. Its not short-sighted. Its a group of people who are sick of being at risk of dying from preventable violence.
They can choose not to have arms. No, forced disarmament is illegal and therefor not 'legitimate'. They can say whatever nonsense they want. And the policies they advocate are absolutely, undeniable, objectively reactionary; they'll say so themselves.
No ones stopping those people from disarming themselves.


The only time I would have an issue like this is if they denied the creation of a similar resource for the pro-life movement.

W a thumbnail like that, this post becomes a pro-choice post.
Not for me. That's terrible
What?

When I first saw this article from nationalreview.com, its title was: Here are some other articles about this story: Fox News: Backlash after Planned Parenthood branch tweets: 'We need a Disney princess who's had an abortion' indiewire.com: Planned Parenthood | IndieWire Snopes: Did Planned Parenthood Say There Should Be a Disney Princess Who Had an Abortion? USA Today: Planned Parenthood called for Disney princess 'who's had an abortion' thewrap.com: 'We Need a Disney Princess Who's Had an Abortion' freebeacon.com: 'We Need a Disney Princess Who's Had an Abortion' perezhilton.com: Disney News and Photos | Perez Hilton Fox News: Todd Starnes: Imagine the plot of Disney's next Broadway blockbuster if Planned Parenthood had its way BBC: Planned Parenthood tweet calls for abortion Disney princess International Business Times: Planned Parenthood Affiliate Calls For Disney Princess Abortion, Faces Backlash Washington Post: Planned Parenthood deletes tweet calling for Disney abortion thedailybeast.com: Planned Parenthood Removes Tweet Calling for ‘Disney Princess Who’s Had an Abortion’ kitv.com: Planned Parenthood deletes tweet calling for Disney princess 'wh - Honolulu, Hawaii news, sports & weather nbcdfw.com: Pennsylvania Planned Parenthood: 'We Need a Disney Princess Who's Had an Abortion' philadelphia.cbslocal.com: Planned Parenthood Deletes 'We Need A Disney Princess Who's Had An Abortion' Tweet washingtontimes.com: Planned Parenthood affiliate hits new low with tweet at Disney crowd marketwatch.com: Planned Parenthood affiliate’s deleted tweet advocates ‘pro-choice’ Disney princess who’s had an abortion Daily Mail: Tweet by Planned Parenthood branch sparks a backlash wreg.com: Planned Parenthood deletes tweet calling for Disney abortion mcall.com: Planned Parenthood Keystone deletes tweet calling for Disney abortion I am a bot trying to encourage a balanced news diet. These are all of the articles I think are about this story. I do not select or sort articles based on any opinions or perceived biases, and neither I nor my creator advocate for or against any of these sources or articles. It is your responsibility to determine what is factually correct.


How do you know the sex at 8 1/2 weeks?
The mother only found out she was pregnant at 8-1/2 weeks but decided to abort their child after the 19th week. It was after the abortion that she told him the child's sex.

Better yet, a Disney Princess who sells aborted fetal tissue to raise money to build a social justice library!
what good fiction that makes
I've got tissue and stem cells aplenty I've got livers and kidneys galore You want fetal hearts? I've got twenty! But who cares? No big deal I want more!
I shouldn't be laughing. But this was great. Thank you.
Sex in children's movies is always a great thing
/s
Oh, fuck off and leave the children alone! So inappropriate.
How about a fictional character in SOMETHING that thinks abortion is wrong and isn’t made out to be an asshole/moron?
Lol sure
That would be a really deep plot for a Disney princess movie.

No need to bring unions in to the Abortion issue.  If you have a kid, it's pretty nice to have a 40 hour work week, Holidays off and some health insurance to actually have the kid.
Uh...I was replying to the person above who included unions, so I just tried to figure out how they'd integrate that into a coherent story. Relax.
That would be a transman.

The term "transman" refers to someone transitioning from female to male. That's just the definition of the word.
Interesting, I never knew.
To inspire young girls to murder their children when inconvenient for them, too? I don't think so. I wouldn't put it past Disney these days, though.
They could call her Chlamydia Rue.
Last time I checked, the kissing scene was too much for children they're appealing to.
u/apoemforyoursprog needs to ridicule this woman.
They can go to Elsa and Spiderman for source material


Is it to ok to "abort" people who have congenital insensitivity to pain? As for consciousness, remind them that it's wrong to kill someone even when they're sleeping or knocked unconscious.
I mentioned these points (i made the analogy of someone in a coma not being able to feel pain or be conscious) but then they totally changed the debate, going to the whole "they're better of dead if they won't have a happy life" argument.. So they're a lost cause really.
They moved the goalposts, a logical fallacy, which usually shows they don't have a good argument. Ask them if a potential bad life is enough to abort and unborn child, is the same thing ok for an infant?
They didn't have a good argument. I actually mentioned the same thing to them, and if actually opened the eyes of one of my friends, but he said he'd have to think about it. At the end if the day they're my friends and I don't wanna get too political haha
That's actually excellent that you got them to even think about it. That's always a great place to start and from there you can answer their questions and help nudge them along.
I agree man, just hearing that they understand your side of the argument is a big step from the majority of pro-choicers just ignoring other views
Definitely. Keep up the good work!
“I don’t need a 2000 year old book to tell me how to be moral” And yet this is inevitably the result. Like, unironically, that’s some Hitler level shit. The whole eugenics and murdering anyone who’s not fit in your modeled society? I don’t think the comparison is off at all.
Well, I'm an atheist and I don't believe in objective morality per say, but yeah it's Hitler level shit completely. It's disgusting quite frankly
Mr Moral Authority u/banoffiemango thinks so.
Oh. Interesting set of moral beliefs. I'm glad they're wrong though.
As am I.
Wrong gender. And of course it's ok.
I'm still waiting for your explanation on why.
When this argument is used, the underlying belief is usually that the ability to feel pain is what makes a human a person with moral worth. It is implicit. But sometimes asking the question, "Are you asking me this because you believe that the ability to feel pain is the hallmark of a human with personhood?" If they asnwer yes, then you can ask them, as people have already stated, if it is ok to kill a human who cannot feel pain due to a genetic disorder, brain damage, nerve damage, burbs, etc.; Someone who is drugged, high, or drunk past feeling; someone who is knocked unconscious or in a coma. If you lead with that clarifying question before making those examples, it's harder for them to wiggle out of that discussion and move the goalposts, because you have made them state a fundamental belief they hold and are addressing it. Not that they can't do that anyways, but you're making it more difficult. Then you can get into the root view that they are projecting their questions and statements from: a set of criteria that determines personhood. Because that is what a lot of it boils down to: "yeah, the zygote/embryo/fetus is human, but it's not a human being because of xyz and therefore does not have rights of other human beings." The more you can dig into the root of their view, the more specific your discussion and points can be.
Human rights are not dependent on one's consciousness, ability to feel pain, or anything else. They are inherent and equal for all people. Good examples from /u/Pax_et_Bonum.
Can i kill a drunk who has had so much he can't feel the floor when he falls down? Can i punch you in the mouth after you walk out of the dentist and can't feel your face?
I would argue that someones ability to feel pain in no way determines their humanity or worth.
Would that make it okay to kill the baby after that point if the baby is anesthetized first?

30 pieces of silver
Using false Christians to promote genocide has always been part of Planned Parenthood's playbook: "We should hire three or four colored ministers, preferably with social-service backgrounds, and with engaging personalities. The most successful educational approach to the Negro is through a religious appeal. We don’t want the word to go out that we want to exterminate the Negro population. And the minister is the man who can straighten out that idea if it ever occurs to any of their more rebellious members." - Margret Sanger
This is what I thought of. If planned parenthood can show that there are christians who support abortions, it makes the christians who don't support it look like they're ignorant or stupid, and would bring people over who would otherwise be opposed. It's a good tactic on their part, and irresponsible on the religious leaders part. I think it's disgusting either way and I'm not even religious.
That's a chilling quote. The infiltration of the church is not just a conspiracy theory.
I’m not really sure they are real believers of Christ, just “religious leaders” two separate things.
I'd be very confused if the rabbis were real believers of Christ!
Disgusting. I pray God has mercy on these people, because I find it very difficult to do so.
"If anyone causes one of these little ones - those who believe in me - to stumble, it would be better for them if a large millstone were hung around their neck and they were thrown into the sea."
That’s... surprising.  It’s one thing to be kind to a woman who just had an abortion - chances are that’s not the only thing messed up in her life - but to actually say abortion should be legal is not something I’d expect religious leaders to say. Besides Catholics, do other Christians denominations prohibit abortion?
Eastern Orthodoxy takes a strong stance against Abortion. But because of how poor those countries are and very liberal abortion laws after Stalin's death (Khrushchev legalized it in the USSR and in 1965 70% of pregnancies ended in abortion) the majority of Eastern European women have had multiple abortions (some as many as 8 or 10).
A lot of western Religious institutes have been converged, surrendering a great deal of their core values in hopes of gaining more followers. The consequence has been, typically, a loss of membership. To answer your question then, you'll find a lack of consistency from one group of the same denomination to the next, let alone different ones.
Not terribly surprising.  There are a lot of churches out there that I'd barely consider religions, let alone Christian.  I have no beef with the UU folks, for instance, but I often wonder just what their core values actually are, other than progressivism.
Well I guess blood is on their hands.
Amazing how many of the "Faith Leaders" are women.  42 by name count.
I wish we had a little less of this sort of post in this subreddit.  These inevitably turn into a bashing of the flaws of theologically liberal Christianity.  It may be deserved criticism, but I think we'd be better off keeping it to our respective subreddits  instead of spilling it over here
Um...the article said many faiths including Methodists, Lutheran, Episcopalians and Jews. Messianic Jews believe in Christ as well.
Hi guys, I'm creating a small site for a school project about the pro life movment and their/your/our convictions. Is there a site, book or any other sort of literature that you found to explain all the view points of the pro life movment, and not just the religious? Social? Economical? Everything helps. I'm not a native English speaker so you will have to excuse any mistakes in my grammar.
Here, here, and here.
Great share. Thank you.
Equal rights Institute has a lot of good resources on pro-life positions and arguments.
Thanks I'll check it out...
This senate race in 2018 could decide who will control the Senate so we have to go ALL OUT to win it! Here's how YOU can help:Volunteer: We need people on the ground making sure voters turnout and you can help even if you're from another state (by travelling here or phone banking), more info here - https://joshhawley.com/get-involved/Donating: At the moment the Democrat is leading in fundraising and has been given hundreds of thousands by radical pro abortion organizations. Kevin needs YOUR help to bridge this gap and you can do so here - https://give.victorypassport.com/hawley/donate-today/Keep informed: You can keep informed of the latest campaign news here - https://twitter.com/hawleymoVoting: Perhaps the most important job of all! Make sure you get out to vote on November 6th 2018! If you need to register to vote then see here: https://vote.gov/Absentee: If you're serving in the military or aren't able to make it to election day for ANY reason see here for absentee ballots: https://www.fvap.gov/
Josh Hawley? Why not Austin Petersen instead?
Because he's not pro life (in policy), not conservative at all, has little support in Missouri (around 80% of his money comes from out of state) and will almost certainly lose (an atheist who calls Trump supporters fascists isn't going to win in Missouri). That's why. Also Josh Hawley is a great candidate who has a pro life record and has strong grassroots support in the state (only candidate to have the majority of money come from Missourians).
I will be voting for Austin Petersen in the Primary and General. Do you have any documents that support your 80% out of state donor claim? I have met Austin 3 times, and have talked to him on the phone for about 20 mins two times about my biggest policy concerns so i know some of your information is incorrect. Austin supports defunding Planned Parenthood. Austin is agnostic and supports religious freedom 100% and believes churches should be at the center of communities and not government. The only people Austin calls fascist are ones who support taxing us into poverty or infringing on our constitutional rights. Austin has the strongest grassroots campaign, has been to every lincoln days event (except the day 2 happened in different cities) and Hawley has been absent from all of them. Hawleys money comes from Bannon and McConnell, the latter who told him to break his campaign promise to not abandon his elected position to climb the political ladder.
https://www.opensecrets.org/races/geography?cycle=2018&id=MOS2 77.6% of Austin's donations come from outside Missouri (compared to just 35% of Hawley's). Even McCaskill has raised more money in state than him. and opposes any other regulations against abortion: https://thebuckleyclub.com/why-are-people-getting-conned-by-austin-petersen-2d8599c2c215 He's said that trump voters are: Devoid of any intelligence - https://twitter.com/AP4Liberty/status/805885311259701249 Scared of Women - https://twitter.com/AP4Liberty/status/787707721269153792 Ignorant and hateful - https://twitter.com/AP4Liberty/status/787098963107319808 Blind sheep - https://twitter.com/AP4Liberty/status/787097815218610176 His twitter before he wanted honest Missourians to vote for him reads like the most deranged #Resistance activists, it's funny how that all changed when he wanted to run for office. Only 35% of Hawley's money is from out of state. Unless they suddenly moved, they don't seem to be the ones paying for Hawley's campaign.
You take each of those tweets out of context to suit your narrative. He puts principals before party. Hawley is a rich, out of touch politician hosting $50,000 a plate fundraisers. He has ran for AG on platform of demeaning politicians who “climb the political ladder” and neglect their elected job duties - he’s literally doing the thing he ran against a year ago. Hawley is the swamp. Hawley will not beat Claire. Petersen has a much better chance.
Hawley would like Reddit. The way the comments indent with each reply look a lot like a step ladder, something he's pretty familiar with.
How the hell can I take "there might be signs of intelligent life devoid in Trump supporters." out of context. There is NO context in which you can honestly justify that. It'd be like if some called Maxine Waters a stupid ni--ger b-tch and then said it was taken out of context. His principals that tell him Trump voters are stupid and Hillary is the better option. Yeah those sound great. A guy who supports open borders, mocks Trump supporters (57% of Missourians) and has to get most of his money from outside of the state has a better chance? I don't believe that for a second.
As a Missourian, I haven't met a single person who actually likes Josh Hawley. Petersen has the bulk of the grassroots support (Monetti has some). The people supporting Hawley either think he's the only candidate, or are part of the dying breed of people who like McConnell. Petersen is absolutely pro-life, he does not take the Libertarian Party position on that issue. He believes that the child's right to life is more important than the woman's choice. He was hostile to Trump in 2016 because he was running against him for President. The 16 other Republicans running were also very critical of Trump, if you recall. If you listen to the things Petersen has said recently, he agrees with Trump on many issues and disagrees on some. He looks at the President very objectively as an independent thinker, not through the lense of partisan bias.
Austin Petersen > Josh Hawley Hawley is painfully artificial in his marketing, talking points, and political "strategy."  We need LESS politicians like him in DC, not more. Petersen is blunt, consistent, and, most importantly, a true Constitutional Republican.  We need MORE statesmen like him in DC.
I'd rather Josh Hawley who actually has a pro life record instead of Austin Petersen who opposes all regulations on abortion and who spits venom at the 57% of Missouri who voted Trump.
So you'd rather have a stock garbage GOP politician simply because you hope he will ignore the intended limitations of Federal government to accomplish your personal agenda?  This is a good story, I love the way these play out.  Get ready for heartbreak, buddy.
I want an ACTUAL pro life represenatative. Not "I don't like it but i'm not going to do anything to stop it". This is a PRO LIFE subreddit, not a FISCAL conservative one (because he is certainly not socially conservative).
You do know that murder, in general, is not a federal crime, right?  It's a STATE ISSUE.  So drop your whiny crap about someone not being a pro-life candidate because they won't warp Federal law to accommodate an agenda that should be handled LOCALLY.
No, Hawley just spits venom at 100% of the people who voted him in as AG because there’s a shinier job available.
Petersen called Trump voters "devoid of intelligence" and that the only reason they oppose Hillary is because they're "scared of a woman" https://twitter.com/AP4Liberty/status/787098963107319808 https://twitter.com/AP4Liberty/status/787707721269153792 (here it is from the horses mouth).
What happened to Trump supporters liking politicians that speak their mind and don't hold back?  I'm sure you've bad-mouthed plenty of folks.  I'm sure Hawley has as well, he just does it in secret so none of his voters can hear him.
I'm not that kind of Trump supporter. I only voted Trump because he seemed to address what I wanted addressed (Mike Pence being on the ticket helped a lot to reassure me) and also he's not Hillary. I've never bad mouthed 1,594,511 people and then expect those people to just shut up and get behind me.
And Trump said he liked grabbing women by the pussy, but got elected president. Your point?
You dont need to regulate it if you defund it.
Yes you do. Do you think abortion will end if you just defund PP? They will still operate, just with less money (which is why abortions need to be regulated strictly).
Youre starting to waver from conservatism with that stance. Creating a huge government regulatory system inherently grows the cost and size of government, both things conservatives oppose. If you want to end abortion you defund PP federally, elevate state politicians that support defunding PP on the state level and begin working on an environment that doesnt need PP. Eliminate the underlying causes of that demand. We dont need more tax hiking neoconservatism.
I am only socially conservative. I don't vote on economic issues (otherwise I just wouldn't vote because neither party is good on them if you ask me). Most (red) states already have strong regulations on abortion, we just need to roll them out on a federal level.
Thats what neocon implies. Republicans are supposed to be conservative and attempt to shrink the size and cost of government. Creating a nanny state (increasing regulations, size and cost of govt) will be a hard sell to traditional republicans.
Just about every Republican state has passed such regulations. They seem to be fine with it. Libertarianism does not equal Conservatism.
Im not talking about libertarianism. Traditional Republicans are Conservatives. NeoConservative Republicans waver and dont mind socialism as long as it favors their agenda.
Winning Missouri in 2018 is EXTREMELY important for advancing the Pro Life cause. Without this Seat in the Senate we will not be able to: Confirm Pro Life Judges Defund Planned Parenthood Pass any restrictions whatsoever on abortion.
You should look into Austin Petersen. He’s a pro life constitutional conservative that won’t shirk his job responsibilities as soon as something better comes along.
I have. His record is awful (he supports defunding PP but seems to oppose every other pro life law) and he seems like the only guy that McCaskil can really beat (supporting open borders, insulting trump supporters and being an atheist is an awful platform in Missouri).
You realize being agnostic and being an atheist are different, right? And if not towing the party line on a enormous, fiscally irresponsible, FDR-era public works project makes him less desirable to you I am truly sorry.
I don't think that Drumpistani understands unless you use repetitive and needless quoted text from the post directly above...
He's not a conservative in anyway. He's a conman who follows the Joe Biden "I don't like abortion but the government shouldn't be involved" position. Which is not pro life in any way: https://thebuckleyclub.com/why-are-people-getting-conned-by-austin-petersen-2d8599c2c215
With all due respect, I’m not sure you have any idea what you’re talking about. He’s against misusing tax dollars - which is the very foundation of conservatism.
I feel like they're never going to defund PP...
We need 60 Pro Life votes in the Senate (we're currently on 49) in order to defund PP. If we lose Missouri then there is 0 chance of us getting the votes we need.
Sadly, they would not defund PP even if they could.  You can't keep fundraising on defunding PP once you actually do it.  Kinda like /u/of_skies_and_seas said above, its used as a tool and not an actual issue to be taken on legislatively
They already are trying. Several states have passed laws to defund Planned Parenthood, ALL of which are Republicans. It is the Democrats who stand in the way of Pro Life laws. Every. Single. Time.
You are confused.  We are talking about Federal money and the Senate.  Most of the public funds come from Congress, not the states.  Also, it pretty naive to trust the same people that stood up at the March for Life in January saying they want to defund PP, who then just now vote for a budget that does the opposite. If you just say you are going to defund PP but then don't, you still get to get a huge amount of $$ fundraising off of it and then you keep the pro-chiocer's attack ads at bay. By no means am I saying that the Dem should get your vote.  I'm saying, don't be naive about the subject.  its a fundraising tool and a huge one at that
You need 60 votes to defund PP. And there are just 49 Pro lifers in Senate (all Republicans minus Murkowski and Collins), unless we win big in 2018 then we can't defund.
I know what I wrote.  There is no need to quote when it is directly above. They can vote to change the rules of the Senate.  It can be done and it has been done before.  They just won't.  Where have you been?  This option has been on the table for a while... Half the country identifies and pro-life.  That's more than enough political capital to get it done.
Because I addressed that specific section...
Yes, that is quite clear.  However, thats already understood because you are replying to the post.  However, it is nice to see that you will differentiate that you are just countering a portion of a post, while leaving other parts that you can't refute.  Most people try to hide that, but you run with it.  Let me guess, you are a high school or college student?

Perfidious politicians take advantage of the hearts of prolife people and the lives of unborn babies; they use the abortion issue as an easy path to power rather than use their power to end abortion.
This senate race in 2018 could decide who will control the Senate so we have to go ALL OUT to win it! Here's how YOU can help:Volunteer: We need people on the ground making sure voters turnout and you can help even if you're from another state (by travelling here or phone banking), more info here -https://www.mattformontana.com/volunteerDonating: At the moment the Democrat is leading in fundraising and has been given hundreds of thousands by radical pro abortion organizations. Rosendale needs YOUR help to bridge this gap and you can do so here - https://www.mattformontana.com/donateKeep informed: You can keep informed of the latest campaign news here - https://twitter.com/MattForMontana/Voting: Perhaps the most important job of all! Make sure you get out to vote on November 6th 2018! If you need to register to vote then see here: https://vote.gov/Absentee: If you're serving in the military or aren't able to make it to election day for ANY reason see here for absentee ballots: https://www.fvap.gov/

I hate the fact that it seems the school district has certain topics that off limit for teachers to discuss.

Fantastic.
It's very heart warming to hear a politician defending life at conception.
Its amazing what you can do when you stand on the Word of God as the basis for your laws and argumentation.
Absolutely. Ron Hood for president pls.

It doesn't exist to be a balanced platform. That being said, pro-life advocates can and should engage when possible with social media.
This isn't just with regard to pro-life but many more conservative social and political issues. The people who are most vocal and most active on social media tend to be more liberal or left leaning. There are likely 100's if not 1000's of reasons why but one of the top factors has to be do to our lifestyle choices. People with families, jobs or otherwise very active lives do not spend a ton of time advocating anything online. A mammal begins development at conception, the instance the egg becomes fertilized by spermatozoa. This is empirical fact but instead the argument isn't about facts at all. It seems far more important to address the inconvenience the developing organism places on it's host. OR the .1% exceptions where violence or rape is a factor in conception. People don't care about fact or truth, they want to justify killing their children because otherwise that means confronting the reality of what they've done. That is the last thing they want and are fighting with such fervor to protect themselves from the truth they likely are already fully aware of.

I don't get the point of passing a bill if a single pro-abortion judge can nullify it. Can someone explain this for me?
If enough states pass similar laws it goes to the circuit courts, and eventually up to SCOTUS. There's always a chance in the tedious process that one of the laws will stick and innocent lives can be saved.
But it was a district judge who blocked it, not SCOTUS? Why does a single persons view on abortion trump the process to took for the bill to be successfully passed? I feel like the power to block legislation should require more than a single persons opinion. I'm not really sure how that works though.
Judicial activism is a major problem. However, it can continued to be appealed through the court system up to the highest court. Structure of the Court System: Crash Course Government and Politics #19
It's a temporary block, the states attorney can, and usually do, appeal this to the next higher court. Also, it's not based on a single persons view on abortion, but on that single persons understanding of the case law in this country. The Judge is basically saying that this law is very similar to laws that higher courts in the country have found to not be constitutional. Until SCOTUS makes significant change to how they interpret the constitutions implications for abortion, or until there is an amendment, these laws will continue to be blocked by the courts.
Oh okay thank you, that makes sense.
Even if SCOTUS reverses the ruling, a district judge can just block the ban again and the process starts over. Shouldn't happen but it kinda did with the travel ban.
That is not correct. If SCOTUS were to reverse this ruling the lower court judge would not be able to ban it again. He wouldn't even have a opportunity or mechanism to do so. Most court rulings, especially lower courts, are based on president already set by other, higher, courts. If a judge were actually to rule the other way on this it would be judicial activism, as previous, higher courts, have already ruled this way on very similar cases.
The courts unfortunately embrace judicial activism in this country. They do this all the time to high court rulings they don't like. Think about what they've done to gun rights despite the Heller decision.
The robe-and-gavel class in this country is out of control. Elected representatives and all the legislation that they enact on behalf of the people are at the whim of a single judge's signature. They have far too much power and it's throwing our system of checks and balances to the side.
This IS our system of checks and balances. If a state or the federal government passes a law (not a constitutional amendment, just a plain old law, or regulation) it's the courts job to see if this new law jibes with the constitution, as it's the bedrock of law in this country. If the law conflicts with one of our founding principles, it's tossed out. If a majority of the people really want a law that conflicts with the constitution then they need to amend the constitution to remove the conflict.

Banning guns would be the equivalent of banning drugs/equipment used for abortions. Both have legitimate uses that don't involve murder. There are legitimate uses for both that don't involve murder. Guns are used to defend innocent lives. Abortion-related drugs/equipment is used to save women's lives after the natural death of an unborn child in an incomplete miscarriage.
I mean, there are maybe 15-20,000 gun related deaths per year in the US, and over half a million abortions per year.  Just cutting that abortion number in half will save many times the number of gun deaths. Mind you, I am not suggesting that we shouldn't care about gun deaths, but you would think that if you can pack DC in order to save the lives of a few thousand innocent gun victims, you should be able to pack DC to have ten times that number of innocent children.


All we can do is spread our beliefs. We can’t control the ignorant, but we can offer them hope. It’s up to them to accept the good news
You know why that is? Because there is no argument for pro-choice other than simply that it should be a woman's choice to go get an abortion. That's it. How can you scientifically prove that it's morally paramount to murder humans at the expense of a woman's choice? Again, you can't. Pro-life can provide scientific evidence of sentience during fetal development, and the worst thing for pro-choicers is that as science gets more advanced, we will get to see further into the womb and what actually happens. I always find this is how the far left goes too, when you present facts that they simply cannot refute, they either do one of two things: Present the source as fake. Use ad hominem attacks.
You can’t use scientific evidence to prove something is immoral or moral. Science just states what the reality of the situation is. It’s human beings that ascribe moral value to something. Even if the evidence shows that a fetus is aware from the moment of conception it’s is a matter of personal interpretation of the facts, opinion, and philosophy to determine whether or not abortion is ethical. There is no possible way to objectively determine the goodness or evil of anything, because morality itself is subjective.
What's your opinion on murder then? If morality is something that's just subjective should we legalise murder because it can be seen by some people as morally right to do so?
It’s my opinion that we shouldn’t legalize murder. That’s the point, it’s just my subjective opinion.
My point is, one morality is objectively right. The law has to choose one. That's why murder is illegal because we're not just like; "ok I wouldn't murder someone but that's not to say I'm gonna tell someone else not to."
By your own logic that would make abortion moral since it’s legal. Clearly that doesn’t work, if there is an objective morality than the legal system is not the source.
I'm not saying the law always is moral, I'm just saying it should be.
That leaves the original question unanswered. If as you believe morality is objective how does one prove this?
Whether or not morality is objective is irrelevant to the normative question of whether or not it should be illegal. If you say that it is relevant, then in what way is it relevant such that it doesn't undermine the other normative principles which make it the case that the paradigm cases we all agree is murder remain to be illegal? If you say "murder is wrong because it's like, just my opinion, man" well it's my opinion that women should not be allowed to kill fetal human beings. What now? The only way to make any sort of progress here is to deliberate morally with each other. So stop tossing out red herrings of irrelevant meta-ethical bullshit.
It’s not irrelevant, if there was an objective morality the law should coincide with that objective morality. Since there isn’t one, the morality of a thing is not sufficient enough to determine if that something should be illegal. Even though the majority of people think the death penalty is a good thing, one could argue that there are practical reasons why the practice should be stopped. What reason if any can you offer that would show that abortion should be illegal aside from “I think it’s wrong”?

What I meant was there are certain times like murder when everyones like "ya that's morally wrong, that should be illegal" so if murders illegal then abortion should be illegal. To relate back to your response to that comment where they said that's a baby, it's a human life and you responded saying that even if it is a human life, like us it doesn't matter. Well it does because if murder is illegal and an unborn child is human than that's murder and should be illegal. Also I'm not saying morals are the same thing as opinions and ok I shouldn't have said morals are objective but my point was supposed to be that abortion is murder .
Many people don’t think murder is wrong, but all it would take is one person to think that murder is good and your argument falls apart. Also not all killings of humans are murders. Execution of criminals, killing the enemy in war when your a soldier, killing in self defense; none of these are considered murder. This is because murder is specifically defined by the illegal killing of another person. Again abortion is legal, and thus by definition can not be murder (unless the law changes) however just because this is the case does not mean that abortion is moral or immoral, that is still up to interpretation.

Doesn't that kinda of highlight the difference though. Killing a born person is shunned almost unamamously, whereas abortion has plenty of people arguing that it's actually a good thing. You can take the logic the other way as well, if it were murder, way more people would be opposed to it, since they aren't, then it isn't murder.
True, appeals to morality will be meaningless to people who don't agree or care about morality as a concept. It is, however, possible to demonstrate why something is disordered, unnatural, unhealthy, problem-causing, etc. There's no real moral or immoral argument to eating disorders for example, but it is clearly physically unhealthy, mentally disordered, and a darwinian dead end not intended by nature.
It is not my argument that morality doesn’t exist or that one should not care about it. The question being is morality objective or subjective? I have no reason to believe that nature is a moral agent capable of intent. One could even argue that nature “intended” eating disorders and other maladies by virtue of the fact that they exist. Eating disorders can be determined to be unhealthy but something being unhealthy and disordered is only relevant in so far that one holds the opinion that being unhappy and dying is bad.
That's all true. I guess if you're arguing with that you're arguing with a self collapsing vortex of antimatter, though, and it'll defeat itself. If it's subjective they cant say anyone has an inherent right to do anything including aborting
I don’t disagree, I have no reason to believe there is such a thing as inherent rights. We are very fortunate to have the rights we do but they are not an inevitability to be taken for granted, at some point a regime could take over the country and burn the constitution.
It's only fortunate if you personally care about or enjoy rights
It just so happens that I do enjoy these things. You are right I should have said It is very fortunate for me that we have the rights we have.
There's no objective reason for anyone to care about what rights you enjoy or don't enjoy, though. Just like the human beings being aborted, whether they'd like to live or not.
I never said there was an objective reason for others to care about my rights. What point are you trying to make exactly?

The constitution could be burned by a hostile regime but that wouldn't erase our rights. The document rightfully states these are self-evident truths, which means they are true regardless of being included in the constitution. They're true in communist China. They're true in ancient Egypt. They're true hundreds of years in the future. They may not be recognized or honored by those in power, but they aren't any less true or real because of that. The constitution doesn't GIVE us rights we didn't previously have, it acknowledges and protects our rights which we have by virtue of being human. These rights also apply to the unborn as they are human too.
[deleted accidental double post]
While that may be the sentiment behind the constitution do you think that when our Chinese overlords enslave us all they are going to give a damn about our “self evident rights”? It’s a piece of parchment not a magical scroll with the power to change reality. Our rights are only as self evident as we believe they are, the constitution is only important because we decided it was. Also it says nothing about giving rights to humans, the key words are “people” and “persons”.  Which is different.
Exactly. Despite what pro-choice people say, abortion is fundamentally a philosophical and moral issue. The biology is relatively straightforward; it’s the moral value of the biological facts that is generally in dispute.
We have the correct opinion. Which is good because I believe true and morality will always win out.  Use the Socratic method whenever discussing abortion.
An opinion by its very definition cannot be correct or incorrect. What is true morality?
The sense of the word opinion is typically beliefs about matters of fact which are controversial or less obvious than other facts. What is true reality? What is love? Have you ever had a dream that you, um, you had, your, you- you could, you’ll do, you- you wants, you, you could do so, you- you’ll do, you could- you, you want, you want them to do you so much you could do anything? Sorry, we're asking irrelevant questions right? That's the game we're playing to avoid the issue?
I’m not sure what you’re point is but I’ll try and guess here. OP said they had the correct opinion which is not possible. When one thinks they have the correct opinion it is as if to say I think blue is the best color anyone who doesn’t agree is wrong. People on either camp pro life/choice would be served to be humbly reminded that their opinion of the right or wrongness of abortion is still just an opinion, regardless of the facts one had when they came to that conclusion.
Oh I see. So when certain people give their opinions in a court of law we're just supposed to take it as a preference that has no objective meaning whatever. I gave the commonly used definition of opinion and it doesn't entail that whatever it is we have opinions about there is no objective fact of the matter. To say you have an opinion is just to say you have a belief or hold an attitude toward something that it is the way things are. When people say they have a moral opinion it just means that it's what they believe the moral facts are and sometimes it means they are not entirely confident in the belief but they nevertheless think it to be the case. So you can have a correct opinion. Also, it doesn't matter if you think you can't have a correct opinion about moral facts because it makes no difference to the arguments for why or why not things ought to be illegal. Your issue is meta-ethical which means "beyond ethics" which means it has nothing to do with the normative issue at hand.
I mean, "Slavery is bad!" is an opinion. Is that not correct?
Yes that is an opinion.
Maybe opinion is not the best word there but I can't think of another, better one. People may not like this answer but morality comes from the Bible.   I know Dennis Prager and Micheal Shermer had a good talk about it on the Rubin Report. https://youtu.be/cRe0yt3HHjE
How have you determined that morality comes from the Bible?
Dang Using it against me, I will think about this for a couple days and maybe something becomes clear, because that's a great question.
There is a lot of problems with your thesis. Divinely decreed morality is arbitrary. Divinely decreed morality assumes the nature of god (the decrier) is good, whatever that nature may be. Is anything that god commands good as a blanket statement, or does he simply command things because they are good in and of themselves? Either god got complete creative control in deciding what was right and wrong (no matter what he decides), or he had to take into consideration other factors outside of himself when determining morality. If the first is true, then morality is arbitrarily whatever god says that it is, if the second is true then god is not needed for morality to exist. For a divinely decreed morality to be an argument for god’s existence, god must have had complete control of morality and so anything god does or commands must, by definition, be good - infanticide, genocide etc. Whatever he commands must be right because he is the source, the standard for absolute morality. He could just as easily have decided that showing compassion is as depraved as beating a child to death if he alone is the author of morality. There are many more problems with saying that morality is derived from holy texts specifically.
There are many depressing things in the world. Let's persevere.
When people can't actually respond to arguments, they resort to name calling. Ironic considering that the only side that consistently denies scientific fact is theirs.
That’s interesting - I hadn’t gotten that sense.  I’ve been called anti-women, or anti-feminist, or berated for letting the government control women’s bodies, but I haven’t been called uneducated. I wonder what’s the rationale for that?  There’s always a rationale, even if it’s a poor one.  Are they saying we don’t understand human physiology for saying a fetus is a human being?  I would think the opposite would be true - it seems to me to be poor public policy to have a nebulous definition of what a human being was.  A fetus has a unique human genetic code, ergo it’s human. Pro-choice people would have you believe that at some point during pregnancy, the fetus becomes human.  But it’s never quite clear what that point is.  Even most pro-choice people would say there’s something wrong with aborting a healthy nine-month-old fetus.  So when does it start to be okay to abort?  This is why it’s so much simpler to define a human being starting to exist as soon as that unique genetic code is formed - at conception.
Being pro-life is associated with being conservative and being religious. And being conservative and being religious is associated with being stupid by ignorant morons.
Well, that’s just silly.  First of all, there are plenty of atheist and liberal (in other ways) pro-lifers. Second, even if someone is conservative and religious, I suppose they can feel comfort in knowing that it’s not their pro-life position per se that makes other people accuse them of being dumb. /s
They can call me uneducated all they want.   I call them baby killers.
The reason I am prolife is because I have done the research and heard both sides of the argument. I have thought about it for years going back and forth. There are scientific, moral, ethical, religious, and secular arguments for being prolife. For prochoice people it always boils down to you must hate women and love Jesus. There is no nuance to their argument.
It's projection and insecurity. Nothing more.
To me it's not the having a different opinion part, it's that they call us ignorant for having the opinion that values and preserves life. Honestly everytime I think deeply about it it staggers how we ostracize people who choose to value science and err on the side of caution, life,  involving such an ethically and socially displicaple act.
Defamation is what you do when you realize that you have no real argument.
Let's just look at the demographics between those who are pro-life and those who identify as Pro-choice. According to Pew opposition to abortion (making it illegal in all or most cases) is the weakest among liberal Democrats at 8%, among the religiously nonaffiliated it is only 17% among college grads it is 29%. Conversely, opposition to abortion (making it illegal in all or most cases) is the strongest among conservative Republicans at 71%. among white evangelicals it is 70%, among those with a high school education or less it is 53%. http://www.norc.org/PDFs/GSS%20Reports/Trends%20in%20Attitudes%20About%20Abortion_Final.pdf http://news.gallup.com/poll/154946/non-christians-postgrads-highly-pro-choice.aspx So, the facts show that liberal, college educated, non-religious pro-lifers are very much the minority and the vast majority of the pro-life movement is made up conservative, lesser educated, religious folks. So, if the pro-life movement is based on "scientific facts" that have nothing to do with religion, why are so few non-religious college graduates in the movement? Better yet, if your movement is based on "scientific facts", why are there no major groups with names like "biologists for life" or "pro-life embryologists"? Why do the majority of the reputable medical organizations in the world support a women's right to choose? Its okay to have different opinions, but not different facts.
People are educated in an environment where being pro-life is looked down upon. If you’re a linguist, cool, that doesn’t mean you know jack about whether an insect is an animal or not (I have met several extremely intelligent people who thought insects were “their own thing”). Why should we trust those people, as opposed to embryologist, when it comes to whether an embryo qualifies as a distinct human life?
Here is a response to the comment above me made by Instaconfused27
"The idea that "life begins at conception" is not a scientific one. Since the disproof of 'spontaneous generation' (1668-1859), we have known that life only derives from life. Life arose billions of years ago and has continued since as a cycle. Assigning a beginning to a cycle (like the year) is arbitrary." -- Dr. Robert Wyman, (Professor of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1998‑present Program Director, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Undergraduate Science Education Program, 1989‑present Professor of Biology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1980‑1998) Do you trust Dr. Wyman?
Dr. Wyman is making a fallacy of the straw man. Life beings at conception means that the life of an individual organism begins at conception not that life simpliciter begins at conception. So no, I don't trust someone who is making an obvious straw man.
He keeps using the same quote and getting the same answer.  I am wondering what the point of it is.
Because you guys wrongly claim that "Every biologist/embryologist says life begins at conception." And I am proving that wrong by citing one of the most influential and living biologists today. I am sure if I applied your level of reasoning I could find inaccuracies with the biologists your movement cites too.
The problem is that the quote doesn't address the actual argument.  The life of the individual starts are conception.  No one on the pro-life side is talking about the unbroken chain of life from ameboas.  And I am not sure how anyone would be confused about that. If your goal is to show an embryologist doesn't agree with the phrase, I suppose you did, except for the fact that the person you are quoting apparently doesn't understand what that statement means in the context of abortion.
I could find quotes that address the actual argument, but that isn't the point here. The point was to show that not every biologist/embryologist would support this notion of "life beginning at conception". If we really want to delve into the actual argument, I could probably cleave through a good amount of the SPL and Abort73 and Live Action Medical "Testimonies" and Quotations that only make vague notions to when life begins as well. As for Dr. Wyman. We can find the full lecture and quote here: https://oyc.yale.edu/molecular-cellular-and-developmental-biology/mcdb-150/lecture-23 This is academic teaching that is accredited at one of the world's most prestigious universities taught by one of the worlds most reputable experts in this field. Dr. Wyman during his lecture actually goes on to address more of your points: Now more educated people, when discussing this in more detail, understand that it’s a cycle but they decide that fertilization is the final genetic–sets the final genetic constitution of the fetus and therefore we can legitimately say–point to that as the origin point. Of course that’s not true. Now that we know in great detail. At the time of fertilization, the nucleus of the egg is still diploid. It’s only after fertilization and sometime later, that the female nucleus goes through its final division and that’s random which chromosomes are going to be included in the embryo and which chromosomes are not. The final–part of the step–one of the steps of the final genetic constitution happens after fertilization, if you again define fertilization as the entry of the sperm. And then even later, the female has two Xs, but in every cell only one X is going to be active. Again, at a later stage, in fact way after this multi-cellular division has already taken place, in each cell one of the Xs gets inactivated and basically crumples up and gets thrown away. The final genetic constitution is not set until a good bit of time after fertilization. We can see this in Calico cats. Calico cats have these sorts of biggish black patches and biggish orange patches. We don’t have that with our hair, our hair is usually all one color until it turns gray, but in Calico cats what you’re seeing is at a certain point in development, and you can count the number of patches so you know how many cells this comes from, in one cell there will be two sets of genes. One which will have the melanin gene to make melanin and make it black, and one will miss that and make an orange patch, and in this cell the gene for orange turns off and so you get a black–the chromosome that has the orange–the whole chromosome is turned off and you get a black patch, and in this one, the one for melanin gets turned off and you get an orange patch. The number of patches tells you at what cell stage this process happened because each of those patches are the descendants of a single cell in a somewhat advanced embryo. You can find more information here at 23 min, 44 sec. You can still disagree with Dr. Wyman, but I encourage you at least watch the full lecture before making a judgement.
My biggest issue with your continued use of that quote was frankly because it did not make much sense based on the argument. This longer quote is more of what I would be expecting to see if someone was actually refuting my argument in the context of abortion. Still, this isn't a particularly strong refutation.  It just implies some fuzziness in the mechanism, which I don't think would surprise any educated pro-life person. I would note that final disposition is less important than the existence of all the material needed to produce the final product.  The fertilized egg may contain genes that will never be turned on, or which may be turned on later, but those genes are still there.  The color of the eventual hair (or fur) may be indeterminate, but the available choices are set.  The child, from that point on, will develop according to that genetic potential.  This genetic potential does not exist in one organism before fertilization. Also bear in mind, when dealing with life or death situations, when mechanisms are potentially fuzzy, there is always a better outcome when you err on the side of caution instead of permissiveness.
Wait, what? Is Doctor Wyman implying that life never begins? Is Wyman supporting the Purge?
Moral syllogisms have two premises. A fact premise and a value premise. A moral conclusion can be "based on" a fact about what it is to be a fetal human being and a value premise about how the normative conclusion follows that because of this fact we ought not kill them. Also, eugenics was a very popular position among academics not too long ago. I'm not that concerned with the fact that academia seems to churn out relatively politically like-minded people. I don't think being educated correlates with being more virtuous. The reason more people in academia are left-leaning is because being younger, like college age, people are more inclined to left leaning political and social views and these college-aged people formed a community and stay in the university culture never leaving their ideological bubble and they never really investigate the matter on any intellectual level. But the same goes for the other side as well. I just happen to think the left is wrong on abortion because I have investigated the issue for years and read deeply into moral philosophy and I found all the moral arguments for abortion to be incredibly weak.

Great news!
Good!
good
It'll fail.

I don't understand the point you're making with this question. We probably don't have accurate statistics on abortions in Africa.
Because African countries are poor and barely capable of collecting data on anything. Also most African countries do not permit abortion for anything except preservation of life so there are millions of illegal abortions that happen on the continent.
As Americans, can only expect to change the laws here in America, so American statistics are relevant
...who said we're all Americans....
No one. I assumed OP is American
Oh okay that makes sense.
Hey guys, we're trying to kick off a new subreddit, /r/abortiondebate, where pro-lifers can openly debate pro-choicers. It's being modded by two pro-lifers (me and /u/anony22330) & two pro-choicers (the mod from /r/prochoice and another pro-choicer) -- we are all working together to employ fair rules. Although we do have some debate here in /r/prolife, our rules on pro-choicers limits the depth of that debate.The subreddit is currently pretty small, and we're hoping it will grow into a place for productive exchange of ideas. Please, if that's something you're interested in, go subscribe! I'm happy to answer any questions as well.
Ugh. Time to be extremely active on a sub that I don't enjoy, stresses me out constantly, and gives me a net negative karma rating just for participating lol. Assuming it ends up like r/CapitalismVSocialism. I kid, though. Thanks for creating these types of subs. I subbed and I'll participate regularly if it remains active.
Right? I tell myself I won't get into every debate but it can be hard to stay quiet. As far as up and downvotes, the sub is pretty unknown right now. In fact just with this post there's probably more pro-lifers subscribed than pro-choicers. So it certainly won't be like the rest of reddit where even a whiff of disagreement sends you to ultimate negative karma :P
Will there be a no downvote rule?
Sidebar rules don't stop people unfortunately. Preventing downvotes or retroactively punishing people for downvoting things mods disagree with is almost impossible to enforce. My hope is that pushing for more nuanced and respectful discussion will in itself keep the trollish downvoting at bay. We could also employ a long delay for up/downvote revelation.
Maybe the way to go would be to remove the downvote button altogether and use active moderation to remove abusive/off topic comments. It would go a long way towards ensuring that the threads don't end up having their discussion up or down voted based on which side has more readers or participants.
Hm I didn't realize that was an option. I'll look into it, or maybe we'll just see how it goes first.
You can't actually remove the downvote button. You can only hide it with css, but anyone who knows how to get around css can still downvote.
I know it's impossible to moderate, but if I'm having a debate in CvS with someone one on one, and I see they're downvoting me, I usually call them out on it, and show them that they're being entirely too emotional to actually be thinking about the points I'm making
Yup it's often pretty obvious when it's the person you're talking to because as soon as they reply you have a downvote. Otherwise it can be kind of hard to know who's doing it.
Agreed. These debate subs tend to quickly become dominated by one side, who upvote themselves and downvote the minority. This discourages people from the minority opinion from debating and it becomes and echo chamber.
Thanks !
To be perfectly honest, I'm not sure why this would be better than an abortion thread on one of the existing debate subreddits.
More equal representation, smaller sub (less overwhelmingly PC response), and fair mods.

Dan Fisher is on around 2% in the primary polls so far. And considering it's Oklahoma, ALL the Republican candidates are against abortion. Current Gov. Mary Fallin has signed over 20 abortion restrictions into law.
I hope some others drop out. I'd be good with a couple others but rn Dan is my #1

[citation needed] Abortion is banned in the Kenyan Constitution except in life-or-death emergencies. There may be illegal back alley abortions, but I doubt it is well known where they dispose of anything. This image looks to me like it's just a lie in the caption to rile people up.
NSFL
Am I supposed to see them, because I don't. Not sure I want to either.
Genocidal Mass Grave.

They showed this at my school.
True story with the actual people which presents a powerful pro-life message!
I was having this discussion with my brother, who is one the fence about abortion (I'm pro life). He asked what I think should be done with people involved with abortions.Now, to be clear, this is just a hypothetical in most cases, as I don't know of any country that doesn't have a grandfather clause- i.e. anything done while it was legal can't be punished now that it's illegal. Nonetheless I think it's an important question about morality and I'd like to hear what you guys think.If I was in control, I'd say that women who have recieved abortions by and large should not be held accountable, for the simple reason that mens rea would be extremely difficult to prove in most cases. Women (and men) are fed misinformation about abortion as soon as they are old enough to understand. Opposition to the status quo, whether in the form of protest or simply voicing the other view, is met with either hatred and ostracization. More often, it's met with censorship. See the recent Canadian laws against protesting abortion for proof.So I don't think women can really be held accountable in nearly any case. They've been essentially brainwashed into believing the faulty idea that a fetus is "just a clump of cells".Now, doctors who have performed abortions? That's a whole nother story.Doctors have no claim to ignorance. Ob/gyns, and any doctor performing an abortion, have gone through medical school, see the fetus react, and have full access to the knowledge that leads to realizing the humanity of a fetus. In fact, many doctors take joy in performing abortions and are downright disgusting, repulsive and reprehensible in their apathetic worldview towards it: http://mobile.wnd.com/2018/03/abortionist-babies-cant-scream-because-i-cut-cord/Those who perform abortions are 100% culpable in both actus reus and mens rea. Therefore in my view they are guilty of first degree murder, of children no less, and thus should be given life in prison with no chance of parole. In that utopia where abortions are illegal, I'd like to see thatbe the punishment for anyone who performs an abortion.
I really hate these kinds of questions, because the answer is always "It depends." or some variation thereof.
I know. But that's how these issues go. I'm not asking anyone to sign a contract on what they're saying or write a 150,000 word essay like TrustedAdult. I recognize these issues are complex which is why I didn't use alot of definitive words. Nuance is a thing that a lot of people like prochoicers don't get. Post some ideas, and if they have some outliers, we can discuss them. I'm not going to "Gotcha!" you, and you shouldn't care when people like TrustedAdult do too (assuming that's what you're concerned about)
It should be treated the same as if she'd hired someone to kill a born child. If there was coercion involved, or some kind of temporary insanity, that should be taken into consideration as usual.
Nuance is a thing pro-choicers don't get?!?!?! Are you kidding me? Pro-lifers are the ones who see the issue in black and white---abortions are wrong, no one gets one for any reason. Pro-choicers are the ones that see all the factors and reasons that go into why a woman may not want to continue a pregnancy and realize that it's too complex to lay down a single rule (no abortions), that it's a decision no one should make for someone else. That's why nuance is.
Abortion is black and white because murder is black and white. You call it not wanting to continue a pregnancy to make it sound nicer. Let's call the act for what it is. Killing a fetus. The abortion debate may be nuanced due to the factors surrounding it, but the core of the debate is shockingly simple. If the fetus is person, killing it is murder. If it isn't, it isn't. "it's a decision no one should make for someone else." I'm happy to make the decision for women to not kill their babies. "Nuance is a thing pro-choicers don't get?!?!?! Are you kidding me?" Yes, pro choicers do not understand nuance. This is why they think a fetus is simply part of the woman's body because it is inside her. I guess parasites and viruses don't exist either, once it enters your body it becomes part of you just like your body, no seperation.
Heres some nuance for you, not every killing is a murder. There are plenty of situations outside of abortion where you can kill a person and not be a murderer. Murder: the unlawful premeditated killing of one human being by another. If a fetus is a person then abortion is killing a person= valid If a fetus is a person then abortion is murder= not valid
Well of course not because that's self-referential and tautological. "Abortion is not murder because its legal, therefore it's not murder." We argue that it should be considered murder under the law.
Well then the pro life phrase if they cared to be accurate ought to be: “Abortion should be murder” Not the common but incorrect “abortion is murder” To say something is something is different from saying something should be something.
That doesn't change the fact that you're being self-referential. Murder, immoral homicide, semantic games. It doesn't indict the idea that it is unethical and an atrocity. You're right though when it is incorrect to say it's murder.
Now that we have taken the step back to say the abortion is not murder. You now have to construct a different argument for your case. In order to have an valid argument it relies on having premises that are true The meaning of words in an argument matter much in the way the value of a number matters in a mathematical equation. Therefore the following argument is invalid because premise 1 is false: X abortion is murder Murder is wrong X Therefore abortion is wrong A (not)= B B = C A (not)= C
OP and I aren't the same guy. :P It is not the act of "murder" in my opinion that makes abortion unethical and immoral, it is the killing of an innocent child -- infanticide -- that makes me against it. Multiple mathematical equations can lead to the same answer. Even if one is proven wrong, others can be proven correct.

Why is the woman not culpable?
Lack of mens rea (guilty mind).
They consented to the murder? A get away driver is charged as an accessory
Not if the getaway driver has a gun to his head or if he's mentally ill. There are ways you can do something illegal and yet not have mens rea.
Not sure that applies to the case where a woman pays the doctor to kill her kid
The fact that most women have been genuinely duped into believing what they're doing is morally acceptable.
Do not the abortionists also believe what they're doing is morally acceptable?
Some maybe. but it could be argued they are willfully blind. The evidence of humanity is overwhelming and available to them.
Sure, so the women are also willfully blind, as the evidence is also overwhelming and available to them. Women feel guilty after having an abortion because they are guilty. They may not have held the knife but they asked for the murder and paid for it and assisted in it.
"Women feel guilty after having an abortion because they are guilty. They may not have held the knife but they asked for the murder and paid for it and assisted in it." I agree with you. But feminists convince them the guilt comes from the patriarchy so they never contemplate it. The evidence is available, but they don't know to look for it because society represses it for them. It's the same as how members of a cult don't realize they're in a cult, despite all the evidence showing their beliefs are wrong. The indoctrinated are conditioned into their beliefs by the society they're in and that can be very hard to break. Mental conditioning is complex and should not be taken lightly.
Mens rea just means that you intended to perform the illegal action (i.e., it wasn't an accident), not that you believe it's immoral. Otherwise, a racist could get away with lynching someone, just because he believes it's the right thing to do.
In the narrow scope of a legal test, you are right. But it also applies more vaguely and importantly to the idea of whether the person is in their "right mind" so to speak. This is the broader tests judges consider when deciding to overturn laws, allow evidence i.e. was a cop doing something in good faith?
If you're determining whether someone should be held legally culpable for an action, the narrow scope is the applicable one. Otherwise, someone who was raised to believe a husband should have total dominion over his wife could claim he didn't have mens rea to rape his wife.
What about women who use abortion as birth control? Or those who elect to do gender-select abortions? (Don't want girls. Don't want boys.)
Those people are reprehensible, but it doesn't really change anything I said.
I agree.  The doctor is culpable.  The woman is not. The only reason to outlaw any abortion is if you recognize that life begins before that abortion takes place.  Therefore, setting aside the possibility of abortion being outlawed for purely political reasons, that would likely be the penalty.  If abortion is not the murder of children, then there is nothing wrong with it. I don't know offhand what the penalty for murder is, or if it increases if the victim is a minor.  It probably varies state by state.  But yes, if abortion becomes illegal, that is what the penalty should be. That being said, for a world without abortion to be anything close to a Utopia, we must do much more than simply outlawing abortion.  We need to do more to support women raising their children in challenging situations, as well as better sexual education so that people know what they're getting into.
I agree with everything you said. Not sure what else to add.
Dang echo chambers...
It's too bad I can't have these conversations with people who disagree without being called a woman hating misogynist
Ben Shapiro’s argument that the woman may not be fully accountable as she may not have the mens rea is BS. The modern zeitgeist says unborn children aren’t alive and therefore you aren’t committing murder as you don’t think it’s a human. Well White Supremacists don’t think Jews and blacks are human either, do we forgive them? The question is Utopia. In a Utopia year woman get at least joint venture in the way a person hiring a hitman would get.
If a man hires a hitman to kill someone, both are guilty and are responsible for the person dying. I firmly believe both the woman and doctor should be held responsible.
This is the best analogy in the whole thread.
Abortionists and their customers, with the full penalty of murder. The belief that they are killing a "clump of cells" is not an excuse, in fact it is an evil belief. Of course, in such a utopia, most people would no longer believe such lies anyway. The Nazis believed that they were killing subhumans who didn't have the right to live - does that make them less culpable?
I personally am against the death penalty, so I could never use it as a punishment and feel justice was attained. The first generation Nazis who aided Hitler's rise to power are fully culpable of course. But I would argue the last Nazis, the ones born into the Hitler youth and brainwashed as children through adulthood that the Jews are the source of all evil, have less culpability. How much less I'm not sure, but imagine being born in Germany in 1930, being brought up in the Nazi era. You go to kindergarten and are taught Nazi ideology. You go to school and you are taught Nazi ideology. You go to the Hitler Youth and are taught to admire hitler all before you're old enough to think for yourself. On top of all of that true information is censored and the only information available to you in your entire country is propaganda. If you think you wouldn't have been a Nazi if you were born in Germany in WWII, you're wrong. Never forget history is written by the victors.
I didn't specify the death penalty, just that abortionists and their clients should face the same penalty as other murderers and no less. That could be the death penalty, but it could also be life imprisonment. Well, I have to disagree. An adult who supported and participated in a genocide is not less culpable just because they were taught Nazi ideology as a child. Likewise ISIS members who kill Christians/other minorities are not less culpable for murder, even if they are taught that it is right as children. They can plainly see that their victims are human. The information is available to abortionists and clients that the unborn are human. It's culturally widespread knowledge - who doesn't know that pregnant women can feel their baby kick? If someone was fully unaware of what pregnancy was for some reason, ok, I believe they aren't culpable. That would be extremely rare outside of mental illness or the extremely young. But pro-abortion people usually believe that those humans are not persons, that the mother's bodily autonomy trumps all, etc. This doesn't reduce culpability. I wouldn't discount the possibility that I wouldn't, considering that there were significant opponents, especially from orthodox Christians because Nazis supported eliminating the Old Testament (too Jewish). But if I was a Nazi who participated in the genocide, I fully recognize that I would be culpable of murder and deserve to be executed.
The same sentence she would receive if the baby was born. Life sentence basically.
I agree. But I was more asking if the people if r/prolife believe women who get abortions should be punished or if it should just bethe doctors.
Doctors in most instances and the women in some. (Exception: If the pregnancy were putting the woman's life at risk) The other people I think should be punished are the legal aides/attorneys. Some people who have abortions are children. Their parents are never told (by the clinic or by legal aides). The children are then told who knows what. It's shameful.
Wow. So women are just too stupid to understand what an abortion is? Are they too stupid to understand all medical procedures, or just this one in particular? By this logic, women shouldn't be able to make any medical decisions for themselves. Women are not brainwashed. They know what an abortion is, they know what pregnancy and childbirth are, they know what the end result is, that's why they want abortion--- they don't want to be pregnant.
Either people are too brainwashed to understand abortion or they're so morally reprehensible that they have no problem getting them. You pick. Nice try making it about the wimminz, but it's society as a whole that views abortion as acceptable. "Are they too stupid to understand all medical procedures, or just this one in particular? By this logic, women shouldn't be able to make any medical decisions for themselves. " This is just retarded, I don't know how to respond to such a stupud statement. "Women are not brainwashed. They know what an abortion is, they know what pregnancy and childbirth are, they know what the end result is, that's why they want abortion--- they don't want to be pregnant. " Women aren't a monolith. They don't all know what abortion really is. But what you're really arguing is women are fully aware they are killing their children and are totally fine with it. Nice picture of women you paint there.
I am left wondering what the stats are for how many children women kill each year just because the law says it's ok they aren't outside yet, compared to how many people men kill with guns, never mind rape culture I see a strong murder culture. There are leftie vegans screaming about bacon sandwiches but endorsing killing kids. I am pro everybody's choice until it hurts someone else. Eskimo children have their first birthday just three months after they are born because at that point they are one year old. Women used to be affectionately know as the fairer sex these days they come across as vindictive childish and oppressive, but I guess that's a woman's prerogative or is it their privilege. Shit here comes the onslaught am I ready (No I'm just a man)
I agree that the person performing the abortion (in most cases, a doctor) should have primary culpability and suggested sentencing should be up to the maximum penalty possible for murder; to what degree would likely depend on the circumstance.  Also dependent on the circumstance, IMO, would be the mother's culpability.  As others have said, abortions are often motivated by real concerns the mother has about her ability to raise a child, whether economically, for health reasons, or others, and in many of those cases the father or her own family may be out of the picture or otherwise unwilling or unable to assist.  Women in these situations may not know where to turn.  In such an ideal world where abortion is outlawed, I would hope that there are an abundance of pregnancy counseling centers and organizations such as Birthright for women to rely on, but if there aren't, or those centers are not helping enough, raising the child on her own may be a really frightening prospect for a young mother.  In those cases, I would have a hard time holding the mother culpable.  However, in cases where the reason was just because the mother didn't want the child right now, the child might have a birth defect or illness such as Down's Syndrome in cases which the mother has the means to care for the child, or for gender selection, then I would hold the mother accountable to at least some degree, dependent upon severity of circumstance.  The main problem, though, is where that line is drawn and a prosecutor's ability to prove that motive/accountability.  But once abortion is (hopefully) outlawed someday in the US, that's something the courts will eventually hash out. I am curious, though:  in countries where abortion is currently outlawed, who bears the brunt of culpability and what sentence do they receive?
I'd be totally cool with punishments for everyone involved. The doctor, the mother, whoever paid for it, whoever drove her there, everyone. Just like we do with the murder of older people. The only way a mother wouldn't be largely if not primarily responsible is if she was literally being forced or threatened into doing it. Literally, not figuratively.
What about women who get abortions, who are themselves doctors? What about people who self-induce abortion? This post contains no pro-life or pro-choice content.
Your first statement, the answer is obvious. Culpability applies. Second statement would largely fall under what I covered, so is a non-sequiter. Your third statement is just ridiculous.
I asked two questions and made one statement, but sure.  Also maybe I should have written "comment" instead of "post" -- perhaps that's why you find it ridiculous. For the first question, okay!  So if I'm pregnant, and have an MD, I would be at risk of facing legal penalties if I got an abortion.  But if I'm pregnant, and haven't finished high school, I'm not at risk, I can claim to be brainwashed by the forces of society.  That is the model that you're proposing? How would this be made a law?
"I asked two questions and made one statement, but sure." Yeah, nitpick at grammar. That's always helpful. "For the first question, okay! So if I'm pregnant, and have an MD, I would be at risk of facing legal penalties if I got an abortion. But if I'm pregnant, and haven't finished high school, I'm not at risk, I can claim to be brainwashed by the forces of society. That is the model that you're proposing?" It's not as cut and dry as you're purposefully making it, as per your usual. Obviously this is not down to whether an arbitrary educational goal has been passed. This is about the legal doctrine of culpability-both mens rea abd actys reus need to be present. As I stated, most women I know of who get abortions fail to meet mens rea in my eyes. However, being an ob/gyn or having an MD is a good place to start at defining which people are knowledgeable enough to have mens rea. "How would this be made a law?" It wouldn't, not in the first world's political and social climate.
About as helpful as calling statements ridiculous, you're right. Let me rephrase.  If you were in charge, how would you write this as a law?
I think they basically answered you: if you have an MD degree, you are culpable.
So... not DOs, RNs, NPs, PhDs...?  Just MDs.  Cecile Richards doesn't face charges if she gets an abortion, but I do. Does that seem odd to you?  Can you think of any other law that works that way?
And you get on other people for being nitpicky? Yes, there will obviously be other degrees that can make someone culpable. I listed one of them since you seem confused about how this could possibly be encoded into law.
u/TrustedAdult has no interest in honest debate. I've encountered her several times and all she ever does is nitpick irrelevant shit like grammar, move the goalpost, and intentionally misunderstand simple arguments. One of the most disingenuous people I've ever encountered. I have basically no interest in debating someone with no interest in an actual conversation. That being said, one would have to jump through a lot of mental hoops to sleep at night, having killed several fetuses. I still maintain ob/gyns and related staff who perform abortions know somewhere inside that what they are doing is reprehensible, it's why they create such shitty justifications and mental gymnastics.
Don't mean to start something but you are basically discussing whether people like u/trustedadult should have to go jail for a service they legally provide, no need to be overly harsh.

I'm listing them not out of a desire to nitpick but out of sheer astonishment.  I can't think of any law out there that makes an act criminal based on the degree of one's education. Are you on Bojack's side here thinking that this is reasonable?  "US law: it is illegal to perform an abortion.  Also, it is illegal to obtain an abortion if you have a post-graduate degree."
And I can't think of any topic quite like abortion, where millions of people are clueless about prenatal development yet hire someone to kill their offspring hundreds of times a day, where half the country finds this completely abhorrent and would be willing to jail those who perpetrate it, yet understand that would both be impractical and unfair to many involved. It's on the level of the slave practices in the US, that is one of the only comparable atrocities that comes to mind as far as the tension between social acceptability and rejection, except I'd argue that one involves far more culpability. I mean would you rather all women who get abortions get sent to jail? You're making what sounds like a continuum fallacy, wherein because someone hasn't proposed a perfectly logical line to draw between clearly culpable and clearly ignorant, that the proposition that there should even be a line ought to be rejected. Which is ironic since the pro-choice side kind of relies on drawing indistinct lines in pregnancy. It's totally reasonable to hold more knowledgeable people more accountable for their actions. One way of doing that -- no, not the only way -- is by verifying their level of knowledge through their degree. Your quote is cheeky yet I can't tell if you're feigning this level of ignorance. It would be illegal to obtain an abortion no matter your level of knowledge. We're discussing punishment, not illegality.

I would punish the doctors. I struggle with the idea of punishing woman who have an abortion. Abortion is often tied to poverty and low-incomes. That is not an excuse but should society not take some blame that some people see abortion as the only solution?
I wouldn't necessarily say poverty justifies anything close to killing. But I agree in most cases we should punish women for aforementioned reasons. Also, in the perfect world where abortion is recognized as wrong, those women are going to have to live with the fact that they killed their child, and possibly the ostracization of killing your child. That may be punishment enough.
Would you want different punishments for how long the women was into the pregnancy ? ie more severe for abortion at three months than three days?


You mean when the entirety of Reddit starts calling you a sexist republican Christian privileged white male when actually you're a low-income liberal Jewish woman who got pregnant at 17 and probably knows more about crisis pregnancies then they ever will? Yeah, I know that face.
Yea, I’m a liberal women who’s been pregnant 4 times with adoption in my family. It’s nice to be able to throw it in their face once in a while. Oops I mean “woman”. Get ready for correction. Lol.
*than
Oh no I typed something quickly on a cell phone  in the wee hours of the morning. I must be punished.
Same thing with pro-guns lol.
This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.

Wow. not gonna lie, I would never have expected this from California.
(No news coverage)
YES
The biggest argument I hear is "a fetus isn't human" and I'm assuming others have heard it as well.The end results of [abortion and a miscarriage are the same]: The baby is dead.The ONLY difference: Is whether the expectant mother wants the pregnancy or not.Next time a pro-choice person complains:You say: If I shouldn't be upset about abortions then I wont't be upset about a woman's miscarriage either.The other person will naturally respond: That's a horrible thing to say!And you say: No it's not. A fetus isn't a person right? It's just a clump of cells.Then they'll respond with: But that's different...You ask: How's it different?They say: Because what makes a miscarriage a "miscarriage" is that the woman wanted--And then they get stuck.The intent never changes the outcome (a baby dying)Most pro-choicers won't acknowledge that.A pro-choicer likes to argue that that the "situational context" of "abortion" or "miscarriage" determines whether or not a fetus is an "unborn child".Pro-choice (abortion): It's not an unborn child, it's not a baby, you're not killing a baby it's a lump of cells..etc.Pro-choice (miscarriage at any stage): Mourns the loss of their baby and refers to the fetus as such.If you can get them to acknowledge/admit that the fetus is an "unborn child" regardless of circumstance...you can force them to acknowledge that what they're advocating for is immoral and wrong.Thoughts?Edit: Additional Info. (Thanks so much for the feedback everyone.)
I could see a prochoicer objecting to this. Even if they don't believe that a miscarriage is the loss of a child, they can admit that it is the loss of a potential child. Like, you're building a house and when only the frame has been erected, it burns down. Wouldn't a simpler analogy be: Is there no difference between murder and natural death because the end results are the same?
No and I will explain why. The terms miscarriage and abortion immediately narrow the subject matter to only "the loss of a pregnancy" so it's easier to create a discussion/debate about that topic using those terms. Because you can more quickly get everyone on the same topic of debate. And I want to focus only on that. While I mentioned that the end results were the same (Death of the baby) I also included that the situations prior to the "loss of pregnancy" were different. If you use the murder/natural death analogy it becomes difficult as the topic of debate then widens to every life stage. (Infant, toddler, child, teenager and adult.) And it makes the subject matter WAY too broad. You could have an argument over abortion vs death row You could have an argument over abortion vs accidental death You could have an argument over mothers who have abortions vs mothers who commit infanticide (Andrea Yates) You could have an argument over abortion vs refusing medical intervention Make sense? Stance: I feel it is morally/medically unethical to kill an unborn child. If someone were to debate me about it, I would only want to focus on that topic. Edit: Added info.
Can confirm: we do.  Heck, I'll sympathize with somebody's infertility if they're sad about it.
It's like saying murder is the equivalent of dying of cancer because the end result is the same. It's a fundamental misunderstanding of the core discussion. Not really their fault though, the mainstream "reproductive/womens rights" echo-chamber side of the pro-choice argument will churn out that kind of ignorance
This does go the other way, though. I had a prochoicer stump me with the question "are mothers who cause serial miscarriages guilty of murder as well, knowing that they always cause miscarriages when they get pregnant?"
If she causes a miscarriage, it's an abortion, not a miscarriage. If she didn't cause the miscarriage, she is obviously not guilty of murder. I know with certainty that 100% of my children will die (in the womb or at 100 years old), but that doesn't make me a serial killer if I have 15 kids.
You could make an argument for manslaughter, perhaps, but not murder. The intention is to bring new life, not to destroy it, after all.
True. The argument is still one that stumps me, though
Yes. Ive had this exact line of thought when i found out what the term "rainbow baby" meant. A rainbow baby is a baby born after a miscarriage. Like why do they mourn the loss of life in the womb and celebrate the new life that is now here is because it was a life. Im still really confused why my pro-choice friend doesnt see the contradiction.
Aren't you answering your own question? In a miscarriage where the mother expected the pregnancy, she reasonable expected something and didn't get it. If she got an abortion then presumably she didn't have an expectation of having a child. I don't see the contradiction. It really doesn't have anything to do with what a fetus is.

I kinda of see what you're saying, but pretend babies still come from storks. The stork is coming and your excited and then there is a storm and it doesn't arrive. You're sad, you thought you were gonna have a child and now you aren't. There is a loss there. Now pretend you don't want the child and you find a way to get the story to not come. Now that's good because there was no expectation, there was no loss. If you are expecting a child, and lose it, that loss is naturally going to manifest itself in the fetus, it represents something to an expectant mother. If she doesn't actually want the child then it doesn't represent anything. Let's say you have some nice vase that has been passed down for 10 generations in your family, well technically it's just a piece of porcelain, it if broke you would be much more upset than you would if you broke some random dinner plate, because even though they are technically the same they represent very different things. The loss is of the expectation.

That was kind of my point, they aren't related, you seem to be trying to relate them. Whether the fetus is a person or not has nothing to do with how a mother feels after losing a pregnancy or getting an abortion. Its a loss of an expectation.
This thread may offer some insight to how the pro-choice side views miscarriage. It's basically asking if pro-choicers would attend the funeral of a miscarriage.  It's sad that most of them wouldn't support their friend or family member in a time of great need simply due to their own semantics.
You are lying.  Most people said that they would attend under the right circumstances. Responses showing support for friends or family in a time of need: Responses showing conflicted feelings or feelings of cultural disconnect: Responses saying no: (These two comments above, by the way, are the only two that come close to bringing up semantics.)
Oh hi! :) I'm lying huh? Let's have a run down of some if the comments shall we? (Sorry I can't get them to separate, I'm on mobile.) Most upvoted comment in the entire thread so the one most viewers agreed with:
I quoted all of those.  Looks like a minority.  (Weighting them by upvotes/downvotes... still a minority.) I put "mischaracterized" first instead of "lied," and then decided that it was a sufficient mischaracterization that I'd call it a lie. The idea that the top comment represents the majority opinion is novel and incorrect.
Too bad everyone downvoted the positive ones. The most popular are the most cynical.
Your original statement: Your revision: I maintain my statement:
So the majority of those who read this top statement didn't actually agree with it and really meant to downvote in favor of a few empathetic responses, but (I guess because the buttons are so close together) they accidentally hit upvote instead? I guess it happens.
Not my top theory for how it would happen that the top post does not represent a majority opinion.  I'm sure you can come up with a better one.
How about most people on r/pro-choice agree with the top comment here but simply couldn't say the same thing better themselves, or they knew it would just be a reiteration of this exact post.
Sure, that's another theory.  My theory is "a bunch of people agreed with this one, a bunch of other people agreed with these other ones, and most people didn't upvote or downvote anything at all."
You could take that approach but my preferred response is in intentions and actions. Miscarriage has no action taken on the part of the mother, is not intended. Abortion does have action taken by the mother, and is intended. Totally changes the moral landscape
Today I read on the news that a 14 year old from Paraguay died during labor.The government didn't let her have an abortion.The director of the hospital said:Her body wasn't ready for the pregnancy.And I wonder what does the pro-life folk think about that.
I think you will find most pro-life advocates are okay with an abortion that's done for medically necessary reasons, this obviously being one. These sorts of abortions, while tragic, are still very rare, in comparison to the thousands performed every year simply because the mother didn't want to be pregnant. It is these sorts of needless murders we are trying to prevent.
Yes, I agree with you, but also, I don’t know any of the details of this particular situation, but I wonder why they didn’t do a C-Section if natural labour was so dangerous for her?
What I have found is that most pro-life advocates on here, when pressed, are either unwilling to state what constitutes medical necessity, or say that medical necessity constitutes an >50% chance of death.
I'll state it: a condition in which a physician decides the mother's life is in danger. An OB/GYN has two patients in the case of a pregnant woman, so they much consider the life of both of them before making any decision. A mother is not qualified to make this decision unilaterally, as the other patient has no voice.
Did you really just say say that I cannot decide on my own whether or not to risk my life with a medically dangerous pregnancy? That someone else will make that decision for me? Of course you did, that's the "pro-life" position, that you (or someone you appoint) will decide for every other woman that they must endure the risks of pregnancy, regardless of the impact on their own health, even if that impact includes a likelihood of death. Do you really not understand how outrageous that sounds?
No, but I'm certain that's what you read. I never said anyone should risk their life. What I said, was that the average pregnant woman is not an expert on how risky a pregnancy may be. If you feel you must end a pregnancy because you feel it risks your health, but an OB/GYN does not see the same risk, then I am inclined to believe your motivation for ending the pregnancy comes from emotion and your own convenience, rather than from fear of your life. What's more outrageous is that people enter into sexual relationships knowing the risks, pregnancy being one of them, yet these same people are shocked when they are asked to own up to the responsibility of taking those risks. If someone has sex and gets pregnant, they have already tacitly agreed to the responsibility that comes with it. It's not ethical or moral to end a human life, simply because they now want to shirk that responsibility.
...do you think that clears everything right up? How much danger?  Every pregnancy has a risk of death.  It is always safer not to be pregnant. Nope, I have one patient.  The pregnant person is my patient.
I never said it "clears things up". Any medical case where lives are at risk is a harrowing one. Which is why you need a proper physician in a hospital involved. Stop. You know exactly what I mean. The vast, vast majority of pregnancies end with a healthy birth. I am talking about cases where giving birth or carrying a child has a very high chance of killing the mother, cases that are exceedingly rare. Most pregnancies to not carry such a risk. I'm sorry, but if you are an OB/GYN this is simply not true. They have two lives they are concerned with. The "doctor" at Planned Parenthood operating the vacuum? I agree, that person believes they have one patient alone. But they don't see the unborn child as a human being. They see it as a nuisance and a paycheck.
Sure. How high of a chance? I'm an ob/gyn.  I'm frequently concerned about fetal well-being, because fetal well-being is a very high priority for many of my patients.  However, the fetus is not my patient.
So if fetal well-being was not one of your patients priority and they prioritized partying like a twenty year old would you recommend smoking, drinking and doing drugs during the pregnancy or advise against? I just don’t think you are being honest with yourself or us right now. Come on.
Question unanswered. If they were planning on carrying to term and delivering I would recommend against it, because I do care about the well-being of newborns.  However, I would have no ability to prevent them from doing these things.
So a perfectly healthy 9 1/2 month pregnant mother who is carrying a perfectly healthy child asks for an abortion, do you give it to her?
I don't know. I'm not a physician. That's precisely why someone educated needs to make that decision. You tell me. What are the risk factors in pregnancy? What condition or set of conditions could kill the mother, making an abortion medically necessary? My wife had one miscarriage and then two trouble free pregnancies, so I'm not really familiar with the potential complications. These statements are incompatible. The fetus, being that is a human being, is your patient. Most of your pregnant patients are concerned with bringing their unborn child into this world alive, so it is your responsibility to do everything within your power to do that. Until the child is born, you are its doctor, are you not? When my wife and I went in for her OB visits during both her pregnancies, we discussed her health and the baby's. My wife and the baby were our reasons for being there and being there so often. Only once the baby is born, do they become the pediatrician's patient.
This is why I've become frustrated in this post: the shift between could and necessary.  Many conditions could kill a pregnant person.  In fact, people without any risk factors except being pregnant can die from pregnancy. They're not incompatible at all!  I care about your well-being, yet you are not my patient.  If I have a patient who wants to reproduce in the future, I care about her fallopian tubes.  If I have a patient who doesn't want to reproduce, I might cut them out. Like I've said before, yes, I serve my patient's interest by protecting their fetal well-being.  But the fetus is not my patient. I'm going to be honest, there's a degree to which this is semantic.  I know high-risk OB specialists who are fond of saying, "we have two patients!" and others who are fond of saying "our patient is [the pregnant person], not [the fetus]."  (We will often say "mom" and "baby" to mean these things in the context of a desired pregnancy.)  Certainly for technical purposes (legal, billing, etc.) I have one patient.
So should my wife and I have aborted in both cases, to ensure her safety? Were we foolhardy in continuing pregnancies that had a chance, however small, of killing her? You're not answering my question, which is very telling. Yes, pregnancy has some inherent risks. Every time we leave the house we take risks. But you and I both know, as I stated earlier, the vast, vast number of pregnancies end with a healthy birth and no lasting harm to the mother at all. When we choose to engage in sex, we are acknowledging the risks that come with it, including getting pregnant. It is not ethical of me to then destroy a life created by virtue of a choice I made, simply for my own convenience. Then I'm glad you weren't our OB. The one we used, a mother of four herself, referred our unborn children like the treasures they were. She did not, as you seem to, treat them as something to either be kept or discarded, depending on a whim.
No — your wife chose to take that risk. Even for my high-risk patients, I have never told anybody that they should abort. I have also never told anybody that they shouldn’t abort. Do you think that I practice OB like some caricature? Gleefully chortling during ultrasounds, “your parasite is growing normally!” Or do you think that maybe I can recognize when a pregnancy represents somebody’s hopes and dreams, and treat it with the same care they show it?

And it’s this attitude that made me seek out a prolife obgyn. I am so happy that with my second child I had a doctor who acknowledged my child as a human being with rights. I can’t imagine that you really mean this. So if the baby had a treatable prenatal condition would you treat her or not? I don’t think or I certainly hope you misspoke when you wrote this.
If that acknowledgement is important to you, great, I'm glad you have a doctor you were happy with.  A lot of my OB patients in the past have been Catholic and very pro-life; I've never felt difficulty having a good doctor-patient relationship with them. I would offer the treatment to the pregnant person.
You would physically treat the pregnant person? No, you would physically treat the baby. Talk about breaking down lines of communicate.
I lol'd.
Glad I could make you laugh.
Then that's an attitude you need to address. The health of the child also needs to be taken into consideration.
I didn't say it wasn't taken into consideration, I said that they're not my patient.  My patient is the pregnant person.  When one of their healthcare priorities is delivering a healthy neonate, then that's one of my priorities.
You should be concerned for the child's health regardless of what the mother's priorities are.
I mean, I know that you're not pro-choice, but you also know that I am, so...

Nah, I'm alright thanks.
A little bit more than “emotional strain,” a little bit less than “damn I have two dead patients now”
Now that's the basis for a definitive guideline right there.
If a pregnant woman came in, at 25 weeks, and said she didn't want to be pregnant anymore since she has a vacation coming up in two days, and requests that you induce labor, would you do it?
Do you ask this as a gotcha, or with a desire to understand?
Question unanswered. Sorry to be obnoxious but it's weird of you to get so defensive when you constantly ask us questions on here. Edit: I do sincerely want to know.
I mulled over a couple of answers before I decided that it would help to set the tone first. I'm not opposed to things that happen to fetuses that make them never become newborns.  I am opposed (not categorically, but opposed) to things that happen to fetuses that make them become worse newborns. Outside of our disagreement regarding fetal personhood, does that make sense?
It makes sense but it doesn't seem to line up with your views on autonomy or your claim that only the pregnant person is a patient.
You're right, it does conflict with my views on autonomy. When I give examples, I'm generally thinking of a specific patient I've had.  Patients have goals, and I offer them options and help them figure out which one meets those goals. Your example (25 weeks) has a (somewhat contrived) goal of not being pregnant. I only have three options to offer: Continued gestation with a goal of term delivery. Termination and delivery/D&E now. Induction, with delivery of a neonate who would be highly likely to have severe disabilities that could have been avoided. I don't like that third option.  I'm not going to offer it.  I'm balancing nonmaleficence (not doing harmful things) with autonomy (letting patients decide).  I don't see feticide as maleficence when it is requested. This is my earnest attempt to make my reasoning accessible to somebody who does believe in fetal personhood (which I presume you do).  I know that you disagree with my values and my conclusion, but does the rest make sense? I can care about people that don't exist yet, and I can care about people who aren't my patient.  The potential newborn is both.

I am 100% against abortion in any situation, including this one. However, I support lifesaving treatment for the mother even if treatment endangers the child's life. Did she even want an abortion, or are prochoicers jumping on her death to further their cause? "Her body wasn't ready for the pregnancy" is vague. What does that mean exactly? Was she too small for the baby to be born? Then they could have done a c-section or delivered the child earlier. Was it something not related to her age that could have happened to a 20 year old mother? Then there must be a call for better maternal care in Peru, not abortion. The solution is never killing an innocent child.
I think that there's not nearly enough information to come to an informed conclusion. Was there really no other way to save her life? Did she even want an abortion in the first place?
This was posted in here recently. Did she and her family want an abortion? It wasn't stated in the article.
If it's between the life of the mother and the life of the child where one will die, I'm okay with abortion in this instance. This is luckily an extremely rare occurrence.
There isn't a situation where abortion could have saved her life, that early delivery wouldn't. Killing the child doesn't save her life, ending the pregnancy does.
I wonder if a c-section was an option. A link to the source I feel would clear a lot up to develop an informed opinion.
Well, prior to viability, an early delivery is an abortion.  It's just safer to end the pregnancy in ways that don't result in an intact delivery -- i.e. D&E rather than induction.
Considering that she lived to full term and only died in labour, it's doubtful she could have only been saved by ending the pregnancy before viability. Taking action to save the mother which results in the death of the child is not equivalent to taking action to kill the child which results in saving the mother. Morality is not consequentialist.
Are you saying that, even in a case (at, say, fourteen weeks) in which ending a pregnancy is something you would find morally acceptable, you would want it to be required to be done in a more dangerous way?
Yes, not because it is more dangerous, but because taking any action to kill an innocent person is wrong (even with good intentions), but taking action to save someone is not (even if with a bad secondary effect). Age of the unborn child is irrelevant to his/her moral worth.
Do you see a difference in moral weight between methotrexate and slapingectomy for ectopic pregnancy?
Yes, that is a classic example.
I have responses, but they exceed my self-imposed limits as an outside voice here.
ok
How is a D&E safer than a vaginal birth?
It has a lower risk of death, for one.
Really? Can you provide stats for this? My questions was actually about the mechanism that makes it safer? As far as I understand they are exactly the same thing except one kills the baby before evacuation.
Yes, but I'm very busy this week and can't be bothered to grab them right now. They're not.  Let's say we've got a fetal demise at 22 weeks -- a situation that you and I have no moral dispute about.  I would offer this patient a couple of management options, and they would include D&E and induction and delivery.  D&E would be lower-risk.  The mechanism by which it is lower risk includes: It's faster.  Less time spent with an open cervix.  Less time between when the uterus starts and bleeding and gets emptied.  This reduces bleeding and risk of infection. You don't need to get as much dilation, because you don't need an intact delivery. Less risk of retained products of conception (like the placenta). This isn't a disputed part of ob/gyn, and it's not ideologically motivated -- it applies even to cases of fetal demise.  We discovered that D&Es were safer than induction in the 70s.
Yes but forcing a vagina open and using tools to tear out the baby increases the chances of infection and leaving fetal parts inside so, I'm sceptical about this claim.
It doesn’t, though... it reduces the risk of infection or retained products. Hey, for cases of fetal demise at, say, 18-24 weeks, why do you think OB/gyns recommend D&E over induction?
I don't know that they do or that any of it is true. I have no choice but to take your word for it though right now. I can see some practical reasons to advocate for it. Quicker procedure. Patient under general anaesthetic so easier for OB. I would think the risk of general anaesthetic alone would be a reason to opt for a vaginal birth. Anyway, it wouldn't be the first time doctors have gotten things wrong. Which is why I'd like to actually see the research first hand. Do they follow up for a long time with the patient. Or cut off the study immediately or very close to the delivery. Lots of things need to be considered. I'm just sceptical about, that's all I'm saying. I will have to look into it more.

This is absolute nonsense, you clearly have zero unbiased knowledge of how abortions are carried out.
Whatever dude. Considering I've been pregnant 4 times, underwent two D&Cs myself and held a good friends hand through an early induction I'd say you're the one who doesn't know what you are talking about. But everyone is entitled to their opinion. Even you.

Could you give an example of a scenario that matches that description?
Isn't this story involving a 14 year old who's body "wasn't ready to give birth" a pretty clear cut example? I could also see haemorrhage, infection, or eclampsia being possible life-threatening conditions. What would you consider a life-threatening  condition if you were to agree to such an abortion limit?
Only in hindsight.  "Not ready to give birth" isn't really a diagnosis.  It's something that's hard to argue with when somebody has died.  It's certainly true that people at extremes of reproductive age (read: young teens and late 40s) are at higher risk of preeclampsia, so that could have been why.  It could be that she had a very small pelvis and she should not have been labored... but here in the US we've moved way away from clinical pelvimetry because we're so often wrong and it leads to unnecessary cesareans. Does that make sense? Let us take them in order. This is a broad category.  I'll assume that you mean hemorrhage related to the pregnancy.  Typically this would occur in a miscarriage or after delivery, or as part of a placental abruption that would require emergent delivery or it would result in a fetal demise. Of what? The vast majority of cases of eclampsia occur at term or post-partum.  It can occur after 20 weeks, so let's stick with this one. We've reduced the incidence of eclampsia significantly by recognizing and treating preeclampsia.  If somebody has preeclampsia with severe features at 20 weeks, can I offer them an abortion? If they have severe uncontrolled hypertension with nephrotic syndrome and had preeclampsia in a prior pregnancy and are obese (every risk factor for preeclampsia that I can think of at the moment... oh, throw on that they're 48yo, I guess) at 8 weeks' gestation, can I offer them an abortion then?  Or do I have to wait for them to get more kidney damage and have a riskier abortion because of their advanced gestation? Do you see why these aren't clear-cut? I get why you would want to turn the question around, but I'm not the person to ask, because I disagree with the idea that pregnancies can be divided into "life-threatening" and "non-life-threatening."
Well, where the only results of going through with the birth would either kill the mother or baby, when c-section would also cause death.
Yes, I can parse English.  You said that it's a rare scenario -- i.e., that it happens sometimes.  Can you give me an example of what medical conditions result in this scenario?
I'm not a doctor, so unfortunately I don't know the specific details of why someone who be highly sensitive to having a baby, be it size, age, or a specific health issue. From what I do know, it happens rarely and seems to be a case by case basis. Also, what did your first sentence have to do with anything?
For the patient in this article, I guarantee it was not possible in the first trimester to say "this person will definitely die if they carry to term."
I don't have any article to go on, so I don't know the details of this. If they didn't know until a week before birth and c-section was not an option, to save a life, I would say, unfortunately, you must take a life of an unborn child. One person will die no matter what if that is what the case was.
Real life doesn't contain trolley problems like this. Here's more or less an actual patient I had once: "well, this patient's creatinine has doubled in the last week, and she's at 20 weeks, and we haven't been able to control her hypertension since she came off of her lisinopril.  If we continue the pregnancy, she'll probably get renal failure and need to go on dialysis (dialysis has a five-year survival rate of 35%).  Fetus is already falling off of its growth curve with asymmetric IUGR." I wonder if people here would have allowed her abortion. Hey, can I ask -- what do you do for work?
Seems it does but we clearly disagree, and its possible, just depends on the details since it happens so rarely. Also what does that have to do with anything?
Not in the way you're phrasing them.  I can't say for sure that this patient would die if she continued the pregnancy.  Would you permit this person to have an abortion? It's fine, you don't have to say it.  I was going to try and use an analogy to explain what this conversation is like for me.

Why do you dismiss every difficult scenario by saying it's rare and refusing to answer on that basis? There are many of these type of scenarios, they add up to much more than "rarely." And if you're the woman in that situation, it doesn't matter how rare it is. Why do the details matter? What details are missing from this scenario, what are the additional details that would let you make this decision for someone else? You know what's best for every woman in every situation so address this situation.

If doctors felt her life was in danger I support an abortion in that situation. I only oppose elective abortions, not medically necessary ones.
Who do you think gets to make the determination of danger? What level of danger makes an abortion medical as opposed to elective? Do you realize that this statement makes you pro-choice?
If you think that makes me pro-choice, so be it. I am less concerned about labels and more about outcomes. I think we can draw a line between medically necessary abortions as determined by a doctor, and elective abortions which are done for convenience. I also think it’s a much more tenable position politically.
Hey Y'allThe pro choice side is way to quick to label us as sexist or misogynist. However, when thinking through the issue I can see where they are coming from.My question is, how can we as a movement make sure that our intentions and results are not negative towards feminism and women's rights?Here are some concerns people have brought up to me that I think have merit. When discussing legality of abortion, we often talk about how abortion is bad for the mother. However, others have brought up to me that illegalizing something because we think it might be bad for women and therefore women should be barred for their own good is rather sexist. I agree with that. I think when we focus on those things we are implying that women cannot make their own choices.Secondly, I had a friend tell me that she believes that pro life beliefs are not inherently sexist, however the way we dismiss the autonomy argument and use words such as "inconvenient" to describe crisis pregnancies imply we do not respect a woman's autonomy nor the physical strain pregnancy can put on a person. I have to agree with that one too. I think using a word such as "inconvenient" to describe pregnancy greatly down plays the physical changes that happen during pregnancy and the social/career affects the pregnancy might have, as well as the mental anguish it may cause.She also mentioned having to be careful when discussing this issue because women's rights to autonomy have been disrespect and discarded in the past. Again, I think she is right.So how can we make sure that we are not being sexist? At the core of this for many of us is the baby, so I know that it can be hard to fathom that are arguments have anything bad about them. I just wanted to start a discussion on this.
Who is being sexist: the one who dehumanizes and supports the killing of little girls before they're even born, or the one who defends their right to life? Expecting people to not kill babies is not sexist.
Right but it is more than just not killing babies, you should know this. This is what my friend was talking about. When someone reduces the controversy surrounding abortion to just whether or not someone would kill a baby it completely disregards the woman, her life, and her experiences. Look, most of us here believe abortion is unjust, which I think is true. However, we must remember that this moral dilemma revolves around the right to life and the right to autonomy. In part, this is about whether or not we think the right to life includes the right to use someone else's body or self to maintain life. It is totally okay to say (and this is my stance) that the right to life does entail the right to use someone else's body to maintain your life, particularly if the other person's choices put the dependent in that situation. However, it is not okay to talk about this as if abortion means going out of ones way completely to commit evil with no reason. There are reasons, this is complex. Additionally, while gendered abortion is a huge issue, most people here stand against abortion as a whole and do not work to eradicate gender-based abortions, instead, they work to eradicate abortion as a whole with ending gender-based abortion as a side effect. Just because something may benefit or harm girls does not mean it is a gendered issue. I am on your side, I just think we need to be more aware of these complexities.
I'm gonna be honest, I don't think any sane person really cares about the woman and her experiences enough so to justify murder. Nobodys reducing anything down except you. You're literally making the murder of the baby seem less than it is just because the woman has feelings and her life with a baby will suck. You really can't argue with someone who tries to justify murder because there is a billion things you could say, but at the end of the day it's simply murder....
How? People rarely get out of bed in the morning and decide "I want to commit evil today for no reason." Murderers, rapists, pedophiles etc have their reasons and often feel justified about what they do. Those complexities do not affect the morality of their actions. Evil is evil, it's simple. That's like saying "you aren't helping women because you also want to end male sex trafficking." If it's only feminist to ignore the male victims, I don't want to be feminist.
Because it denies that there are two parties involved and that both of them have a set of rights and for one of them that set of rights is going to violate. I think a lot of people bypass the concern for the pregnant person's autonomy. When autonomy is ignored, it's easy to say abortion is evil. You are right about the evil thing. I do not think I got my point across very well here. It is like how when soldiers kill in war is tends to not be considered murder because they have a reason to kill that some people will say is important enough to kill others over. Why might this sometimes be considered just? Like if country A were to be invaded by country B. If country B will not kill anyone from country A, only enslave them, take their land, and overall bring down the quality of life for citizens of country A. Is it just for country A to attack and kill those in country B? If that makes any sense, then those are the sort of reasons I am talking about. Lastly, I do not really understand your last point. I do think feminism is also about helping men. However, if a group of people needs water, I'm gonna give them water regardless of their gender. So I would not consider that a gender or a feminist issue, but I do think feminism should be concerned with making a level playing field for all genders in all realms.
We don't bypass concern, in fact we show concern for both mother and child equally. Abortion involves a mother violating her child's rights. Pregnancy is never a child violating the mother's rights by murder. In the worst case, the violation is done by child's father in the case of rape. No, but it would be just for A to defend themselves against B invaders, even with lethal force. B is not innocent. Say a man tries to rape a woman. Even if he doesn't try to kill her, the woman is just in killing him to prevent the rape. He is not innocent. However, she is not just in killing a child because the child is innocent. If giving people water to save them is not feminist enough because it does not level the playing field of genders or whatever, I reject feminism.
Okay, that makes sense. My question, and this has been plaguing me a bit, is so does intent of harm determine whether or not someone is innocent? So like if someone attacks you because they are drugged by someone else or otherwise impaired in a way out of their control and is no longer able to think or act as themselves, is it okay to use lethal force against them if they attack you?
Before going into this, let's remember that less than 1% of abortions are done to save the mother's life. Abortion is nearly always because the mother simply doesn't want to be pregnant and to a lesser extent, because the child has a disability. Your argument and the following response only apply to that <1% It depends. At one extreme you have a grown person violently shaking, hitting and beating a baby. His intent is to make the baby shut up and stop crying, not to kill or even hurt the baby. But clearly, he is not innocent of murder. On the other extreme, a hiker is walking on a steep cliff when suddenly the rock crumbles and he falls, striking and killing a person in the valley below. Clearly, this is a tragedy for both people and the hiker is innocent. In between the extremes lies the realm of people you describe. The mentally ill person who kills because the voices tell him to, the child soldier who shoots down civilians because he's ordered to but also likes it, etc. Unborn children whose existence threatens the mother's life solidly fit into the second category, completely innocent. There is no intent at all. In that case, every reasonable effort must be made to save both lives. t is necessary, it would be moral to save the mother's life even if doing so results in the likely or certain death of the child.
This is a huge string of red herrings.
Why do you think that?
Because "our intentions and results" have nothing to do with whether abortion should be permitted? A lot of the intentions behind the abolition of slavery had more to do with preserving the Union than the rights of the slaves themselves, and the results of abolition included a negative impact on the economies of states that relied upon slave labor. That doesn't mean abolition was a bad idea. Let's say, purely for the sake of argument, that banning abortion ends up being "negative towards feminism". Maybe women actually are so fundamentally incapable that they can't compete in the workforce without being allowed to indiscriminately kill their own children. At the end of the day, so what? There are lots of ways that one group could be made better off at the expense of another group, but that doesn't justify actually doing it.
Women's rights aren't really in question here, fetuses' rights are. If a group killed teenagers for being abusive to their parents, but also offered counseling, would that make it better? No. The abortion argument is about the personhood of the fetus. Plain and simple. If you belive the fetus is a person, aborting it is murder.
So you don't see any conflict in rights here? This actually genuinely surprises me.
The only conflict in rights arises if the woman was raped or was otherwise forced into becoming pregnant. Otherwise she made her choices knowing reality.
So because the mother was raped is suddenly acceptable to kill an innocent baby?
Contraceptives. The vast majority of woman have access to this and they have the right to practice safe sex as they please. The only right these women should not have access to is murder instruments. Don't get it twisted and don't try victimizing these woman who brought this situation on themselves. They have no right to another life and that's that. It always gets me mad when I hear a pro-choicer utter the words "equality" or "rights" because the hypocrisy in that is astonishing.
Right. I am not trying to victimize these women. I am just saying there a conflict between autonomy and life here, and both deserve respect
Define autonomy. Is it the right to do whatever you want regardless of whether you're killing a child? I don't believe autonomy nullifies or overrides another person's right to life. Then again, how exactly are pregnant women not autonomous? I really think that entire argument is complete horseshit all the way through.
Nobody who relies on murder as a way out of a situation deserves respect, and it doesn't make you sexist to stand up against murder as well. I couldn't care less what the situation is... Murder is murder stop twisting it.
Coming from a pro choice perspective I would suggest that the best thing to avoid the appearance of sexism is that the pro life movement would have to in an organized manner distance itself from the sexist views that many people who call themselves pro life, hold. While at the same time abstaining from 1 propaganda and misinformation, 2 appeals to emotion, 3 reliance on religious arguments 4 re using faulty talking points that have already been refuted to death. There could be a reasonable pro life argument that can hold its ground in philosophical debate but I have yet to find it. Ironically I see a lot of malice in the pro-life perspective, while the vast majority genuinely believe that they are trying to save lives a vocal minority just see outlawing abortion as a means to punish “whores” for having sex, and to generally control women. Also it would also help if the pro life movement advocated for comprehensive sex education and contraceptives as this is the most effective way to prevent unwanted pregnancy and therefore abortions. Often many in the pro life camp are against this which is contradictory to the goals of the movement and gives the impression that many pro-life people don’t actually care about protecting babies.
I completely agree

Very bad Trump.
yup
Of course this happens
State funded genocide.
Again!? The Republicans have the white house and a senate majority;  what could possibly be in the way of denying PP half a billion a year at this point!? Glad I didn't vote for Trump OR the somehow-even-worse Hillary, but I'm highly disappointed in the the administration yet again.
You need 60 votes in the Senate to pass a budget.  We only have 51 (which means pandering to the Democrats who act as solid bloc in voting for what PP wants).
I wonder how much planned parenthood will spend to elect Democrats
Good.

I totally agree, although if they couldn't use misleading or euphemistic slogans, they wouldn't be able to use slogans at all.
Excellent, excellent article.
Their game is all misdirection by ad hominem and making themselves look like the benevolent group.
I just want to give a perspective on what we mean when we say 'trust women'. It's not that we're trying to say - abortions are moral because women are inherently moral, so trust women. I live in Ireland and am currently campaigning for a repeal of the amendment which prohibits abortion in almost all circumstances, so often I hear people say that if we legalize abortion women will use it as birth control and wont be 'careful' anymore. That's not a statement about the morality of abortion, or the personhood of the foetus. So, in response, I might say - that's not true, the choice to have an abortion is difficult and emotional and not something women take lightly, so trust them to make that decision. If someone were to say that they believe abortion is murder, then me saying 'trust women' would make no sense. We all have our catchy slogans for marches - the pro life side say 'love both', we say 'trust women'. Neither are arguments in their own rights, but that's campaigning for a referendum. What can you do; reading out an essay through a megaphone wouldn't really be effective.
But that's not the pro-life argument. The pro-life argument isn't "we're against abortion because we think women will use it as birth control." Rather, it's "we're against abortion because it kills a human being unjustly." Totally irrelevant. Whether women take it lightly or seriously doesn't matter. Elective abortion is wrong. (And fwiw, some women absolutely take abortion lightly so I would at least qualify your statement if you want it to be true). Abortion isn't ok just as long as women are taking it seriously.
Yes, I agree. It doesn't address the core pro-life argument at all, which is why it generally isn't used as a counter to pro-life arguments (in my experience). It's used when relevant, such as the example I gave. As I said - "If someone were to say that they believe abortion is murder, then me saying 'trust women' would make no sense.". It's not a counter-argument to the pro-life campaign, it's just a talking point when having conversations with people who are on the fence, if it were to become relevant.
That makes more sense then, sorry if I misunderstood. In my experience people who say "I just don't think abortion should be used as a form of birth control" are pro-choicers. Those are the only people I hear saying that.
No worries :) I think they are too - but with this referendum there's no room for a middle ground which is really tough for both sides I think.
Trust women to do what, though? To make the right decision? Using that as an argument against banning abortion presupposes that abortion is sometimes the right decision.
Well, yes. This isn't an argument that will sway hardcore pro-lifers but in campaigns like this, your main goal is to sway the middle ground, who in my experience are fine with abortions in hard cases like rape, incest, FFA and risk to life and health of the mother. Trusting women with the decision to have an abortion is one of many things to bring up when we're talking to these people, because a lot of the time it's not necessarily abortion-the-procedure that they have moral quandaries with (depending on the individual). I don't expect it's going to make any difference to people on this subreddit, but I just wanted to give some perspective on why it's a part of larger pro-choice campaigns.
FFA?
Fatal Foetal Abnormality, when the foetus has some defect that will lead to death before or shortly after birth (doesn't apply to disabilities that aren't fatal).
The vast majority of abortions aren't any of those "hard cases", though.
No, they're not. But the current situation in Ireland means there is no leeway with those hard cases: unless you are most certainly going to die, there is nothing healthcare professionals in Ireland can do besides refer you to the UK. There is no way to change that without a yes vote. They may not be the majority of abortions but they are incredibly difficult for all involved and deserve discussion.
But the idea of "trusting women" in this context implies legalizing all abortions, and then just hoping no one uses that outside of the "hard" cases.
A lot of women do take abortion lightly though, even if not the majority. There are also women who take marriage lightly, and childbearing lightly, so I don't get why prochoicers often assume abortion is some special exception.
I mean speaking from experience, I'm sure there are exceptions, very few do. It's a difficult, painful procedure and often a very emotional one. From the outside what seems to be a frivolous decision is often one with a lot of thought behind it. Particularly in Ireland, the culture around abortion necessitates that one can't take it lightly, if even from a financial perspective. This isn't an argument against pro-life beliefs, just something to talk about.
Well in the US a lot of pro-choice advocates talk about abortion as if it were like getting an appendix removed or wisdom teeth extracted. My wisdom tooth surgery was painful and unpleasant, but it wasn't a difficult or emotional decision to make. The way you describe abortion, "a difficult painful procedure that nobody takes lightly" and "safe legal and rare" used to be the standard argumentation of pro-choice advocates but recently (like in the past 5-10 years or so) the pro-choice movement has been moving away from that type of language and becoming more celebratory of abortion. Like sharing "abortion stories" where women describe abortion as the easiest decision they ever made like choosing a meal at a restaurant.
Yeah I think that is where the American pro choice movement has really gone off the rails. I can understand abortion being legal, but that doesnt mean its lighthearted or not a big deal.
I can't speak for the American pro choice movement, only for the Irish one. If you look up the Facebook page "repeal the eighth in her shoes" that might give you some perspective on what our 'abortion stories look like - painful, hard (and made harder by our laws) but the right decision for those involved. Perhaps if this referendum passes our movement will become like the American movement but for now, it's not.
Well like you said, I don't view elective abortion as the right decision even if made seriously. But I'm sure you're right that in an environment where abortion is illegal, it's less likely to be done flippantly compared to an environment where it's been legal for 40 years.

Why do you think this article was a waste?  What do you disagree with?
I apologise, comment was meant for another post... deleted.

So if they end up deciding that pro-life organizations have a 1st amendment right to not post abortion info...........does that mean pro-choice organizations no longer have to read the pro-life script provided to them by their states?
Here are some other articles about this story: mercurynews.com: Can pro-life clinics remain silent on abortion services? – The Mercury News Washington Post: Is California protecting women or forcing clinics to promote abortion? Supreme Court to decide. U.S. News & World Report: US Top Court Mulls Free Speech Fight Over 'Crisis Pregnancy Centers' USA Today: Abortion debate returns to Supreme Court in California case ABC KABC: Abortion, free speech collide in Supreme Court dispute involving California pregnancy center mediamatters.org: Myths and facts about California's pro-choice law regarding fake health clinics jezebel.com: None mysanantonio.com: High court could hinder ‘fake’ centers thecut.com: All About the SCOTUS Case on Crisis Pregnancy Ceners theitem.com: Abortion, free speech collide in Supreme Court dispute I am a bot trying to encourage a balanced news diet. These are all of the articles I think are about this story. I do not select or sort articles based on any opinions or perceived biases, and neither I nor my creator advocate for or against any of these sources or articles. It is your responsibility to determine what is factually correct.
An argument of many pro choicers is that a person is not required to keep another person alive. For example, if a person has needs a blood transfusion to survive, no person is required to give them that blood transfusion to save them. With abortion, they'll say that the same rule applies; that at any moment you should be allowed to stop providing for the baby, whether or not the baby can survive on its own. What do you think is a good refute for this?
It's not that simple.  If you're on a hike and you see another hiker get attacked by bees and they fall to the ground saying "my epi pen is in my pocket! Help! " and you just stand there or walk away and a witness tells police that,  you'll go to jail.
Interesting, do you know which law this applies to? Or perhaps a situation where this has happened?
Giving someone their epi pen is not a good comparison to pregnancy. Pregnancy is much more involved and requires more of a risk on the behalf of the pregnant person.
There's a difference between not providing medical help and using drugs and/or dismemberment to murder them. Do you not see it?
No, i agree with you. I was just trying to see what everyone thinks is the best refute to this. My problems with this logic is three fold: In one case, a person is dying of natural causes, and you, an unaffiliated individual, should not be required to give up your body to save them. In the case of abortion, if left to natural processes, the baby will live. Abortion is action, the other case in inaction. There is a big moral difference there. It’s not like if a women felt she didn’t want continue giving up her body for this baby, she could just seperate herself from the baby, leaving the baby’s death to natural causes. That’s not how abortion works. Abortion is usually done, as you said, with drugs and/or dismemberment. Again, abortion is the actionable killing of another human being, wheras a blood transfusion requires inaction and involves a persons dying by natural means. This logic, in the end of the day, puts the value of life at viability. This is because if put into practice, only babies which are capably of living autonomously outside of the womb will survive. The problem with viability is it varies by region. A baby may beable to survive outside the womb at 20 weeks in a coastal American hospital. The same may not be said for a child born in rural Alabama, or in 2nd and 3rd world countries around the world, due to the lack in technology. Is a 20 week old child a human being in California, but not in rural Alabama?
Yes, I fully agree with your points as well. Here's one more thing to consider. There are millions of unwanted frozen embryos in the world, mostly as a result of IVF. Do I, as a woman of reproductive age, have the responsibility to adopt as many of them as possible in order to save their lives? No, just as I don't have the responsibility to donate blood to save someone's life. However, if I am pregnant I have no right to kill the child, just like I have no right to kill anyone else unjustly.
Well if you remove a fetus before viability with or without killing it first it still dies in the end. It is actually possible to extract a fetus without killing it but until the technology to sustain a fetus outside the womb is perfected the end result is still death. So why make the moral distinction between the two if the outcome is the same?
Well, firstly, I think my first point is the central logic refuting that argument. I think that alone disproves it. I'm not even the one making the moral distinction (though i believe it to be correct). It is the pro abortion side that says that "it is your right to cease keeping alive another person using your body for life." They use that logic as a stark distinction of the forceful killing of another person. And of course they would be correct in saying that. It is very different if I stab you and you die, than if you die from natural causes when I refused to give you a blood transfusion. The outcome is the same, but the morality of my actions are vastly different.
It was this statement that gave me the impression that in your opinion it would be more moral if a woman could separate herself from a fetus without killing it, and then the fetus died later due to being unable to survive outside the womb. As opposed to the fetus dying first as it is with the abortion process and then being separated after. Something else I don’t understand about your argument is do you think abortion is closer to:“I stab you and you die” or “I refused to give you a blood transfusion”.
My central point was #1, which makes a distinction between action and inaction. The 2nd and 3rd points were as it relates to point #1. So even if abortion was done in a way where the baby dies by natural processes after operation by the mother, I still have a problem with it as it violates my #1. This is because in the case of a blood transfusion, the person is dying of natural causes, and the government can't compel you towards a positive action, especially as it relates to your body. However, with regard to abortion (even if the baby dies naturally after removal from the womb), the government isn't compelling you towards a positive action to save a life. Rather, it is inaction that will result in the preservation of life, and your positive action of removal of the fetus from the womb that will result in its death. This is not an arbitrary philosophical concept, but one that exists and is widely accepted is academic circles. You can read more about it here. But again, virtually all abortions are not done by removing the fetus from the womb, and then allowing it to die by natural causes. They are done by lethal drugs or dismemberment. While removing the fetus is possible without dismemberment, it requires invasive surgery, and wouldn't be a realistic choice for women looking to abort. EVEN IF IT WERE CHEAP, EASY, AND NON-INVASIVE, the actual act of cutting the umbilical chord and allowing the baby to die on its own shouldn't even qualify as "death by natural means" on its own, as cutting the umbilical chord runs contrary to the natural processes of a fetus. While we as grown individuals don't rely on our mothers' physically for life, fetuses do, and therefore the act of removing a fetus and allowing it to "die naturally" wouldn't be a natural death at all. I think it's exactly "I stab you and you die." No middle ground.
How is not giving the blood transfusion not an active choice? You choose to let the person die or you choose to save them, but you still choose. What you define as active or inactive choices seems arbitrary. When both options exist choosing to continue a pregnancy and choosing to end one are both active choices. This would only work if the person whom you are stabbing is putting your life and body in jeopardy, then you would be killing them in self defense. As pregnancy is not without sacrifice; it’s painful, uncomfortable, permanently alters the body, and can result in death or disability.
No, you’re misunderstanding me. With regard to blood transfusions, the person surviving requires positive action from you. With regard to abortion, the person surviving requires no action from you.  In the first case, it’s not immoral because you cant be forced to save everyone whos dying. If that were the case, the government could round people up and forcefully remove their kidneys so they could save people who are in need of a transplant. In the second case, that baby’s survival requires no action, no government compulsion. It is on course to be a sentient viable human life who has its entire life ahead of it. In the case where the mother’s life is in danger, neary all pro lifers believe in the right to abortion. However, whether or not pregnancy can be taxing on women, it doesn’t justify the murder of children.
choosing to continue a pregnancy is an act, the "surviving person" requires the action of your body gestating a fetus to term. In the second case the babies survival requires that the mother commit to the act of gestating the fetus to term, and since abortion procedures exist, if the mother does not want to commit carrying a fetus it would require government compulsion to make her continue the pregnancy Being pregnant is always a greater risk to ones life than not being pregnant. These risks are not 100% predictable, the mothers life is always in danger even if its 1% of risk its still there. So where do we draw the line, 25% chance of death, 50%, 99%, or 100%? Also ill say this for the third time today I will entertain the idea that the fetus is a person, however this does not mean that abortion is murder. Murder specifically applies to the unlawful killing of another person. Killing someone in self defense = not murder Killing the enemy in war = not murder Execution of criminals = not murder Aborting a fetus, who is a person = (as long as abortion is legal) is still not murder. Not all killings of persons are murder but all murders are killings of persons. Murder carries a different moral weight than other types of killing and lumping abortion in with murder is a cheap way to ascribe greater moral weight to abortion even though it is factually incorrect. Abortion is killing a person, while it doesn't sound as dramatic is a (slightly) harder claim to argue against, i would advise you leave it at that if you want to more effectively make your case.
Ok. You are going through mental gymnastics to try and disprove a pretty clear distinction between action and inaction. Even if you consider  carrying a baby an action like picking up a box in an action (which it is not because one is happening voluntarily and one involuntary by natural bodily functions), it still doesnt not change that an abortion is the actionable killing of another human life, in principle and in practice.  That is different than not giving a dying person a transplant becase you are not performing the actional killing of a human life, you are merely abstaining from giving your body up to save that person, which is different because Abortion is not “saving” (implying that person is dying of natural causes), it is you being the cause of death for that baby. The government compulsion that comes with banning abortion is the same government compulsion that dictates you cant kill your neighbor. The compulsion is not in carrying the baby, the compulsion is in not killing another human being, the byproduct being the mother carries the baby. And when assessing the risk, the vast majority of pregnancies do not result in the death of the mother. If the health is significantly at risk, abortion should be allowed. But thats not the norm. And the “murder is the unlawful killing” line means nothing. Arguing semantics mean nothing. If the 14th ammendment was repealed tomorrow, would me ending the life of a black guy not be murder? And if you dont like the word murder, fine, I can use “forceful killing of an innocent” instead happily.
I think the issue with the action vs no action thing is that practically, continuing a pregnancy requires more action than abortion. Unless the pregnant person doesn't go to the hospital at all during the pregnancy, but even then, childbirth is a huge action. However, philosophically I think you are right. I just do not think that really transfers into the real world in a very practical way. I'm on your side, but also, a kidney transplant can be less invasive than a pregnancy. Kidney transplant arent easy nor is it an in and out surgery with no further work. However, I think when looking at it even just physically, a pregnancy affects a person a lot more than a kidney transplant. I am not advocating for the government to strap anyone down, but when I think of this, it does give me pause in my pro-life ethic. Like if someone is responsible for a car crash and the other driver needs a kidney transplant to mitigate injuries they sustained. If I believe abortion should be illegal, why should I not think its okay for the government to forcibly remove someone's kidney? If I only think about it philosophically, I can answer that question with the positive action vs being passive. This mindset makes me quite comfortable, but then I have to consider that practically, having a kidney taken away has fewer consequences than not being allowed to end a pregnancy. I just rest on the action vs no action thing though, cause its true.
The action I'm referring to is action "in relation to the life of the baby." Whether or not carrying a baby requires action is irrelevant, just as it is with raising a born baby. Just because raising a baby requires action, that doesn't mean you can stick a fork in ur baby's neck. So again, when i talk about inaction and action, I'm speaking with regard to the baby's survival. With blood transfusions, a person is dying of natural causes, and your positive action would be required to save them. With abortion, a person is on course for survival, and your inaction ensures that baby survives. The government should force you to not be able to kill babies, the byproduct in this case being you carry your kid to term (unless the health of the mother is significantly at risk). The government shouldn't force you to give up your kidney because it is not your responsibility to save every dying person on the planet. Again, that's different from abortion because a) the baby is not dying, it is you that is killing b) forceful positive action requires you save that person, inaction ensures the survival of that baby You think that me strapping you down and stealing your kidney to save someone has fewer consequences than preventing the murder of children? Bodily autonomy ceases to exist when the life of another human being is at risk. That's why my right to bodily autonomy doesn't include punching you in the face.

This isn't necessarily true, though. Parents can't choose to starve their children, for instance.
They can choose to starve their children just because something is illegal doesn’t make it impossible.
That's like giving blood and saying it can't be used to save a life

That's the opposite of medicine.

It seems to me that the comic presents a great opportunity to prevent 8,080 abortions.
Lol I've literally had some prochoicer call me "American Taliban" on this subreddit.
You can see the ever so self indulged cartoonist sketching away and snickering to him or herself as they draw such ignorance
That comment section makes me cringe!
Hey, look, I'm willing to tell you how to put me out of business. Reduce income inequality, increase sex ed, make highly-effective contraceptives free to all.  I'll be out of business within ten, fifteen years. We in medicine like putting ourselves out of business.  In OB/gyn, we do the delivery, and then we encourage postpartum contraception.  We do the pap smears, and we hand out the Gardisil vaccines.  We put in retropubic slings, and we teach people how to do Kegel exercises. Our infectious disease doctors encourage vaccinations.  Our cardiology doctors encourage weight loss and exercise.  Our pulmonologists encourage smoking cessation.  And yeah, our family planning specialists... help people prevent pregnancy. Why are you only suspicious of that last one?
Suspicious of what? Contraception? I never said I was. And in what world are opposing abortion and working towards a more equitable society mutually exclusive? This post was mostly to mock the willful ignorance of our positions and vitriol in the comments of that thread. Also, I found it amusing that they represented Planned Parenthood in anyway as an anti-abortion organization.
Income inequality is way lower in the UK, birth control is free, healthcare is free and I received progressively more comprehensive sex ed in grade 6, 8 and 11. Please, tell me why I had classmates who were having babies or abortions? Why does the country have such a high abortion rate, and teen pregnancy rate in general? Shouldn't British abortionists be out of business by now?
The UK's Gini coefficient is between Tajikistan and Estonia.  It's the highest Gini coefficient in Western Europe.  Also, it has the highest teen pregnancy rate in Western Europe.  Oh, look, though, the rate has gone down with increased LARC use: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4247139/ Why do you think your classmates were having so many teen pregnancies?
I don't know why. I was having sex too but using two types of birth control (condom + pill) and never even had a scare. I do know that I was taught "birth control, morning after pill, abortion" and motherhood or adoption never came up. I also think that data is pretty skewed due to London (the inner London city with a bunch of billionaires) but anyhow having moved there as an immigrant who couldn't speak English and as the child of a single mother, I can tell you that anyone can have a good comfortable life in the UK REGARDLESS of their skill. So why is income a reason for abortion in your mind? The government bends over backwards for young struggling families (free housing, tax returns, child benefits, free baby supplies)
I think it's a little more complicated than just income.  I think it's really purpose. Have you ever tried to convince a teenager to do something because it's good for them?  It's tough.  What makes it easier is if they have a sense of purpose. I make a lot of small talk with my patients.  For the middle and high schoolers, I'll ask them what their favorite subject is in school, what they do for fun, and what they want to be when they grow up.  If they have a favorite subject, if they do something for fun that isn't just "hang out with friends," and they know what they want to do in life... they're going to want contraception. If they don't, they're going to say, "oh, I won't need that," or "condoms," or "I'll be more careful."  They're more likely to decline the Gardisil vaccine, too. This applies across a lot of things, it's not just teens and contraception.  My older patients?  Sometimes their purpose is their children.  Much easier to motivate them to take care of their health. It's not always income.  It's more... an ingrained sense of the potential for upward mobility.  Children of immigrants tend not to have this problem as much. No statistics, just what I'm seeing.
Yeah because immigrants appreciate the opportunity that (insert country) has provided them rather than crying that they're not upper middle class, or famous, or that they don't have an iPhone x in 10th grade. Really none of that has anything to do with abortion, it has everything to do with culture and upbringing. Schools should teach kids how to parent so that they don't perpetuate that awful cycle (spanking, narcissism and general lack of emotional availability are also things we need to get rid of and teach potential parents about)
I kind of feel you're just replying to the second-to-last sentence of my post and not to the body of it.  My real point was the sense of purpose.  I wouldn't describe my purposeless patients as crying about things.  If anything they're resigned.
Why do we have to assign our teens a sense of purpose to prevent them having sex or unprotected sex? I don't understand how it relates to abortion at all. And my point was that somebody who appreciates the chance to be middle class and comfortable doesn't need you to GIVE them a sense of purpose, they feel lucky to have the opportunities they do and they seek out their own success.
Even here in the uk most teenagers are not having as much sex as you’d imagine from the media. Of my friend group in school 2 out of 7 had sex prior to going to university and according to recorded statistics the rate of sexual activity among teens has declined since I was one. I don’t think it’s a given if you have an interest or plans you need contraception because you are more likely than not not having sex.
There are reasons to be skeptical (constant pro-abortion lobbying, smear campaigns against pregnancy resource centers, feeding disinformation to patients to get them to abort, etc.), but ultimately it doesn't matter. A group offering to execute unruly teenagers does not become a good group by also offering family counseling sessions to try to avoid that.
"A group offering to execute unruly teenagers does not become a good group by also offering family counseling sessions to try to avoid that." This is fucking brilliant and one of the best analogies I've ever seen.
The things you mention could reduce the abortion rate, but it's not guaranteed to put you or anyone else out of business. Britain's abortion rate has been stable for decades despite having completely free contraception, sex ed, and an excellent universal health care system.
I'm not an expert on care in Britain, but this came up quickly: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4247139/figure/f3-ijwh-6-961/ If I practiced in Britain, I might have more to say.  I practice in the US.  I see a lot of unplanned pregnancies, and this is where I see them coming from.
That chart is only the under 18 abortions, which have been trending down, whereas abortions for women over 30 in the UK have been trending up. The overall abortion rate has therefore been stable. I'm not sure how free contraception would work differently here than it works there. If free contraception would put all abortion doctors out of business than Britian should be abortion free, but it's not by a long shot.
No birth control is 100% effective. And are you saying higher economic class people don't get abortions? Lol. They want them just as badly, after all,  having unplanned babies is something the poors do, and for people in my class it is Simply Not Done! I already have my 1.24 children and that's why im taking birth control, see! Obviously i must have an abortion. Listing off actual medicine you do does not mean you can slip in something else and have it be Medicine By Association. Abortion ends a human being's life, that is all it does.
This is more of a limited government vs big government issue, but it always bothers me when someone says stuff like “free birth control”. It’s not free. Someone else is having to pay for it. If I have to compromise on this issue for the sake of reducing abortions then so be it, but I don’t see why I, someone who refrains from sex partially for the assurance of never impregnating anyone, is expected to pay for someone else to indulge in the pleasure with minimal risk of conception. I take responsibility for my own actions, why shouldn’t everyone else?
Sure, they should!  Their lives are better if they do.  I totally agree that they should. That said, once we as a society decide that we're not going to let people fall too far, prevention is cheaper than resuscitation.  So if we've decided that we're not going to let infants be hungry and homeless, it makes sense (read: is cheaper) for us to intervene during pregnancy (get pregnant women a home, help stopping using drugs, etc).  Once we're spending money on that, we'll spend less money if we also spend money on contraception. So... maybe I should actually say... It's better than free!  It saves you money.  (Or, at least, it saves me money.  I don't know what kind of taxes you pay.)
I kinda did 'the Excalibur face' in real life upon looking at the comic.
Oh, Soul Eater? :3
I learned of that series when a lot of people pointed out the similarities that Tsutaaja had with Excalibur.

lmftfy
Perfect
Thank you
I am pro-life so this might sound stupid. Even if abortion is to be legal, I wish men would have some kind of say in the matter. I cannot imagine the idea of someone taking a life that you helped to created.
Men have been fed the line that they have no say in the matter, that it's women's business. That's a feminist lie that has grown to become the societal mindset.
The only time that narrative conveniently changes is when a woman does decide to keep the baby despite him maybe wanting to put it up for adoption perhaps and all of a sudden he is on the hook for financial support. Then all of a sudden, yes he is suddenly seen as a contributor to the situation. Boggles my mind
Right! Women have become so entitled, like anything they say or do is the absolute and any man who dares to disagree is a sexist, scum-sucking maggot. I'm a woman but I am really sick of the mental illnesses known as feminism and gender equality
I got banned from gendercritical a while ago for "denying the patriarchy". I a world where men are routinely deniend a voice because of their sex, I really doubt a "patriarchy" can exist.
That sounds about right. It makes my head hurt to even begin to piece together their train of thought.
Patriarchy does exist, but not in western culture. In these patriarchies, feminists don't exist because women are too afraid to speak up. Western men are on average the most accepting, tolerant and respectful men you will find. No other culture treats women the way western women are being treated. Example: If I told police my husband raped me, he would have a hard time proving he's innocent. And if I cheated and he wanted to divorce me for that, I would get a great deal out of it, and keep the children, even when it would be obvious I'm not a good exaple of morality for them.

Funny, google say all they do is opposing birth control. If your argument is the sex scandal, then I wonder why you don't state hollywood is also part of the patriarchy. Or democracy itself, for one. Every country has at least one rapist politician.
Yeah the extremism is definitely hard for me to grasp, I'm also a woman. Certainly there's merit to arguments about respect and equality. But there is no better way to undermine and destroy the validity of these issues and those speaking about them than by using them for advantageous gain.
I agree. We're all equal in God's eyes and that should go without saying but they are so militant and angry about it.
I just had an idea, every time a baby is aborted we should make the man pay child support anyway, put it in to a general fund to support children who's fathers aren't paying
It's all about devaluing the family. Feminism is about driving families apart, to the point where women are allowed to murder a man's child -  essentially out of spite.
Feminism is not a monster. Feminism is about equality. There are plenty pro-life feminists and organizations.
I agree with you completely. The first step towards that is telling men that they have a say in the matter as well. A moral one and a rights one, even if the courts don't see that currently. Some pro-lifers may object to that, though. "Bad optics" - you're giving men a say in a women's issue, what will others think! Splitting in a valid marriage is wrong, but I find sympathy for this husband if the story is as it's told.
Yeah I agree, but its hard to deny women carry the majority of the burden when it comes to reproducing. To me, it makes sense that a man should have no say legally just because he isnt going to suffer nearly as many consequences as the woman is. Also, I don't think being pro life makes your opinions sound stupid at all :) as I am as well.
They most definitely should be able to share their opinion. What do you think should happen if the man wants the women to continue the pregnancy and she doesn't?
The potential to file an injunction would be in the realm I'd like. At the very least I think men in most cases deserve a notification of the abortion happening. I do oppose the idea that men should have an opt-out option when it comes to taking responsibility for a child they helped create.
Not sure why murdered is in quotes there. Tough case, granted. "We must remove the stigma" basically. What haunts her is the fact that women change their minds and don't get an abortion. This is what you're up against.
Probably in quotes for legal purposes.
I'm guessing the reason "murdered" is in quotes is because the husband described his ex-wife as a "murderer." I agree that without the quotes the headline is still absolutely true.
Because it's a direct quote from the husband in question?
Makes sense but like...one word in quotes? One single word? Bad headline call.
Headlines do his kind of thing all the time. They keep quotes to a word or two if they can, for brevity.
But they're not usually the main contested word in one of the most contentious debates in the country....
Your whole mindset about this changes if you accept the premise that children are not really humans or alive.  I'd probably agree with it myself. The real problem is that their premise, while attractive because it allows simplistic answers to tough questions, is just as equally preposterous for anyone who takes human life seriously.
It also would change if you thought that they were really humans or alive but that that was an irrelevant factor anyway. I'm not convinced anyone really believes that the unborn are 'not really alive or humans' until the arbitrary date of birth. Maybe you could argue they're unsure in an earlier phase of pregnancy, but even there the conviction would be hard to have in a total sense. Many of these same people plea ignorance/who-can-know-for-sure about all kinds of topics, and certainly respect for the beliefs of others.
At least there's an excuse if they don't believe it's a human. I've heard a lot of people argue that even if it's a human/person it should still be okay to abort since it's "her body," and that makes them straight up evil.
TBTH, I'm not sure I'd do any differently. How do you maintain a common life, let alone a conjugal life, with someone who's done that and is unrepentant? (Of course, he'd need to petition the diocesan authorities for permission to separate while the bond remains, and that doesn't free him to remarry.)
We're not called to forgive others only if they're sorry, but husbands are called to love their wives like Christ loves the Church. And Christ never abandons His Church, no matter what.
Forgiveness does not require that we continue to have relationships with people who have hurt us or hold vastly different views from us. He can forgive her and still not want to be married to her or live with her. My ex-husband was abusive. I forgive him, but that doesn't mean I will continue to live with him. It just means there's no hate in my heart for him.
Yes we are - forgiveness is dependent on repentance. Luke 17:3 says "if your brother sins against you, rebuke him. If he repents, forgive him". An unrepentant murderer is not part of the Church. 1 John 3:15 states that "no murderer has eternal life".
Not sure I completely agree with you here; One of Jesus' main teachings was that we should love and pray for our enemies and do good for those who hurt us (Mat. 5:44). When He was on the cross He forgave those who were doing that to him, I don't figure they were going to repent any time soon (Luke 23:34). Most of the time people don't even know that they are hurting you, so they can't even get the opportunity to ask for forgiveness (which means that I probably hurt people without knowing it too). If you don't forgive someone you are only hurting yourself, if you hold onto unresolved bitterness it will slowly poison your mind and heart and it will destroy  you. In short I think that if you don't forgive people until they repent you are going to be waiting a very long time, and it gives us justification to stay bitter the rest of our lives.
That's different from forgiving them. When you forgive someone, you disregard their past action: the Greek word used means literally "leave it". Take a look at the uses of the word there in that link: it's the same word used for what a fever did when Jesus healed it in Matthew 8:15 or the disciples did with their nets in Mark 1:18. It only makes sense to do that if someone has repented. In the case with a spouse that has an abortion, if she hasn't changed and you were to just say "ah, nah it doesn't matter what my wife did - I'll leave it like it never happened", there's a strong chance that you'll get another one of your children killed. What you should do is separate from her until she repents and fully realizes in her heart that it's an abhorrent act that needs to never happen again. He asked the Father to forgive them, and that will only happen if they repented. But more importantly, look at his reasoning: "for they know not what they do". Doing something wrong by mistake is worlds apart from doing it intentionally. The Roman soldiers executing him probably honestly thought that he was just another rebel. But like Matthew 27:54 shows, the events that took place showed them that Christ was divine and they realized what they had done. So they sinned mainly only out of ignorance. Once they saw the truth of the matter, it seems like they realized their error and regretted what they'd done. If someone hasn't repented of something, it means that they do not regret the action and would be likely to do it again if they were in the same situation. Not forgiving someone just means not disregarding their previous actions, which is the logical thing to do if it's something they have in their heart to repeat. Remember that "forgive" here is an English word that's being used to approximate a Greek one. In English the word mainly refers to an emotional process, but the Greek word doesn't carry that connotation. It wouldn't make sense to say that a fever "forgave" someone or that the Disciples "forgave" their nets, but the Gospels used that Greek word for those actions. Always be really careful about unintentionally reading English connotations into the words used in these translations: it's easy to not even realize you're doing it and it can lead to big errors. (Like when atheists think God "resting" means he was tired because that's a connotation of the word in English, even though the Hebrew word used just means "stop working").
I'm genuinely curious what you agree with and disagree with in an article like this This basically sums up my opinion, and I'm curious what yours is
The main issue with that is that he never actually gets around to giving any evidence for why we should accept his position. He just sets out his opinion without giving any objective reason to accept it.But the idea that we should ignore someone's wrongdoings in the absence of repentance contradicts Luke 17:3. If Jesus wanted us to ignore all offenses and forgive no matter what, why would he say "If he repents, forgive him"? The article never addresses it He does make a bit of an argument when it comes to God's forgiveness being dependent on repentance not necessarily meaning that our's should be. I also wouldn't say that God doing something a certain way necessarily means that we should as well, but it certainly does tilt the field in that direction. God is the best possible being and so he always takes the best possible actions. Given that, if he does something in a certain way, it's generally going to be the best way to do it. So it isn't surprising that he instructs us to forgive the same way he does: if there is repentance. Especially since passages like Colossians 3:13 explicitly hold up the way that he forgives as an example: "as Christ forgave you, so also do ye". But all the author of that article gives to support his point there is, like in the rest of it, an assertion: "The reality is that we are servants, compelled by the mercy we’ve been shown, to forgive other (equal) servants". He never provides any evidence for that being the case, he just asserts that it is so.
So you'd stay with your rapist, murderer, animal abuser wife just because of that? (I'm not saying this woman is those things, I'm talking hypothetically)
I hate to be the dissenter here, but to me, I saw "fatal genetic condition" and then I thought, sad situation, but it should be her choice. If you don't give people medical exceptions you are never, ever going to make elective abortions illegal.  Having no medical exceptions is an extreme position and why so many people consider themselves "pro-choice" and against you.
I saw "fatal genetic condition" and I thought "oh yeah which one would that be?" Of course they don't mention it. And it might very well actually be a fatal condition. It might not, it might be highly exaggerated as we know women do get abortions for non-fatal medical conditions. But rarely do I ever see an actual condition specified and to me that's suspicious.
It is, but I doubt anyone could call something like say "Downs" a fatal genetic condition.  I was thinking more of the other trisomy defects.  There are some pretty bad ones, where even though I would love to have a baby, some things are just suffering for all involved.
You know, I searched and searched until I found the original article, and it doesn't say what exactly was wrong with the unborn baby, but it does mention that she "has a number of children already"... a number?  Is the number 1 or 10?  Not that it matters.
Even if you think it's okay to kill people with genetic conditions, why should the man not get a say?
He doesn't have to carry it--- and if you have a man "get a say" in forcing a woman to keep a deformed baby, then a man would also "get a say" in forcing a woman to kill a deformed baby.   I would bet that there are more men that would force a woman to kill a deformed baby than that are upset about it being killed.
Why is it a man's fault that he was born with certain parts and not others? A man should get a say in everything involving the baby. Why would you bet more men would rather kill their baby?
Don't hate to be the dissenter here. I agree with you in this case, and I disdain the general anti-feminist rhetoric increasingly prevalent here, especially in bashing this woman who arguably chose to end the suffering of her moribund fetus (I thought that the welfare of the unborn baby, too, was important to the pro-life cause). The pro-life movement, whatever that may be, has to divorce itself from being a contest to prove one's own moral superiority, often through the language of right-wing Christianity (note the article's appeal from the get-go to the Catholic identity of this woman), and focus instead on the well-being of the mother and her unborn child. I dispute that giving birth or miscarrying a dead fetus is necessarily less "trauma and pain" for either party.
I tend to agree with you, while I am generally pro-life, I think this should be an exception.
I'm pro choice in cases where the child would die anyway, but at the same time I don't blame him for leaving.

Wow, pro-abortion people immediately jump on exploiting her death even though she may have wanted to not kill her own baby. Why is no one crying out for better obstetric healthcare in paraguay rather than covering it up by killing a child?
So... no word from the girl's family on this? Did the girl even want an abortion? Is it possible that lack of quality medical care contributed here? Has the family spoken to Amnesty or are they using this just to promote abortion legalization? And why bring sex ed into this? How would sex ed have prevented her from being raped? This is obviously a serious tragedy and it's very poor taste IMO for the Guardian to not even mention the family (they don't indicate they have attempted to contact them, or that Amnesty/the doctors are speaking for them).
Exactly. People need medical care not abortion. It’s very possible, like you said, that she and her family didn’t want the abortion. It’s just an ultra rare case being used to push a pro-abortion agenda
Should be a testament to all of us that pregnancy and childbirth are not trivial. Please think before you talk about how it's "just nine months of inconvenience." It can in fact be life-threatening.
I find this to be a very peculiar opening line.  Is it meant to imply that abortion was forbidden to this 14-year-old?  Did giving birth not threaten her life?
That's a good point. But think about it, all birth carries risk of threat to the mother's life. So I'd assume they're talking about some more substantial risk than the "typical" childbirth experience, something more foreseeable.
Oh, believe me, I've thought about it! Except that they didn't say that.  What they wrote instead made it sound like they were trying to juxtapose dying during childbirth, and giving birth threatening the life of the mother.  It makes me wonder if it was a conscious decision; like others here I wonder about the motivations of the author. When people do say something about more risk, pro-life people and laws usually use this same language, "unless the mother's life at risk," "except for the life and health of the mother"... and I always have the same question: "how much risk?" Because if you had asked me about this patient, "is she at substantially increased risk?" I wouldn't know what to say.  There isn't an established medical cutoff for "this is enough risk to have an abortion." I also always wonder, why are we discussing a substantially increased risk?  Why not just say, "a substantial risk"? (And, of course, there are a couple people on here who say the cutoff is or should be a 50% risk of death.)
I'm really unclear what you're getting at. Right, that's the point I was trying to make. They must be referencing some level above typical childbirth risk, otherwise all abortion would be legal under that kind of law. Just because it isn't precisely quantifiable doesn't mean there's no way to know. You just use clinical risk factors. Physicians make statements all the time about significant or non-significant risk based on their understanding of a disease process. The law would essentially put that judgement into their hands. Because an increase in risk is a lot more clear than what constitutes a "substantial" risk.
I'm exploring my thoughts on it.  I don't have an agenda with that thread. On the other hand... This is the reasoning that I find strange. You have inside of you a sense of "at this amount of risk of death, I would be okay with it being legal for somebody to have an abortion."  Let's call it X.  Now let's say the average risk of maternal mortality in the US rises by Y.  Would your X also rise by Y? Surely your X is independent of what the "typical" risk is. Do you see why I find it strange?  I have doubts that I'm expressing it well. I'm not saying there's no way to know, I'm saying that it's subjective.  The idea that it's up to me what risk of death is "not high enough" for a patient, rather than up to my patient... that's abhorrent to me. (Plus, you're putting that judgement into my hands?  You sure?)
Yes, I think I see what you're saying: that an absolute risk seems far more relevant than a relative increase in risk when deciding whether abortion is acceptable or not. And that does make sense. If 90% of women had a 98% chance of dying in childbirth, abortion would probably be way more acceptable. It seems pro-lifers make a subconscious assumption of what a typical risk level of childbirth is and then another subconscious assumption about what threshold the "increased risk" would surpass to constitute acceptable abortion. Of course. Because you believe in abortion as a right of the patient. But the assessment of clinical risk is still something all physicians are tasked with, whether abortion hangs in the balance or not.
I've seen a lot of high-risk pregnancies.  Let's take my views on choice out of it.  Let's say you gave me a list of all the pregnancies I've seen in the last four years and told me, "please mark all of the ones at substantially higher risk.  We'll give you $5 for each one you mark.  But if you seem to be using it frivolously, we'll take it all away."  There are plenty who I know I could mark and could defend if you threatened to take away my money.  There are plenty who I know I couldn't defend marking. But there are also plenty for whom I'd think, "gee, I don't know." Somebody who needs to deliver by cesarean?  If you were having a discussion about reducing the cesarean rate and said, "well, does cesarean have a substantially higher risk of maternal death than vaginal delivery?" most would say, "yes!  That's why we need to reduce the rate of cesareans!" Somebody with a history of postpartum depression and suicide attempts? Somebody with a BMI of 50?  40?  35? History of DVTs?  Provoked DVTs?  Unprovoked DVTs?  History of pulmonary embolism? I'm genuinely unsure.  And, since I'm more than a little pro-choice, this scale only has weight on one side for me.  How can I do what you want me to be legally required to do? Do you think you were making those assumptions?  What happens if you stop making them?
Really, you're not sure? Because, yes, a person with a history of unprovoked DVTs is at higher risk in pregnancy. And a woman who is AMA is higher risk in pregnancy. I could at least intuitively (and with years of experience, more so) rank these if not give them specific quantifiable numbers. As above, and threaten your license if you are shown to be purposefully subverting the law. Pretty par for the course with important laws in medicine. I don't know that I am. I think I have a better understanding of the risks and safety of childbirth than most pro-lifers. And I think pro-lifers (and human beings in general around any topic they have not dedicated their life's work to studying) make some assumptions which are not false or baseless. It would help if they investigated it more, but from what I can see, they would be correct to say that childbirth is not so dangerous that it warrants murdering innocent human beings hundreds of times a day. Abortion is 100% unsafe for the human being in utero. You would have to show that childbirth runs at least very close to this risk to warrant justifying abortion in the eyes of a pro-lifer, since both lives carry equal value. For them to assume that childbirth is not quite up there in terms of risk is for the vast majority of cases accurate.
Because you generally reply to me with respect, I think that you must have missed my point that I don't know where they become substantially higher risk. I could also ask, "what is the lowest-risk person who would be allowed an abortion?" or "what is the highest-risk person who wouldn't be allowed an abortion?" So I repeat my question, how can I do what you want me to be legally required to do? You approach answering this with a metric when you say: It sounds like this puts you close to being in the 50% camp -- that the risk of death for the pregnant person must be close to 50% in order for abortion to be offered.  Is that correct?  (If they had twins, would it have to be close to 66%?)

Yes pregnancy is potentially dangerous and can have complications or cause death. That can be said of literally anything.. like driving or walking on the sidewalk. You know what causes death 100% of the time? Abortion. Saying abortion is necessary because it will prevent these ultra rare cases is absurd

Ohio's lawmakers have really been on top of it lately, haven't they?

You'll get over it.

That’s also this Christian’s case against Abortion. My opposition to Abortion has never been religious, except so far as my faith tells me it is wrong to kill innocent people.  I do t think that’s a unique characteristic of Christianity, many people of many belief systems believe the same thing.
One problem is, the 'atheist case' largely IS the religious case. Religious people have been arguing abortion in wholly secular terms for ages. They just get ignored, because it's easier to scream 'separation of Church and State' than deal with the arguments. And also, some of this is a bit of a joke. Whenever I read things like this, I wonder who they are talking to. Careful, deliberate argument only works with a very particular subgroup of people.

"The murder of the innocent leads to the death of the guilty, who carry the innocent within them; take no part in their sin. For all who do wear equally the guilt of the mother, all seek the penalty of death; from the lawmakers to the voters, to the building owner to the workers to the suppliers, and finally to the father, if he does not take a stand to protect the unborn who are without blame." Says The Lord http://answersonlygodcangive.com/Thus_Says_The_Lord_Regarding_Abortion
Within the first 5 minutes of the first episode they explain how a baby is already learning and collecting information within the womb, knowing their mother's voice at birth and absorbing the things going on around the mother. I highly recommend it to anyone, but especially if you need to explain to somebody why a fetus isn't just a clump of cells. It shows opinions from doctors and scientists from around the world, so they can't even argue about a cultural bias. It's really excellent.
I'd like to also add that they stress the importance not of money, but of love and attention from the parents. Many people think they need to abort because they're not in a good financial place, and while it's true that you should try to wait to be as financially prepared as possible, if you are pregnant you need to realise that you can raise your baby just fine. Money isn't what matters to a child development and happiness.
What then if you realize that you won't be able to give the child enough love or attention. I feel like that is that case for plenty of people who get abortions.
I feel like that’s really hard, if at all possible to predict. Very few people actually believe they are ready to be a parent when it happens, but when the time comes most people stumble through parenting and the child turns out just fine.
Sure, but let's say that someone truly does not believe that they will be a good parent and give enough love and attention to their child. Do you just tell them that they are wrong? Like of someone doesn't think they can swim, you could just push them in the water and they will probably figure it out. But that's still not a very nice thing to do. Certainly not a decision that people far removed from you should be making about you.
You don’t just tell them they’re wrong, but you comfort them with the fact that most people feel that way and end up being great parents. You encourage them with reasons they will make good parents. You point them to where they can get help if they need it or you offer help yourself. If you know them, you may be able to see good parental qualities in them that they don’t see. I wouldn’t compare this to pushing someone into water to swim because there are resources (floaties, if you will) from non-profits, government assistance, or hopefully other personal help like from friends and relatives that can help you through this
Yeah you do all of those things. But at the end of the day, if they still feel like that can't do it I don't see how you can justify forcing them to. You're telling someone that they shouldn't make a very private decision because of how it makes you feel.
No one’s forcing them to parent the child. There are 36 times as many couples willing and able to adopt as there are adoptable children, so there are plenty of families that will offer the child everything you feel you can’t.
You're forcing them to go through with the pregnancy though. If that is something that someone doesn't want to do, I can't imagine making them do it. You can obviously talk to them about it, but at the end of the day, you're forcing someone to make a decision according to your morals on a very personal, probably the most personal, matter.
We have to do a lot of things we don’t want to do. There are plenty of laws that restrict or require something of us, so just because we don’t want to, doesnt mean we don’t have to. Forcing someone to go through with the pregnancy is not ideal by anyone’s standards, but given that the alternative is killing a living human embryo, forcing the pregnancy is the lesser of two evils. It’s not just a moral issue, it’s a legal issue. The government’s job, at the most basic level, is to protect the lives of those within its borders, including the unborn. But even if you said it’s just a moral issue, was slavery just a moral issue?
We have to do a lot of things we don't want to do within the context of society, but generally not so much with regards to personal matters, especially very personal matters like your own body and health. Legally speaking the unborn are not considered people and therefore not inherently protected by the government, at least in the US. I don't know exactly what you mean by your last question, what other kind of issue might it have been?

Hatefacts!
I just can't believe Netflix actually put it on there.
It's not really pro life, it doesn't mention abortion. It's a documentary about babies and their development. At the end of the day being pro life is backed up by science, so science inherently becomes as pro life.
Proabortion people know babies are aware in the womb, they're just in denial.
I disagree. I was never taught that a baby is "alive" in the womb, that it perceives it's surroundings. I was taught that it's a clump of cells and it means nothing until the final trimester/birth. I only became pro life because people educated me on why I should be pro life, and why a baby in the womb is a separate human entity. Maybe some are pro choice out of denial or a lack of morals, maybe even most, but I don't think you should generalize. We have a duty to educate those who do wrong and hope they see and change the error of their ways.
Who taught you that?  A mid/late 3rd trimester fetus is absolutely aware.  But before that, it's not. https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/201429
Lol. Any mom who has eaten garlic or ice cream in the second trimester knows that is bullshit
Can you elaborate?  I don't understand.
If a baby is unaware until the mid-late third trimester, it shouldn't be so perturbed by the sudden temperature change and sugar rush of a big bowl of ice cream or the sudden flavor change in their amniotic fluid as to thrash and flail around in response to it. I don't know whether they love it or hate it, but trust me, they are aware of it.
Reaction to stimuli does not imply something is aware.
True, vegetative people sometimes shiver or get goosebumps from a pinprick, but those are nervous system reflexes, AND BESIDES, we don't actually know that people in pvs or "brain dead" people don't feel anything. In any case, stretching and flipping are not reflexes, and as an even further point, depending on how far you're willing to go with that implication, anyone could be unaware i mean how do you really know. If you hold up two fingers and i say "two fingers" that's just my brain reacting to the visual stimulus in front of my eyeballs, and my oral muscle tissue reacting to the chemicals my brain has sent to them. I mean can you really prove anything is aware of anything?
Probably does not exist... in 2005 is not very convincing now is it? Technology improvements only tell me we need an update here.
I'm not sure what you mean.  Like, the data is wrong because it's from 2005?
More like incomplete, thirteen years is a long time ago. Much has improved in medicine and technology since. Would you like the latest technology to treat your terminal illness or technology from over a decade ago?
I'd rather have the newest.  But that doesn't make technology from 2005 any worse than it was in 2005, when it was "top of the line". Information from the past doesn't become less accurate over time just because time is elapsing.
No, but we at the very least should be very up to date when lives hang in balance. Any life.
The link that you've posted describes why there isn't consciousness before 29-30 weeks, but does not describe any evidence for consciousness after 30 weeks.
That's fine, at least we set a "floor".  We can continue to refine our knowledge.
Sure, but that's not what you said.
You are right.  I should have said "a fetus is absolutely NOT aware before mid/late 3rd trimester".


Good. We need more people to stand up and speak out against this murder.


I think the counseling is a step we need to take. I'd happily pay more taxes if it means more lives saved.
Interesting vid I just found. what are yalls thoughts?
I think generalizing Europe as one entity is simply a bad idea. Take Poland for example: generally pro life, very patriotic, religious and very pro secure borders. Now take Germany: generally atheist, very pro choice, nearly nonexistent borders, prosecute their own people before immigrants for the sake of politics. These two countries are very close geographically but worlds apart ideologically, and the same can be said for Slovakia vs Czech republic, Switzerland vs France etc.
Same can be said for the States. Oklahoma, in general, is as far from Cali as can be.
You're right, but in the case of Europe is literally a bunch of different governments and cultures. There's a lot more overlap in America than Europe.
I think you have to consider the fact that even though there are certain time restrictions, it's much easier to get an abortion within those time restrictions. Also there aren't a lot of people pushing for stricter time restrictions, which of course causes the other side to push back. A 12 week restriction isn't nearly as big of a deal when abortions are paid for by the government and all people have a lot more sick and vacation time as well as better welfare in general (so no issues about having to travel very far, or being unable to take time off work, or being too poor to see the doctor and thus not knowing that you're pregnant in the first place). So while pro choice people might not be ok with the time limits I doubt that pro life people would be ok with the government funded part.

I live in the UK. Healthcare is free at the point of use. All parents who earn less than £60k get child benefit of about 80 quid a month for the first child and around 50 quid a month for subsequent children. People on low income can get housing benefit to cover some or all of their rent and working tax credits and child tax credits to help with their expenses. People who can’t work due to having young children who have no other source of support can get income support. People who do work receive at least statutory maternity pay for about 6 months. People whose children are older and are prevented from working by illness (theirs) can get PIP or ESA or (their children’s) PIP and carers allowance. People who are simply unemployed can get income based Jobseeker’s Allowance indefinitely as long as they’re looking for work. Yeah our benefit system is not perfect and people (especially vulnerable people) do fall through the cracks all the time but I think we as a society do plenty to look after born people.
Except Britain is HUGELY pro choice so...
I’m not though. I’m pretty sure the people who aren’t generally aren’t in favour of dismantling the welfare state. I mean people in NI both are much more opposed to abortion and generally more reliant on the welfare state than mainland Britain.
Well where are you? All of you. I lived in the UK for a decade and never heard of pro-life unless somebody was making fun of Americans. Where the hell are you all and why aren't you spreading the word and educating young teens on the reality of abortion? Because I knew three girls who had an abortion before they turned 16 and nobody thought twice about it. My sex ed was "use protection, abort if you mess up." My biology education was "clump of cells until the third trimester." And I never heard of a single British pro-life movement in my 10 years spent there. Abortion is just a form of birth control to most.
I’m not a political person. If it comes up in conversation I state my views. I have enough to do looking after my kids and trying to keep my house tidy. In general though most people I know are of the “I think abortion is wrong but I can’t tell others what to do” POV (which is a total colour but less pro-abortion than your experience seems to imply). My social circles probably skew significantly older than yours though. There’s a march for life uk though if you’re interested, might expose you to some others.
I don't live in the UK anymore but thanks for letting me know. My problem is with the fact that no person, ever, questioned abortion. In America it's a hot topic in the news, people discuss the issue even if it isn't always civil and generally if you ask the average teen they'll know about both sides even if vaguely. That isn't the case in the UK, it's just accepted as fact that abortion is ok. I wasn't blaming you personally, just making a point that there's very little public discourse about it, like it's a non issue. I live in a country where it's illegal and I'm happy about that, I just think that I have a duty to inform others, especially the kids in the UK who are being told it's a backup option and there's zero repercussions.
Despite the lack of public discourse we still have more restrictive laws on it that the USA at the national level does. And realistically opening up discourse when the pro abortion side is far better funded and more high status (pro-life being associated with religious people who are assumed by the British public in general to be stupid on account of their religiousness) would do more harm than good.
You and I have very different experiences of Britain. We'll just agree to disagree on some things, and at the end of the day I just wish for the best for your country.
"Exactly. They're in favor of using motherhood as a punishment for promiscuity." How can you argue with people like this? They literally think motherhood is a punishment. Guess they should kill themselves to free their mothers huh? Motherhood is a blessing and I'd love to see these people talk with moms who have been struggling to conceive, and tell them how they're lucky for losing their unborn babies.
We donate to charities that directly care and provide for mothers every dang month. Just because it doesn't have "Paying for Moms who Didn't Abort" in the name doesn't mean they don't pay the bills of Moms who Didn't Abort I would bet exactly $37.42 that i have helped more babies of poor mothers than any prochoice person on that thread has. Maybe they donate to PP when they feel like it, to help babies get killed, not fed or get their electricity turned back on. ETA: we're not even special! Every prolife person i know gives more money to charity. In fact i don't know that any prochoice person i know even does at all. My bff is prochoice and sponsored some gorilla last year or something, i guess. I could be bad and bring politics up but it's late.
"Democrats are anti-choice on every other issue so we shouldn't take them seriously when they call themselves pro-choice, it's proof they don't actually care about choice, just about killing babies." "Unless you support a woman's choice to carry a gun so she can defend herself against a rapist, you're not prochoice you're just pro-baby killing."
There tends to be a connection between low-income and abortion rates. If we are expecting/wanting individuals to keep their babies maybe we should consider supporting them after the pregnancy.
Absolutely. I think in a roundabout way that's the point the comic is trying to make.
I see this argument all the time in Dem circles: "Republicans are anti-life on every other issue so we shouldn't take them seriously when they call themselves pro-life, it's proof they don't actually care about the baby, just about controlling women" or some variation of that. What are your thoughts? I know there are some groups that call themselves "pro-life for the whole life," and I think that's great, but it does seem to me a lot of Republicans fall far short of that. I'm not looking to argue with anyone, just get people's perspective. Thanks.
That's because any argument taken along purely party lines will end up incoherent since each of the issues involved are distinct and disparate and need to be taken on a case by case basis to do them the justice they deserve. Republicans do the same thing to Democrat reasoning too-- for instance, the stereotypical Dem logic is to 'take away all guns from private citizens because the police and the government will keep us safe'; while at the same time saying that the police shootings of innocent black people show that the police are dangerous and incompetent, and that the Trump administration is almost practically equivalent to the Nazis. It's a nonsense argument of course. You can hold both positions to various degrees, qualified and contextualized to suit; but the argument is psychologically persuasive in its punchy form. In the same way, the pro-life position is a strong, tenable one that crosses party lines and can be reconciled with any number of seemingly contrasting positions on other matters. The cartoon is a good one though because it reveals hypocrisy where it really might lay, though it's in an exaggerated way, and that's just good satire doing its job. The best response is not to fight it, and to simply acknowledge that, yes, many pro-life people do fall short of their own ideals, but it doesn't take away from the validity of the pro-life cause; it only means each and everyone of us should try harder to act consistently with our own ideals, Republican or Dem.
Great response. Thanks!
The problem with this kind of argument is that requiring all pro-lifers to basically support liberal causes or they're hypocrites would in the end just divide the movement and do it no good. For instance, I'm personally against the death penalty. However, I would never say that a pro-lifer that supports the death penalty is hypocritical, because I think you can be pro-life and believe that the death penalty is justice for convicted murderers and/or possibly deters some criminals. Same goes for the Second Amendment. There are people of goodwill on both sides of that issue and I would never argue that pro-2A pro-lifers should be pushed out because there are legitimate reasons to believe that guns may actually prevent more murders than they cause. There's reasons to be on the other side as well. I think the last thing pro-lifers should do is try to push out anyone from the movement they disagree with.
It is a little related to say that it’s nonsensical to hold both of these statements: “let’s take away all of your guns, the government will protect you” and “the representatives of the government are out there killing black men in the streets” and “Trump is insane and the government is awful”.
That's not an actual argument; it's pure ad hominem.
Non sequitur.
Really good point. There’s no need to fight on the ground of their choosing.
None of them are advocating infanticide, so it's not a fair comparison.
Considering infant mortality fell after Obamacare, some people would argue that repealing it indirectly creates infanticide. Same for defunding social programs that help poor people put food on the table to feed their children.
And if Republicans were advocating for single-payer prenatal care, you might have a point. But they're not. Somehow, they're able to distinguish between actually murdering someone and having a lackluster social safety net.
Pretty dumb. Conservatives tend to be more charitable than progressives.
Hmm... Really? I've heard that liberals are. I don't know for sure, but based on the Conservative theory that everyone should fend for themselves I have an easier time believing that liberals are more charitable. If you have stats though I would be open to hearing them.
That's a bit of a bastardization of Conservative thought. You're thinking more of Ayn Rand Objectivism where charity is looked down upon.  Conservatism strongly leans on charitable giving as the main safety net...not compelled giving to government entities that are often inefficient.
Interesting. It seems conservatives need to do a better job at publicly rejecting Ayn Rand then, because conservatives I've heard from have never made that distinction before.
I mean maybe it's just anecdotal for you? It's certainly not the case with the people I know. Studies have shown conservatives tend to give more to charity than liberals, partially a function of generally being more religious but also because charity is an important part of the ideology. Life isn't also black and white, so you can still believe in much of the libertarian values Ayn Rand espouses without buying into Objectivism completely.
Here’s a quick start: https://www.reddit.com/r/Conservative/comments/6t5dqa/all_of_the_top_15_most_charitable_states_vote/ https://www.reddit.com/r/Conservative/comments/2ijzkh/red_states_give_more_to_charity_its_because_of/
Those are two entirely different issues.
It seems that a lot of people don’t care that millions of babies have been slaughtered LEGALLY in the US since Roe v Wade. How can the pro life community do a better job of communicating that abortion is murder?
Have kids and raise them well to be steadfastly prolife. Normalize prolife conversation on social media and IRL (family, friends, school). Explain how abortion actually works. Many pro-abortion and neutral people don't actually know. Appeal to your audience's convictions. Would they respond better to a moral, religious, scientific, social justice based argument? Never compromise on abortion. When you do, you confirm the pro-abortion argument that we don't really believe that abortion is murder but just want to control women. You also discourage your fellow prolifers. Don't be discouraged if you are bullied, shamed, punished etc. We should all be willing to die to save an innocent child, so whatever we suffer is far less than that.
Thank you for your input. That was very encouraging.
We need to appeal to a wider community. Abortion isn't a conservative issue and it's not a religious issue. It's a human rights issue and you can support the prolife cause no matter who you are. When we explain it this way, people who haven't reconsidered their own pro-choice views in years suddenly begin to see the issue in a new light rather than dismissing it another time.
I agree with that entirely.  Personally, I swing somewhat conservative (although recent events have actually made me feel like I'm somehow a moderate), but I feel like this is one of the more important questions out there for how we define ourselves into the future. I don't think leftists are unable to grasp this.  They tend to take a more inclusive view of the respect for life of people and even animals and nature, but in this single case, for some reason a lot of leftists are exclusionary. So, yeah, I expect to find and would welcome inclusive leftists to our side.  We don't have to be in love with each other, but we can fight to protect human lives.
The overwhelming majority of people are in favor of reasonable restrictions. The number of people in favor of a total ban on abortion is much, much lower. Even in overwhelmingly conservative states, measures to ban abortion completely are overwhelmingly rejected: https://ballotpedia.org/Mississippi_Life_Begins_at_the_Moment_of_Fertilization_Amendment,Initiative_26(2011) https://ballotpedia.org/South_Dakota_Abortion_Ban,Initiative_11(2008)
By refusing the accept it in any way shape or form.  Giving a restriction based on anything means that at some level you're OK with murdering someone in certain circumstances. Start with ZERO abortions EVER. It might seem extreme, but those are the messages that get out into the world these days.
0 abortions ever can't even pass in the most conservative states like Mississippi or South Dakota. There's no hope of passing such an agenda in liberal or even moderate states.
The question was how to get the message out to the world. These days, Extremism is the best first step.  The Pro Choice folks are so extreme they want to kill babies at the whim of the mother.  So what do we do. we placate them by compromising the position that life always wins out no matter what. We need to make them come to us with why murder is an answer and hold fast that only when it's Life versus Life (the mother will surely die if they don't abort) as the only reason to abort a pregnancy.
What about when the mother's life is in danger?
Life versus Life (the mother will surely die if they don't abort) as the only reason to abort a pregnancy.  With that argument no one is choosing Life over Financial Burden, Life over Convenience, Life over Career Ambition. It's Life and Life so in those extremely rare instances we are still Pro-Life and we have to let those be the rarity that they are.
https://www.nytimes.com/elections/results/illinois-house-district-3-primary-electionThank the Lord she didn't win!
I'm genuinely surprised.  That's great news. Every prolife vote is important.
It seems that Newman is going to contest it considering how close it was (not even a %)
Was pleasantly surprised to see the Susan B Anthony list out campaigning for him.  Letting abortion become an exclusively Republican issue is a recipe for failure.
Honestly, if the primary was open there, I would have voted for him in it, and if I was in that district, voted for him. He's important in two senses to me.  First, he's obviously pro-life, which immediately means that I can stop looking at that and evaluate him as a candidate.  Second, for the Democrats, they need to understand that the way forward isn't going further left, it is by re-embracing those who they have ignored in their leftward travel over the last few years. I could have told you long ago that the Democrats were weak with working class folks who were Democratic stalwarts back in the day, but that party has assumed their vote for so long that they neglected them entirely. Another group that the Democrats use as a captive voting bloc are black folks, and I think black folks might be better off if they decamped from the Democrats or at least challenged the leadership internally.
He barely won even with the entire Democrat machine of Chicago and deep family ties. Pro abortion Democrats have taken even states like Alabama so they obviously aren't getting this message.
I doubt they're listening to that message, even with the Trump victory.  Trump wasn't elected by Republicans, he was elected by people who felt that they needed change.  That included people who I used to call Union Democrats.  People who stuck with the Democrats because they were allied with the unions, and they were focused closely on those sorts of issues, while remaining personally more moderate or even conservative. It is telling that even as a person who has been a registered Republican for 20+ years, I couldn't make myself vote for Trump, while at least one person close to me who identified as a Democrat, while usually referring to most Republican candidates with scorn, voted for Trump. As for Alabama, though.  I chalk that more up to Roy Moore being a walking disaster of a candidate.  They should have never run him.
Even in 2004 those sorts of states (Wisconsin, Michigan, etc) were pretty swingy (Bush only barely lost them). It's only with Obama that they became "blue wall" states and when he was gone, they went back to being swingy again (and went for Trump). That seems to be a common thing. A few people I know voted for the Republican in every other race except for the presidential, which they mostly left blank. I was a strong Cruz supporter in the primaries but when those were over it was either him or Hillary.
I was lucky to be able to vote for a third party pro-life candidate in my state, so I didn't have to do something distasteful and not make some selection.  But I was very close to not voting for anyone to be President.
I read somewhere there are three openly pro life dems left, not sure who the other two are though.
Collin Peterson who represents a district that is more Republican than Texas. Henry Cuellar who represents a strongly catholic district on the Texas border.
It was close (less than 1%) but he did it!
Good.  I’m glad we have him on our side.

I would be extremely wary of any study produced by the Guttmacher Institute. It was founded by Planned Parenthood and is still financed by it. I've crunched the abortion numbers for the United Kingdom, and found that abortion rates in Northern Ireland (which has extremely restrictive abortion laws) are 8 times lower than those in England and Wales (which have liberal laws).
Are these rates of abortions performed in those countries, or one people from those countries?
Quite a few people travel from Northern Ireland to England and Wales for abortions, and the figures for Northern Ireland include those numbers. Here's more details from a paper I'm writing that refers to these figures: "This is based on 2016 figures, and includes the 724 induced abortions in England and Wales performed on Northern Ireland residents (Department of Health and Social Care, United Kingdom, 2017). Northern Ireland recorded only 13 induced abortions in 2016 (Department of Health, Northern Ireland, 2018). Scotland recorded only seven abortions performed on non-residents in 2016 (National Services Scotland, 2017). The population of Northern Ireland in mid-2016 was estimated to be 1,862,100, while the population of England and Wales was estimated to be 58,381,300 (Office for National Statistics, United Kingdom, 2018). 190,406 induced abortions were recorded in England and Wales during 2016 (Department of Health and Social Care, United Kingdom, 2017). "
Huh!  Interesting.  So you're saying that Northern Ireland residents have overall fewer terminations; N.I. is not just exporting their abortions. That's surprising to me.
Yes, their rate is 8 times lower, when exports are included. It's not that surprising - the laws are very strict and there's a strong religious element.
The numbers are still lower than what I'd heard from British news.  But I admit, I hadn't been following the UK so closely.
The low abortion rate probably has the same cause as the ban in the first place: lots of Catholics.
You might find this useful http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-northern-ireland-43317141
This.  Guttmacher exists to justify PP. If cigarette companies founded a research institute would you trust their "findings"
Making abortion legal increases the number of abortions, not decreases them. This has been shown in developed nations such as the US, as well as developing nations like Nepal, Mexico, and Uruguay. Even if it were true that countries where abortion is legal have lower rates (and I take Guttmacher's findings with a grain of salt here) that wouldn't mean they have lower abortion rates because its legal. There could be other reasons, such as lower poverty, crime, income inequality, etc.
The US has higher abortion rates than other developed countries where abortion is legal, that was kinda the point of the article, which is based on scientific research. The whole point is that legalizing abortion seems to lower abortion rates even when considering other factors. To me, that means that a pro-life person should want abortion legalized in order to, counter-intuitively, reduce abortions.
It has higher rates than some other developed countries but not all. France, Britain, Canada, and Denmark have similar abortion rates and Sweden's is higher. There is nothing in the Guttmacher study that suggests this. Even the authors don't draw this conclusion from their study despite being pro-choice. They compared developed countries to developing countries, they didn't even attempt to compare like with like (i.e., abortion rates in Ireland vs England) But making abortion legal doesnt reduce abortion, it increases it. In this case the intuition is correct. Did you read the link I posted? Studies have found decreased birth rates as a result of abortion legalization in several countries including the US. This means abortions increased, not decreased.
Wouldn't that mean intuition IS correct? Also, as far as I under stand decreased birth rates does not necessarily mean increased abortion, it might mean increased birth control or abstinence.
Yes, that's what I said.... Did you check out the studies in the link I posted? They attribute the declines in fertility to abortion legalization, not contraception or abstinence. Plus other studies analyzing the impact of more modest abortion restrictions (such as not allowing Medicaid to pay for abortion) results in less abortion/more birth.
Yeah let's just ignore the fact that most countries which criminalize abortions are developing nations with high poverty rates and less access to contraception. If you actually look at this table from that study, women living in countries where abortion is illegal are far more likely to experience an unplanned pregnancy, likely because of lack of contraception access, but significantly less likely to abort once pregnant with an unplanned pregnancy compared to women in countries where it is legal. http://www.thelancet.com/action/showFullTableImage?tableId=tbl4&pii=S2214109X18300299
Abortion is legal in the US.........
Only in certain cases
Elective on-demand abortion is legal almost everywhere in the US. There are restrictions on how far along in most states, but that's pretty much the extent of abortion restriction.
America has some of the laxest abortion laws in the world. Only a handful of countries allow abortion past 20 weeks, for instance.
Sources? I don't know anyone who was unable to get the abortion they wanted and i live in a red state. Edit: i see this has been downvoted but i have not yet  been corrected
One needs to ask themselves why the mere legalization of abortion would reduce the number.  In what way can this even make sense? Abortions are performed when someone perceives that they "need" to get one, or perhaps that they just have a preference to use it as birth control. In the first case, the "need" to get an abortion for unintended pregnancy is not modified by its legality. The most likely situation is that abortion "services" also come with birth control, and other sex ed. facilities which can help reduce the rate of unintended pregnancy.  These can certainly reduce the rate of unintended pregnancy, and hence abortions, but those services can all be provided for women when abortion is illegal as well. In the second case, it is hard to see how making abortion convenient and legal now makes it less appealing to those who use it as a form of primary or backup birth control.  After all, if legal abortions are made inconvenient for them, they haven't really lost the option of using unlicensed or unregulated practitioners as they would have in the past. So I'd chalk up the reduction to either the better availability of sex ed or birth control, or perhaps even a factor such as the simple reduction of the pro-choice population by dint of a generation of aborting unwanted children.
I don't know if maybe you have stats about it, but I really don't think anyone is choosing abortion as their first choice for birth control. It's incredibly unpleasant and will certainly ruin your day if not your whole week. If someone feels that's the best option available to them in terms of birth control, I honestly just feel really sorry for them. I would assume that legal abortion providers are also legal health care providers, and can make people aware of other options available to them. Where an illegal abortion place would likely just take your money and do the thing, a legal place would at least let you know about alternative options, and so people who were feeling like abortion was the only option might instead realize there is support available to them should they choose to continue the pregnancy.
Given how often abortion clinics have been caught lying to women to push them towards abortion, I think it's more likely that there are confounding variables, like countries with legal abortion tending to be better off economically.
Wait, what? I don't understand, are you saying that abortion clinics lie, and women realize it and therefore decide not to get an abortion because they don't trust the clinic?
No, I'm saying that abortion clinics nudge women towards abortion, so the theory that they're so good at steering women away from abortion that they offset the ease of getting an abortion when it's legal is probably wrong. The idea that the statistics you cite haven't controlled for all the variables is much more likely.
It's true, there isn't a lot of information about how they controlled for other variables. I'm sure it's very challenging to do so.
The variable is that wealthy nations have much lower abortion rates that have been consistently dropping as well. Wealthy nations are significantly more likely to have legalized abortion. https://www.reddit.com/r/prolife/comments/860c9t/abortion_rates_drop_dramatically_but_only_in_rich/
That last paragraph is interesting. I have experience that says otherwise, but its just an anecdote so I'll instead point out the fact that legality has nothing to do with capitalism or corporate greed or bottom lines.
To address your point here, this is definitely the likely scenario.  Having medical professionals involved to provide options is going to help with the abortion rate. Of course, one does not need legal abortion to have medical professionals who provide good advice on family planning.
Right but if someone thinks they have no support and therefore decides to have an abortion, and if abortion is illegal, they won't even approach a medical professional, they'll just go to the illegal person, who will likely not inform them of support programs available to them. That's all I meant.
I understand that point, and certainly when you switch from people giving neither abortions nor good medical advice to a world with abortions and good medical advice, there is certainly going to be some improvement. Now if we could only go the next step and just stop at the good medical advice, we'd be golden.
That's what I'm saying though, if it's only medical advice, then people will just go to the illegal abortion and never get the info about other options.
I would encourage you to read this article. http://www.kentonline.co.uk/maidstone/news/abortion-clinic-staff-incentivised-to-encourage-abortions-134001/
I mean, realistically, the reason for the decrease in the number of abortions isn't people going to abortion facilities, it is the funding of organizations who provide that information which often happens to be organizations that also tend to be pro-abortion. So certainly, there might be an effect where an uneducated person might become educated by appearing in front of a real medical professional for their abortion, but that's like relying on the cops instructing you on the dangers of drinking and driving after you have already killed someone in a crash.  By then, it's already too late for someone else's life. Sure, discomfort of the procedure will probably cause most to be more inclined to do what it takes to avoid abortion in the future, but clearly this does not stop everyone. At the very least, there will always be a bedrock group of women who will get an abortion because (a) it is their first time pregnant unintentionally, or (b) their previous abortions were not significantly uncomfortable enough for them to avoid it in the future. Remember the number I mentioned for those who have three or more abortions per year?  That smaller 8.6% number of 56,000 or so is around three times the number of handgun deaths in the United States last year (15,549). So, even if through some miracle 600,000 legalized abortions per year were able to actually reduce to that low number, it would remain more prevalent than a cause of death that most people consider to be an epidemic worthy of protests and legislation. Further, while we may have reduced the rate of abortion from its high, the actual rate of abortion (14.3/1000) is only now starting to dip below the rate in 1973 (16.3/1000), after a high of 29.3 per thousand in 1981. In short, any victory in that regard over the abortion rate is merely after the incredible inflation of the practice after it was made legal.  Not a particularly high bar to meet.  We probably could have gotten to 14.3 per thousand by simply improving education and birth control in 1973. That's honestly why I can't take the argument seriously that funding abortion clinics and keeping abortion legal is actually helping.  At best it has reached where it was 40 years ago, and it is never going to ensure the eradication of the practice. EDIT: Graph here of the actual "progress" of the abortion rate from NPR.  And I think even PP relates most of that to better contraception access. https://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2017/01/17/509734620/u-s-abortion-rate-falls-to-lowest-level-since-roe-v-wade
I believe that stat was of the women who had abortions in a given year, 8.6% had had three or more previously - but not necessarily in the same year. If I'm reading it correctly, it is not alleging that they are having >3 abortions PER YEAR. So it doesn't make sense to compare to handgun deaths the way you're doing. Also, I think you're forgetting that about a quarter to a third of pregnancies end in miscarriage anyways. So of 600,000 deaths by abortion, ~150 to 200 thousand were going to die anyways. Furthermore, a person shot by a handgun is usually not a person who was nonconsensually subsisting off of another person's body, so to most people it is more obviously morally wrong to kill that person than the unwanted fetus. Unfortunately I don't think it is possible to eradicate it any more than it is possible to eradicate rape. Whether it is legal or not, there are always people who will ignore what the law says, and there will always be people willing to perform abortions for a high enough price. I think it makes more sense to legalize it so that rather than having at risk people go to illegal abortion places, risking their own and the fetus's lives, they will go to legal abortion places and receive information about other medical and financial support options so that they can make the best decision for themselves in a safe setting. Really, I think that maternal hormones are very strong, and that most women would never ever want an abortion, but that some feel they have insufficient support to be able to properly raise a child and so they feel trapped. Legal abortion centres can give these people information about other supports available, and maybe they will change their minds, but illegal abortion places will just do the abortion and move on. To me, it seems a clear win/win to legalize, safer for everyone and making the best of a bad situation. I'm all for improving education and access to birth control, though! I think that's a great idea.
My understanding of that statistic was the same as yours:  three or more previous abortions in a lifetime. And yet many of those people are gang members in inner cities that are considerably less innocent than the humans killed in abortions and could certainly be argued to be intentionally engaged in risky behavior. I would note that that 15,000 number includes many more of those sorts of victims than it does elementary or high school students.  But that does not stop gun control activists from using the full number. And lest you think I am arguing against gun control, I'm really not.  In fact, my point is that if we consider the lives of so-called "gangbangers" to be important enough to stand up for, I don't see why we don't stand up for those who are, by definition, always more innocent than they are. I've recently been having a long running back and forth with someone who had an abortion because she was raped.  That's frankly a horrible situation to be in.  But I will note, the only person who actually committed a crime in that case is likely still alive and eating three meals a day at the expense of the taxpayer. Do I think we should execute rapists?  No.  And with that in mind, I definitely don't think we should be executing their children. Honestly, there's no good reason to draw the line at personhood that the pro-choice side has, except for the pure purpose of making abortion palatable.  I can't think of any other situation that requires us to make the distinction of person and non-person which isn't used to make an argument to take advantage of another human for some reason. I don't know if we'll eradicate it either, although we certainly won't eradicate it by making it legal. We did not eradicate slavery around the world by fighting the Civil War, we did not end murder by making it illegal, and we certainly have not ended suffering by setting up charities to help others.  But it is incredibly important that we make the attempt.  Not only does it help keep those problems under control, it is our moral and ethical duty to not support it and give cover to the practice.
I guess I don't equate innocence with value the same way that you do. As for executing rapists vs children - I don't really want to get into that debate, but I do think it's a false equivalence. If the only way to get someone to stop raping you is to kill them, I absolutely think you should be allowed to do that. So to me it makes more sense to use that analogy to say that no human has the right to nonconsensually occupy some one else's birth canal, and that a person has a right to defend themselves from that, even if the only way to defend themselves results in the death of the other. It's unfortunate, but it seems more logically consistent on the human rights front - humans have the right to life, but humans do not have the right to use another human's body for their own purposes without consent. (Spoiler: I'm pro-choice, and I don't draw that personhood line that you say pro-choicers draw. I agree that a fetus is a human at the moment of conception. That doesn't grant it the right to more things than any other human gets, though. It gets the same rights - ergo, no right to other peoples' bodies. Abortion is never palatable, it's just the only reasonable conclusion, as far as I can tell, in terms of logically consistent human rights and practical considerations). I'm not saying we'll eradicate it by making it legal: I'm saying we will reduce it (which, despite being prochoice, is definitely something I want too).

I think what I was getting at is that there is a certain section of people who will throw caution to the wind, so abortion becomes their default birth control method.  There are definitely people who, even knowing about condoms and other methods, won't use them for "reasons".
Yeah again, no one is going to willingly go through multiple abortions when there are other options. It will ruin your whole day if not your whole week, they're not fun - very painful.
While it is certainly not the majority, a substantial number of abortions are performed on people who have had them before. https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/66/ss/ss6624a1.htm Bear in mind that in 2014 the CDC counted 652,639 abortions, although not all states and areas report to the CDC, so it is probably higher. For those who have had three or more the 8.6% of that total number is about 56,127. Although there is no way to be sure, I think it is safe to assume that these folks are only having one abortion per year, so that is the number of subjects. I'd also point out that, "abortions" may also include drug-induced in that number, and I am not certain of the pain level of that.  Certainly it would be less invasive than suction or a D and C. Now, if a woman has gotten at least one, and sometimes more than three abortions, presumably they could also obtain birth control, or at least understand the usage of a condom. Again, my supposition isn't that they consider abortions fun or easier than birth control.  It is that in many cases, they take few precautions and they end up right back in the abortion center.  The reason for their actions may be lack of education, but it is odd that they're familiar with how to get an abortion, but not so much on how to prevent pregnancies in the first place. Perhaps it is painful and distressing, but repeat performances, so to speak, do not appear to be rare.
That's higher than I would have thought, thanks for those stats! Drug induced abortions are no cakewalk either - although it's only a viable option early in the pregnancy, it still feels at best like a very bad period cramp, which can put you out of commission for hours. I would guess that women getting multiple abortions have other reasons for not using birth control, since birth control is obviously way less invasive/uncomfortable than an abortion. I mean, it's possible that some of them just have a lot of sex, and since birth control periodically fails, they might just be getting unwanted pregnancies that way. I don't really know. Or maybe they have religious reasons for not using birth control, and yet for other reasons feel unable to carry a pregnancy to term, and thus opt for an abortion? Or perhaps they know that they have a very high chance of producing children with genetic defects, and they believe abortion is a more merciful option? I just feel like we don't have enough information here.
I mean, there are certainly all sorts of reasons behind it, and I think it would take a real study to work out the reality behind it. But do not underestimate the number of situations where people are 100% aware of condoms, for instance, and just "don't like the way they feel" and either the man convinces the woman of that, or the woman doesn't need convincing and they go at it in spite of knowing better. Is that the majority of those cases?  I could not say.  But it does happen at least anecdotally. Humans are good at forgetting past pains when they are in pursuit of more short term pleasures or if they are trying to maintain a relationship.  One might even suggest that is a top reason abortion and unintended pregnancy is even a discussion.
Yep. According to another Guttmacher study the more available abortion is, the less likely people are to use highly effective contraception. https://www.guttmacher.org/news-release/2015/women-states-restrictive-abortion-policies-more-likely-others-use-highly-effective

It must be be horrifying to live knowing people want to kill you because of something you were born with.
I can't imagine. Look at the comment here,  not even just weighing the pros and cons of his life, but actively listing off the reasons that his life is unjustified. They'll come for people like me too someday
It's basically this. Translation: This hereditary defective costs the people's community 60000 reichsmark in a lifetime. Kinsmen, that is your money too.
Good for him. He's right.
He was literally born that way. I wonder what the left thinks about aborting fetuses with a high likelihood of being gay, trans or otherwise queer? Because you can't say one is worthy of dignity and respect and the other is not if both are determined by your genetics.
If it weren't for double standards the left would have no standards at all...
Especially reddit. One of their usual reasons for abortion involves the possibility of a handicapped child yet whenever they see the same kid they would have aborted doing well or enjoying life on the front page they're suddenly "awh life is precious"
Democrats get this idea that "a fetus isn't a person" drilled into them constantly, and are told questioning that makes them sexist. Once they are made to admit that a fetus, regardless of whether it is a life now or not, inevitably becomes a life, they aren't far from seeing the light. That's what happened to me anyway. It can take some time to break through the walls that have been built up though, and seeing women argue against abortion is often necessary.
I saw this comment and it made me, as a pro-choice person think: why is/isn't a fetus a person? I think my reasoning is that personhood comes from a form of sentience. Let's say that tomorrow we discovered cows are sentient, or we managed to create a sentient computer programme. I believe that then killing more cows, or in some way turning off that computer that runs the computer programme would classify as murder. However, since a fetus does not seem to display any sentience, and honestly children seem to lack it up until 6 months or so after birth(though I may be wrong here), I don't think that abortion within the first two trimesters is murder, or killing a person.
Well, it's funny you should bring up killing cows because you're talking to a vegetarian :P. I actually consider killing cows, or any animal for that matter, in the realm of "maybe murder" and that's why I don't do it. Same thing with abortion. I honestly don't know if it's murder or not. But I feel like that doubt is enough for me to stop and think: maybe we shouldn't be so quick to allow abortion in every instance. Honestly I go back and forth on it. There are some instances where it makes sense, such as when the women's life is in danger. The "maybe murder" isn't enough to outweigh the "definitely murder" of letting someone die. However in other instances, such as sex-selective abortion or abortion of down-syndrome children, I think the question of "is it murder?" is enough to not allow it. But again, I don't know, I go back and forth. I feel like both sides have good arguments and both sides have some very bad arguments. I do believe we can find common ground if we listen to each other and don't resort to name calling though. But it's hard when one side thinks the other is killing babies and the other thinks the other side is not seeing women as human.
I find it interesting how you're calling killing cows (and aborting fetuses) "maybe murder". In my head that doesn't make sense at all, I mean how can you be uncertain whether something is or is not murder? What's your definition of murder? For me I think that (like I mentioned) sentience is a good measure of murder, and so I can say that to me, killing animals is (for now) not an ethical qualm, at least not in terms of murder/not murder. Sorry if I seem too aggressive, but you have an interesting stance I haven't seen before and I'd like to know more!
There are many left-wing people right here on this subreddit. The more you “other” them, the more you reinforce the idea that abortion should continue to be a partisan issue instead of one where we could be open to solidarity.
I'm not following your logic here.  To say I'm the one making this into a partisan issue and alienating the other side, while the Democratic Party platform states the following, is just a laughable and intellectually dishonest argument: Maybe next time, instead of taking the time to lecture me on why I'm wrong for calling out the group that overwhelmingly supports the killing of the unborn (not to mention refusing to endorse the only pro-life dem left), you could try to change the mind of someone on the left that supports abortion...
I didn’t say that. I didn’t make an argument. I made a claim. I didn’t lecture you, and I don’t want you to feel I am speaking down to you. “The left” is not a monolith, and dismissively treating them as such has the effect of alienating not only the ones we have yet to convince but also the ones who are already on our side. It seems clear from your last sentence, after all, that you see changing minds as an important goal—how do you expect to accomplish that by berating people? Put yourself in that position: Somebody tries to convince you of something, you finally relent and come to an understanding, and then that person goes ahead and dismisses you wholesale. Wouldn’t you feel used, and cheated? The Democratic Party can say whatever it wants to say, and it shouldn’t affect the level of passion we show for our cause. Their platform cannot possibly encompass the various ideologies of their constituents, after all, and until we reach out to liberal individuals they will never want to change that platform. Polling statistics even show that the Democratic Party is more extreme in its position on abortion than the average liberal is. Instead of allowing top-down flow of ideology to take hold by equating average people to the most extreme people that call the shots in their party, a wiser strategy is to leverage this statistic and inform liberals that their leaders do not represent them as well as they think they do.
You know there are leftists who aren't Dems, right?
Gloom, despair, and agony on me!
They've got twice as many as everybody else!
Please do not lump an entire group of people as believing the same thing.
I think they would argue that having children with disabilities would be harder for the parent. Being gay/trans or whatever is a disability as well and would also make the parents look bad and life harder
Considering the number of people defending sex-selection abortions...
He's right. He's a human being WITH a birth defect.

He is a human being with a birth defect.
Well I'm scoliosis and probably future heart disease, cancer and alzheimers. What are you, friend?

He can't contribute and is an energy suck! What a jerk! And he's gonna make his parents divorce! Get him!
Under that kind of criteria, the average Reddit NEET pining for UBI should be first on the chopping block.
Bwahahhah@a
Since when did the value of a persons life come down to how much they can contribute? My husband has narcolepsy, and will eventually have to go on disability. He will be costing money and also not contributing. He didn't ask to get narcolepsy, and he isn't less valuable because of it. Shall we kill every disabled person because they cost more than you feel they should? I didn't realize money was that important.
The deepest, ugliest extensions of neoliberal thinking.
You would be surprised as to how much ultilitarian thinking comes up in r/changemyview as a solution for everything.
Translation: This hereditary defective costs the people's community 60000 reichsmark in a lifetime. Kinsmen, that is your money too.

It was a card with a motivational Bible quote, and she decided against the abortion. /r/savedyouaclick
Wow. This woman is not the first to happen upon this verse when her heart was most troubled.


Not even a day. That must be some kind of record.
When I first saw this article from The Guardian, its title was: Here are some other articles about this story: kfgo.com: Mississippi governor signs bill banning abortions after 15 weeks | News ThinkProgress: Mississippi governor signs the nation’s most restrictive abortion ban into law – ThinkProgress The Daily Caller: Catholic OB-GYN Explains Why She Aborted townhall.com: Mississippi imposing nation's toughest 15-week abortion ban - AP News I am a bot trying to encourage a balanced news diet. These are all of the articles I think are about this story. I do not select or sort articles based on any opinions or perceived biases, and neither I nor my creator advocate for or against any of these sources or articles. It is your responsibility to determine what is factually correct.

I'm still skeptical of Guttmacher's world abortion estimates given the methodology they use, however it's worth noting that in the study they released before this one, they did find that the chances of unintended pregnancy ending in abortion go down the more restrictive the law. It's also worth noting that their finding of abortion rates dropping in "rich" countries comes almost entirely from including Eastern Europe under the "developed" umbrella.
“Legal restrictions do not eliminate abortion,” the report said. “Rather they increase the likelihood that abortions will be done unsafely, as they compel women to seek clandestine procedures. Indeed, abortion tends to be safer in countries where it is broadly legal and in countries with a high national income.” So murder is safer if you're rich and it's legal? Huh. Fact is that contraceptives are readily available and very cheap (like $5 a month cheap) so these women have zero excuse. And yes I live in one of these "poor" countries where abortion is illegal.
Any pro-choicer who uses that argument against pro-lifers really doesn't understand the pro-life position. When they say "Abortion should be legal because that means it's safer for women", all we hear is "Murder should be legal because that means it's safer for murderers".
I've rarely seen a political issue where one side is so (intentionally or not) ignorant of the other.


When I first saw this article from CBS News, its title was: Here are some other articles about this story: theolympian.com: The Latest: Judge to hear request to block abortion law theolympian.com: Quick court fight as Mississippi sets 15-week abortion ban syracuse.com: Mississippi imposes 15-week abortion ban; nation's toughest mrt.com: Quick court fight as Mississippi sets 15-week abortion ban myrtlebeachonline.com: The Latest: Judge to hear request to block abortion law billstatus.ls.state.ms.us: By: Representatives Currie, Eubanks, Gipson, To - MS Legislature - Mississippi Legislature theslot.jezebel.com: None Washington Post: The Latest: Judge to hear request to block abortion law Time: Mississippi Bans Abortions After 15 Weeks of Gestation nola.com: Mississippi imposes 15-week abortion ban; nation's toughest nationalreview.com: Mississippi Bans Abortion after 15 Weeks tri-cityherald.com: Quick court fight as Mississippi sets 15-week abortion ban tri-cityherald.com: The Latest: Judge to hear request to block abortion law Bustle: Mississippi's 15-Week Abortion Ban Is Officially Law & Its Restrictions Are Harrowing I am a bot trying to encourage a balanced news diet. These are all of the articles I think are about this story. I do not select or sort articles based on any opinions or perceived biases, and neither I nor my creator advocate for or against any of these sources or articles. It is your responsibility to determine what is factually correct.
Good bot
Thank you Mendellianflowers for voting on alternate-source-bot. This bot wants to find the best and worst bots on Reddit. You can view results here. Even if I don't reply to your comment, I'm still listening for votes. Check the webpage to see if your vote registered!
Good bot
Democrat appointed judge is hearing this case. 100% chance the law is struck down. http://www.myrtlebeachonline.com/news/article205913959.html Annnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnd he's stuck it down. Not even a day after it was signed into law.
This would have been blocked by a republican appointee judge, not sure what the difference is as Roe makes it clear this is illegal. Heck, Roe and Casey had majority GOP appointees. Also it was struck down so fast because the law had immediate effect.
I tend to agree.  Although it would be nice if a judge stood up for what is right, as opposed to slavish adherence to immoral precedent, the reality is that this decision will only be decided well above his pay grade and it would have been immediately appealed no matter what his decision was.
I've noticed a lot of push recently against clinics that don't perform abortions but claim to help pregnant women other ways.The #EndTheLies campaign is especially vocal here. They think there's a large amount of predatory clinics out there, trying to convince women not to have abortions.Is there truth to that? I know there ARE some pregnancy centers that lie but how big is the problem?
It's overblown, even according to data by anti-CPC journals. One study found that only 6-7% of women visiting a CPC reported that they were considering abortion at the time of the visit. And most of them reported positive experiences. Another study didn't find evidence that CPCs trick or convince women who are dead set on abortion from getting one. Sources: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010782418300799 https://www.reddit.com/r/prolife/comments/75znat/womens_experiences_with_crisis_pregnancy_centers/
And what about that is a lie? What about that is fake? They're not advertising as an abortion clinic.
They allegedly lie to women about their health and about abortion practices.
By not promoting abortion, right? That's what I see from a lot of pro-choicers: if you're not promoting abortion with x sign, then you're lying to patients and we're going to support a bill forcing you to advertise for abortion. If a clinic is literally lying to patients about development or about what they do, I think that should be condemned and punished and eradicated. But that's not what this is about.
Right. At the clinic i went to, they did say that a fetus has its own dna immediately, that it doubles in size every day in the beginning and then every week etc, that abortion is linked to breast cancer, that women have had injuries from abortion that cause complications in future pregnancies even if they didn't notice the injury at the time,  etc etc etc... and those things are all demonstrable facts. There is a pdf linked below framing these things as lies (and i assume these are the "lies" at the center of this post?) But they are actually all true and known medical facts. The workers are not all doctors and do not throw them out as solid figures and statistics, they just say that they do happen and these things are known. This is not a lie at all.
What are the lies, and what is suposedly the truth? Who/what is the arbiter of the veracity?
In December of 2004, the Special Investigations Division of the House government reform committee was requested by Representative Henry Waxman to evaluate federally funded pregnancy resource centers by examining the medical accuracy of the information that these centers provide to pregnant teenagers seeking advice about whether to have an abortion. Along with reviewing the medical accuracy of the information presented on their websites, female investigators telephoned the 25 pregnancy resource centers (and reached a counselor at 23 of those 25), stating that they were pregnant and thought they wanted an abortion (adding, if asked for more information, that they were 17, had taken a positive home pregnancy test, had never been pregnant before, had their last menstrual period two months earlier, and that they wanted to receive as much information as possible on the phone because they couldn't come in person). They found that in total, 87% of the centers reached (20 of 23 centers) provided false or misleading information to the callers.  You can read the details of the report here. That still means that there were about 13% of centers that provided accurate information, and I am not aware of any other unbiased studies, particularly given that this one is over a decade old.  There are, of course, plenty of anecdotes from people detailing their experiences, but the plural of anecdote is not data, so I think it's a good thing to refer back to the statistics that we do have available.
Is there anything more recent? And anything that has a larger sample size? There are nearly 3,000 pregnancy centers in the US. 25 of them is hardly representative, is it? I am open to being shown I'm wrong, because I do know that many pro-life people are willing to bend the facts to get their point across, I just don't know that this particular criticism/legal action is warranted. There should at least be an updated study.
I'm still Googling around to see; there's a really recent (2016) review of the websites of 166 centers . . .  but it's for those in Canada, rather than the U.S.. It's not entirely clear to me whether the 25 centers called are the same mentioned in the report ("Additional funding has been distributed as 'capacity-building' grants to 25 pregnancy resource centers in 15 states as part of the new $150 million Compassion Capital Fund"); if so, that might make sense on the scope.  I'm having difficulty finding out the exact number of centers that are federally-funded (which is the only type investigated in Waxman's report). But I agree- a larger and more recent study would be nice.
So i read that and a lot (most? All?) of that information can be verified on pubmed..........
Was this comment for me?  I'm not sure what it's in reference to.
It was about the link, and no just a general comment about the information in the pdf, for whoever read it
Link to it.  https://www.chsourcebook.com/articles/waxman2.pdf
Thanks.  I put it in there, but it really doesn't stand out the way the full URL does.
Tends to be more common in the southern states. Most of these clinics are backed by religious money so they tend to proliferate in areas with a higher evangelical presence. Haven't got the numbers to prove it but I'd imagine they outnumber actual abortion clinics in many parts of the country.
I'm not sure it's even that common in the southern states. I live in the middle of nowhere Alabama, have personally checked four different pregnancy resource centers to make sure they're okay before sending other girls there, and all of them have been above board. Care-net PRCs tend to be the best in these terms, because they're connected to a larger organization that works as quality control. A number of independent PRCs are also trying to combat this accusation by following the "Care and Integrity" standards set by Heartbeat International. Not to say that these sort of things never happen, but I think they're pretty overblown. Especially since they typically consider any PRC to be a "fake clinic" if they don't provide or refer for abortions.

They came here illegally because they were already born and suffering in their countries.

30 years ago we thought babies under 1 were just automatons. Thoughtless, self centered, dumb automatons. Now we know far better than that. So, what, was it ok to kill newborns before we knew they were so smart? I just don't get it. It was never right, and it isn't right now with unborn babies either.

This is a misquote. She never said she cut "the vocal cord," she said she cut the "cord" which could refer to umbilical cord, vocal cord, spinal cord -- likely the umbilical cord as this does kill the child. As I've said in previous comments, it's horrific regardless of what she is cutting and regardless of whether or not a fetus can scream.
Yes, it is bad enough as she intended it.  We don't need to misquote it to make it worse. While it is rhetorically convenient to regard our opponents as Complete Monsters, it is rarely that simple.


What about separation of church and state? You don't have to bring "God" into this discussion to prove abortion is wrong.




Will he vote for dem leaders? If so he is empowering the pro abortion side.
To be frank, I sincerely doubt we will be able to fully correct the problem of abortion in this country until we can put the Democratic party back in contention as a pro-life party. A Democratic President and Congress is not merely a possibility, it is an eventuality, simply based on electoral cycles and outside events that sometimes overwhelm longer term moral considerations. So a pro-life Democrat is someone we'd want to support, especially in a district blue enough that a Republican would have no chance of winning in. Trump, for all his considerable issues, did manage to reach other voters than Republican stalwarts and frankly won the Presidency where otherwise I didn't see a Republican winning. Now, just think of what might have been if the guy who pulled that off hadn't been a complete narcissist and was actually capable of running an administration and working with Congress. I've been a Republican almost my entire life, and I do support many of the general views of Republicans, but they have started to go down a path I don't think I can follow them on, and I don't think being a captive voting bloc of the Republican party is doing the pro-life side any favors.
Not necessarily.
How so?
Well I know it's the "norm" nowadays for Dems to be pro-abortion, but if this Dem is pro-life maybe he will find other pro-life Dems to place at the helm or at least try to influence those already in power. I mean I know these types are rare, but simply being a Dem or voting left-wing does not necessarily mean you are pro-abortion.
There is an EXTREMELY strong correlation. All Senators (even the "pro life" ones), all but 2 congressmen and all but 1 governor from the Democrat party do what Planned Parenthood tells them to do the vast majority of the time
The democratic party has made it very clear that they are very pro-abortion and anyone that is not is unwelcome.
They have certainly moved in that direction in recent years, and I do fear that they will finally push out the last holdouts very shortly. Which is too bad, because it does limit our options politically to a considerable degree.

If an individual walks into a CPC seeking assistance regarding testing for a possible STD why are they asked in a mandatory preliminary question/answer session: Are you a virgin? Have you had sexual intercourse recently and, if yes, what is the first and last name of the partner? Have you ever had an abortion? These are highly sensitive personal questions that would seem to have no relevance to the determination of an STD. The CPC also had no licensed medical staff who could offer treatment of an STD even though they could screen for it. The test results were only made available after answering the invasive questions. Is this process flawed?
I did not see that in the article.  What is your source for those questions? Also, I'm not going to pretend there aren't people out there who won't try and push their agenda in dishonest ways.  That can certainly happen with a CPC and it concerns me when I hear of it.  A CPC can do a lot of good, but they do need to maintain a good relationship with clients or they will find themselves not able to fulfill their mission of providing an alternative to abortion. I would definitely support disclosure where a CPC does have to state that they do not perform abortions.  I certainly do not support dishonesty or evasion when being asked questions.  If a CPC does not wish to answer questions about how to obtain an abortion, they should state that they do not have that information. But I want to make it clear I fully oppose laws requiring them having to post material describing the process and means of getting abortions.  That is a clear breach of conscience and if they are actually being honest about their services, it is merely forcing them to act as a billboard for abortions for no discernible safety purpose.  I think that's an important distinction in this case and it is clear state overreach that they have handled it in that manner.
A "We do not preform abortions at this facility." sign should be prominently displayed at the entrance if they do not offer such services. This saves a lot of potentially wasted time for all parties involved and avoids embarrassing personal questions.
That would be much more reasonable than what the law actually requires.


On one hand, I never understood how banning abortion for certain reasons would ever be effective. Wouldn't a mother of a Down Syndrome baby simply have to say that she wants an abortion for a different reason? On the other hand, here's the judge's rationale for shooting down the law: That's the kind of Dredd Scott-level brazen evil that'll wind up in a museum of human rights abuses someday.
One study did find that states with DS abortion bans did have fewer DS abortions as a result. So there does seem to be some effectiveness to the laws.
Yes, but that is the general legal principle being used right now. In any event, this will have to be overturned by the Supreme Court or an amendment, because Roe v. Wade does continue to give full credence to this unfortunate misunderstanding of life.
Probably the latter. The legal understanding of "personhood" in Anglo-Saxon common law as beginning at birth literally predates the Declaration of Independence.
True, although the Anglo-Saxons did not understand reproduction to the extent we do today, so some argument could be made that the conception angle is actually a better and more progressive angle on personhood thanks to the furthering of our scientific understanding.
Odd to be downvoted for stating what is nothing more than a fact right now.
Or wouldn't the pregnant woman simply drive to a different State?
Well, that would require that she have time and money to spare, plus a car, permission to travel, and lots of other factors. It would be far easier just to say that she wants an abortion for literally any other reason.
I think bottom line is ban or no ban she could still get an abortion if she really wanted.
She could abort her 3 year old if she really wanted, too.
Nope, THATS murder. There's a huuuuge difference between a non sentient, non conscious fetus and a 3 year old child
There's a huge difference between a newborn and an 80 year old. Killing any baby is murder, no matter how old.
Agreed but a foetus is not yet a baby
Fetus, baby, toddler, child, adolescent, senior, all just describe the age of a human being. Some overlap with others. They are all equally deserving of the right to life.
A fetus is human but it's not a person

Legal limits on abortion will always apply primarily to people of limited means.
True.  People of unlimited means could just go to a different Country if we ever do get a full ban on abortion.
That's why we shouldn't have legal limits, it should be entirely illegal
At which point it would only apply to people without the means to travel overseas. (Or perhaps we should require pregnancy tests on women traveling out of the country?)
No, i mean you could always invite someone over for pizza and then murder them and no one could stop you before it happened,  doesn't mean we should criminalize going over to people's houses. But murder still ought to be illegal.
That's the counterargument to an argument that I wasn't making.  I am confused.
And so will legal limits on slavery, child prostitution, age of consent, hate crime, religious intolerance, and like a million other things that every country ethically should have legal limits on, but doesn't. You can't make an argument against a law by saying that it only limits people who aren't able to leave the country.
I didn't. Do a lot of people travel overseas for the purpose of being religiously intolerant?  Is this a market that I was just unaware of? Did you know that it's illegal for an American to travel overseas for the purpose of having sex with a child? And yes, the rich find their ways around laws.  However, this is a little different; it is effectively just raising the price of abortion. It may not change your view on the underlying morality, but it should inform your view on the consequences in reality.
That's some pseudoscience right there.
Yeah, it is completely unscientific. There is no such thing as "potential" human life. It's either alive or not.
“Judge halts zoo funding, says they’re just “potential” pandas.”
How do our words dehumanize
The judge might want to crack open an embryology textbook. Alternatively, common sense might prevail, such that he might ask himself, if what is being aborted isn't living, what exactly is aborted? Is it an inorganic entity, like a rock? Is it a non-carbon based alien species? Something is clearly being aborted, and the judge ought to tell us what that is, given his apparent expertise on what counts as living, potential or not. He will find that he has uttered as biologically ignorant an opinion as one could possibly imagine. Yet I'm confident that he would laugh any Young Earth creationist or global warming denier out of the courtroom for peddling pseudoscience, thus confirming his hypocrisy.
Serious Question? Why are embryology textbooks the gold standard of evidence on this issue? Many textbooks contain false information and many are not actually peer-reviewed or certified. Should we not listen to the actual experts on this issue? As well as what the majority of medical organizations say on this?
What exactly do you think they will say if asked whether fetuses and embryos are alive? Your question is akin to asking why we should trust astronomy textbooks that claim the Earth is round. Just because textbooks do occasionally contain false information, does that mean we should entertain the idea of a flat Earth? No. Your question, contrary to what you assert, is not "serious."
An odd thing to say, as I'd imagine many of the experts have had a hand in writing those textbooks, not to mention they used them when they were getting their degrees in their fields. The answer to your question is that you are right, we should not completely accept answers handed to us by authorities that could be biased, which includes textbook editorial staffs, or organizations which have elected leadership which represents a majority viewpoint that tends to support the status quo.
Well, this is a battle, so that means wins and losses. The difference is I believe we have much more endurance than the opposition, and we have the future. Don't get discouraged.
Nope. I would literally die in the fight for reproduction rights (including legal, safe, non judgemental abortion for ANY reason) because I truly believe it is the basis for women's liberation (how can women really be free if they are constantly burdened by getting pregnant/ being the de facto child rearers?) and I know many other women/ feminists who feel the same way. Don't be so sure that you have the future on your side. Both sides in any battle think that.
If you seriously believe that women need all reproductive rights in order to be"liberated", then why don't you claim that they are liberated? They have full abortion rights. I know the future is on our side, because the science is on our side. Did you know that when we had the first abortion debate in America, DNA wasn't even discovered yet? And now we know that that "bundle of cells" has unique, living DNA independent of it's mother? To say that you're right is to be an actual science denier, to ignore the existence of DNA
Something can be human without being a person yet
Ok, what is your scientific reasoning behind this statement?
If you end up in an accident and get your finger cut off and it cannot be re-attached. Your finger is. 100% human, but it’s not a person. A hospital shouldn’t be obligated to pump blood through it to keep it alive. If you swab your cheeks with a cotton bud you will get 100% human living cells but they aren’t people. You’re not committing genocide What makes a human, a person is the presence of a consciousness. A functional brain possessing  sapience. Really a person is just their brain. We still consider an amputee a full person with the same rights as an intact person because their brain is still there fully. Your body is nothing more than a biological vehicle for your brain. The web of neurons and their electrochemical signals in the part of the brain that is responsible for conscious is what is really you and if a fetus has not yet developed these then it is not yet a person. It might become one, but currently it’s just an empty frame awaiting the formation of a person within it
Right, I completely agree with everything you've said here. So, when we've proved that fetuses have brain activity at around 5-6 weeks, would you still be for aborting them?
It’s not just any brain activity. Cockroaches have brain activity. It’s consciousness. Sentience. If it was any brain activity any animal should be treated equally to a human baby and that doesn’t  make sense
Great, ok. So how do you define sentience? Or rather, how does objective science define sentience?
I’ll leave that one to the doctors and neuroscientists as I am not an expert on neuroscience

Is someone who's had a hemispherectomy only half a person?
The concept of personhood has nothing to do with science though. You can agree with all the science and still disagree about when a fetus becomes a person. Also I don't imagine there is any scientific discovery that is going to change your mind so why do you think it would change some else's?
Because it has. Why is the pro-life movement growing?
It wasn't aware that it was growing. Most things I have seen say that it is about the same, and it really depends on how the questions are worded. And either way, that doesn't really imply that people's opinions are changing because of science.
It's hard to quantify the growth, but in 1974, 20,000 people attended the March for Life, in 2013, 650,000 did. In 2015, 52% of millennials identified as "pro-life" according to the Public Religion Research Institute. In 2013, Pew Research showed that 29% of atheists identified abortion as "morally wrong", up from 0% in previous years
1974 was the first March for Life, so it makes sense that it would grow since then. For the other two, there are plenty of other sources that say that more millennials identify as pro choice than prolife. It seems that millennials are more pro life than boomers, but more because the boomers were overwhelmingly pro-choice. It's hard to measure, but there doesn't seem to be any comprehensive evidence big shift, especially when it comes to policy.
Oh, well, that's because of the extremely slow inefficient way in which the state moves lol. It only moves in quick ways when it comes to taking away liberties, and slowly, if at all, when it comes to the adverse direction.
Wouldn't restricting abortion be taking away liberties?
Until birth?
Untirth. Bleep-bloop, I'm a bot. This portmanteau  was created from the phrase 'Until birth?'. To learn more about me, check out this FAQ.
By the "potential" logic, it should be okay to do in-utero surgery to remove some limbs from the baby fetal tissue and then continue with the pregnancy. A few months later, you have a deformed human and no human's rights have been legally violated, because they weren't human when it happened.
That is definitely one of the implications of the "potential life" and "bodily autonomy" arguments. You will be able to completely reconstruct someone who will "eventually" be a "person".  This reconstruction might be to the benefit of anyone but that individual. That's why the lack of a right to life means to can undermine any other right they have, if you get in before they become "people".
Yeah but they are a person at some point. So if you did something to a fetus that was eventually born, and therefore a person, then you did something to a person. It's kinda like if you injure someone and then they go to the hospital, if they die you maybe committed murder, if they don't then you didn't. Whether or not something is a crime at a given time can depend on what happens in the future.
But if you murder them before they become a person, then what?
Well then there isn't a person that was harmed so you didn't really do anything. So nothing. Note that this would be strictly talking about the mother making these choices, if some other person we're to harm a fetus that should still be illegal because they dont know that it won't become a person.
So it's okay to completely destroy a fetal human, but not to cut of its arms and let it be born? Left to its natural course, most fetal humans are born and become legal humans.
Well one involves hurting a person and the other doesn't. So there is a meaningful distinction there. I don't see what the "natural course" thing has to with anything, premature babies would "naturally" die, but I don't imagine you propose we let that happen just because it's the natural thing to do.
If you leave it alone, a large percentage of pregnancies will become (legally) human. So taking an action during the pregnancy to permanently disfigure the (eventual legal) human is wrong, but taking a similar action during the pregnancy to completely destroy the (eventual legal) human is okay? Without either action, that pregnancy would generally lead to a human with a full normal life.
Yeah but it isn't necessarily about what would happen. It's about what does actually happen. If there isn't a person who can claim some sort of harm then that is indeed very different from a case where there is. That doesn't mean that the action with no person harmed is completely ok. But it is a very important distinction.
If you murder a 6-month-old, you get in trouble, even though there is no longer a person in existence who has been harmed (98% of life years removed), because they're now dead. If you murder/delete a negative-6-month-old, there is not yet a (legal) person in existence who is harmed (100% of life years removed). So because they got offed before they got a birth certificate, it doesn't count in your eyes?
One is murdering a person, and the other isn't. If you kill a 6 month old, that is a person who was harmed. If you kill a fetus at 3 months, you have not harmed a person. If you harm a fetus and that fetus becomes a person, then you have harmed a person, if that fetus does not become a person then you have not harmed a person.

So by that logic, someone other than the mother who kills the fetus "didn't really do anything" either?
No, because the mother has a reasonable expectation of what she wants to do with her body including the fetus, so removing that expectation is still wrong.
Pregnancies end in miscarriage about half the time. There was no guarantee that she'd end up with an infant.
There doesn't need to be a guarantee, it's still a reasonable expectation. if you kill someone it doesn't matter if they are gonna die the next day.
I don't understand why it's somehow worse to abort a sick baby than a healthy one. If we're going to have such laws then it should be to protect healthy babies.
It's not worse; it's just something more people agree on so it's easier to pass, which saves some lives.
The same reason it's a hate crime to attack a born person for being disabled. It's discrimination.
So you would rather abort a healthy baby than a sick one?
I'd rather no babies get aborted.
Those babies are also at considerably higher risk from those who would convince the parents that they are too much of a hassle to raise. It's harder to avoid listening to those nagging voices while having to adjust your worldview to raising a child who is not considered to be "good enough" by those out there who want to decide who is worthy of living.
There are huge extra costs to raising a special needs child. It can cost $2.3 million to raise a DS child, which is totally unaffordable to the vast majority of people.
So are you suggesting that we execute them instead of supporting them?  That does not seem in line with what I have seen you write in the past. Yes, we need to deal with the higher costs of care for those children.  And we definitely need to support those parents. Ultimately, the means by which we defeat something like DS or any genetic mishap will be in developing treatments to correct those issues early on. Until then, supporting them is something we do need to accept as a commitment as a society, not just as a single set of parents.
I'm saying that very few of these parents are actually going to be able to keep their DS children (not just because of "nagging voices" but because of objective facts).
What do you mean by "keep their children"?  You mean sending them off to group homes?
By keep I mean as in look after them.
I am in violent agreement with you.

The next time Trudeau comes to the communion line, I hope the priest puts the chalice down, and then socks him.
Not likely going to happen.
Yeah, I was both aware and disgusted. Also the cowardice and dishonesty of his explanation is abundant. He wanted to avoid a scene and a confrontation. Story of the modern clergy.
Does science/biology have an offical stance on this?If I were to open up 10 different books on embryology would they all say life human life a new individual (a human being) starts at conception?If so do you know any good non religious resources full of trustworthy quotes that says it does?
Very first link on the sidebar, full of embryology textbook citations. Obviously non-religious.
Here is a good academic paper from Bioethics arguing that "Human organisms begin to exist at fertilization".
(I second Imperiochica's recommendation.) Literally, the definition of fertilisation is the fusion of gametes to initiate the development of a new individual organism. There is zero debate about this. The pro-abortion argument is philosophical, not scientific. Unless a prochoicer is totally scientifically ignorant, they won't argue that the unborn are not living humans. Here are some examples of typical arguments I hear: Certain humans (e.g. the unborn) are not persons deserving of rights because they lack some arbitrary set of traits (e.g. self awareness). The mother has a right to stop being pregnant by any means necessary, and this justifies killing the child. Objective morality doesn't exist so there's nothing actually wrong with killing any human. If society agrees that killing the unborn is good and legal, it is not murder.
Our cells are constantly multiplying and replicating. Constantly. We know that an organism dies, and is officially dead, when cell multiplication stops. This is called "cell death" in science/medicine,  to differentiate from "brain death" where the body/brain stem (or parts of the actual brain in some liberal cases where we just want to justify killing a useless person) continue to live while brain activity stops. Okay, so, the opposite of stopping is what? Starting. The opposite of death is what? Life. So life ceases when an organism's cells cease to multiply. And life begins when an organism's cells begin to multiply.
Technically "life" can begin at the single cell level, even if it doesn't devide.
True
Yeah it is 100% accurate to call a fetillised egg/zygote a human life. You can debate whether it is a life worth protecting or not, but it is 100% a human organism (living human): https://www.britannica.com/science/zygote https://biologydictionary.net/zygote/
Let me know if you would like outside perspectives on this.
I’m not sure about OP, but I’d like to hear the other side of the argument.
I can give you some quotes if you would like. "The idea that "life begins at conception" is not a scientific one. Since the disproof of 'spontaneous generation' (1668-1859), we have known that life only derives from life. Life arose billions of years ago and has continued since as a cycle. Assigning a beginning to a cycle (like the year) is arbitrary." -- Dr. Robert Wyman, (Professor of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1998‑present Program Director, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Undergraduate Science Education Program, 1989‑present Professor of Biology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1980‑1998) "Every human sperm and egg is, beyond the shadow of a doubt, alive. They are not human beings, of course. However, it could be argued that neither is a fertilized egg." -- Carl Sagan, (Astrophysicist, astrobiologist, Authored over 600 scientific papers and wrote several books about astronomy and natural sciences.) “What I’m concerned with is how you develop. I know that you all think about it perpetually that you come from one single cell of a fertilized egg. I don’t want to get involved in religion but that is not a human being. I’ve spoken to these eggs many times and they make it quite clear … they are not human beings.” -- Dr. Lewis Wolpert, (Developmental and evolutionary biologist, author of "Principles of Development" and “Triumph of the Embryo”)
I cannot believe how blinkered and obtuse that Wyman quote is.  No one is saying that "life" as a concept begins at conception.  Life as an individual human being begins at conception.  I don't even know what he's getting on about.  It's as though he read that line and applied the most contextless reading you could apply to it. As for Carl Sagan, great astrophysicist, but are we just quoting people with the title "scientist" now?  Shall I get a podiatrist to weigh in on the dark matter question now too? And finally for Wolpert.  Ask him if he's had any more interesting conversations with people who are comatose.  And then ask if he believes they're not human beings.
He actually addresses the point later in the lecture. I encourage you to email him and let me know what he says. No, I am quoting people who have studied the biological sciences and have some sort of expertise in this matter, definitely more than the average user of this sub can account for. That's not really a good response. Overall I could easily apply the charges to the pro-life doctors that are linked in the sidebar by SPL. The main thing is this issue is not black and white, but for the sake of being brief, I am not going to continue arguing here and will simply invite the inquirer to come over to r/prochoice for a civil discussion on this issue.
Are you pro-life?  I take care not to air uninvited pro-choice views on here.
I am very much pro-life.
"Human life" began a long time ago.  When an individual's life begins depends on how you want to define life and individual. From the perspective of a biologist thinking about organisms, it's convenient and consistent for most purposes to discuss it from conception to cardiac death. From the perspective of somebody thinking about moral weight, other points might be better. In any case, these are definitions that we pick, not realities that we observe.  Reality doesn't like firm boundaries.
This post was removed because you have a new account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.

I consider myself to be pro-life, but is shit journalism like this that draws laughter from the pro-choice movement. Had the author spent more than 5 minutes on this EndTheLies website (which I admit is horrendously divisive and unhelpful to any cause), he would have found this: http://endthelies.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/Research-Report_End-The-Lies.pdf - an article that backs up most of their claims with news reports and actual research. All this us-vs-them bullshit (which both sides are guilty of) does nothing to help the debate. It simply makes everyone angry.
I grew up in the UK, so bear in mind that the cultural attitudes towards abortion differ slightly from the US. For example, I've never heard of a single British pro-life group.AnywayI grew up there and I had friends and classmates at age 13-14 who had gotten abortions. During sex ed they explained different contraceptive methods and included abortion as a preferable option to having a child unprepared. Nobody ever questioned the morality, nobody ever even THOUGHT to question the morality and if I had asked I'm sure my teachers would claim it wasn't a real human.In fact most pro-choice people that I know, who live in countries with easily accessible abortions, have never bothered to think about the morality.They simply accept it as normal. I at age 14 accepted it as normal.At age 17 I decided that I personally wouldn't do it but that other women should have the right.It took me two more years to realise the error of that thought process, and in that time I moved to a country where elective abortions are completely illegal. At the time I was outraged to be losing that "choice." It took a law to force me to fully reexamine my views.I find it really disturbing how indoctrinated our children are into thinking abortion is normal, to the point where most of them don't even think to question it.Schools today offer both sides of evolution, I remember having religious education on all sorts of different religions as well as science classes.So why was the pro-life argument never mentioned?
Sadly, this is very true as someone who graduated from high school last fall. I went to three different schools from kindergarten to 12th grade and never once heard a pro-life argument. Even in my 12th grade political science class, pro-choice was presented as the progressive and smart choice while pro-life was brushed off.
Right. Pro-life was only ever mentioned if it was being used to demonstrate religious zealots and make fun of how "uneducated" Americans are. It was never presented as an option.
Growing up in the UK, I felt grateful that young people are given the information ( sex ed ) and tools ( easy access to contraception ),  but also frustrated and saddened by the underlying "it doesn't matter anyway" attitude. We tell our young people "please have safe sex.. but if you do have an oops, you just make it go away... We'll even pressure you to do so.. since not aborting will mean that your life is completely ruined, really you'd be stupid not to." I just feel it is presented in such a way to young people that if the "choice" is so obvious, why bother to give it any proper consideration in the first place..?
That's not even the half of it. I don't know if you've been following the Telford sex abuse scandal (children being groomed for sex in Britain for the last ~10 years, reports are still emerging)... Little girls were pushed by their pimps into pharmacies for the morning-after pill, and into abortion centres for abortions, and no one asked any questions. None. Because it's just assumed that "kids these days are having sex" and so, of course, they will need MAPs and abortions. What's weird about that? I can only imagine that the same assumption, communicated by teachers in "sex ed", probably made these girls easy-pickings for the groomers. They're already insecure about the fact that they haven't had sex yet, but apparently "everyone is doing it, even my teacher said so". This is a quiet little town in modern-day Britain. Chilling.
Tragic
I had the same experience. European secular countries began their public school systems in order to replace the teachings of the Church with the politics of the state in the next generation. They wanted a populace whose entire beliefs obeyed the government (more recently including abortion). It worked, and as a result, the European population is removing themselves from the earth. They are dying out faster than they can replace themselves. It's a terrible, but necessary correction.
Necessary correction? What to have less white people?
It is necessary (ie, a natural consequence) that indoctrinating a people to stop having babies and kill the accidental ones will result in that people removing themselves from the world. It is a terrible tragedy. Worldwide, white/western countries form the majority that are doing this to their own people. So of course, there will be less white people. It is mass murder on the scale of genocide, but committed by state-indoctrinated mothers against their own children.
Only necessary if we can’t change it from within. A people who murder their own children don’t deserve to thrive. I can agree with that.
Agreed. I hope that it will be the conversion, rather than the self-extinction of pro-abortion westerners that will lead to the inevitable anti-abortion future.
If we want any hope of colonizing other planets, abortions are gonna have to go. But the pro choice people are so depraved they’d probably prefer making babies in artificial uteruses than their own bodies and having to stop their promiscuity
I actually became pro-life because of an elective philosophy class that I took during my senior year of high school. It wasn't my faith (my former denomination was pro-choice) that convinced me, but rather pure philosophy. Before that, I had been like many of our youth- I'd just never really thought about it. Now, at 21, I'm a founding member of my college's pro-life organization, and went to the March for Life for the first time a few months ago!
You sound just like me! I also became prolife in high school. I was 14 when I noticed the contradiction. Sex ed taught me that abortion is the responsible answer to an oops pregnancy and only religious nuts think it ends a "potential life." Biology class taught me how life indisputably begins at fertilization. I was an atheist until that time, but left a year later. Abortion played a part in starting my questioning.
The pro life argument is never mentioned because it markets itself terribly. It's too easy to dismiss anti abortion arguments as seeking to control women, or being borne from extreme religious or conservative views.
Out of curiosity, what are the arguments for pro-life that aren’t rooted in those things? (Genuinely curious, not trying to be rude)
That a living fetus is a living human being. If men could get pregnant i wouldn't support them aborting either. That women are the only ones who get pregnant is the only reason they're at the center of it. It's not because we hate and fear the freedom of people who don't have penises. It IS necessarily conservative though, because progress apparently means allowing people to do whatever they want so long as you can't hear anyone scream. But that's only if we're using secular terminology. I couldn't care less whether it was called "conservative" or "progressive" that's just the vocabulary of the times and conservative happens to be an insult at this time, which is only a problem if you care. And i don't.
The philosophical literature on the topic never assumes those things. It's the media portrayal of our position that makes it seems like only fundamentalist Christians who hate women are pro-life.
Do you have links to any of the philosophical stuff? That would be very interesting to read.
You might look into the following authors: Don Marquis, Stephen D. Schwarz, Patrick Lee, Charles C. Camosy, Christopher Kaczor, and Francis J. Beckwith.
Here's a link to a paper I and a couple of pro-life friends published a few weeks ago. It's not directly arguing for pro-life, but is rather criticizing the view of persons most pro-choice philosophers use.
I am an atheist and pro-life.  To me abortion has nothing to do with religion.  It is a human rights  issue.  In my opinion every human being should have the same right to life.
The fetus's right to life. Kinda similar to veganism.
It's funny how a lot of vegans, who are so concerned about the right to life for animals, probably couldn't care less about a fetus's right to life.
It's because they elevate animals to having similar rights like people, especially if you're coming from an evolutionary perspective
But then the question becomes, "And how does that supersede the woman's right to bodily autonomy, especially in cases such as rape?" And AFAICT, justifying that requires one to reject Enlightenment philosophical ideas about the primacy of individual rights, and that is a concept so alien nowadays that most people don't even have the language to discuss it.
But does the right of "bodily autonomy" supercede the right for an unborn child right to live? The law says yes, the pro-choice side argues yes and goes as far to assert that it does not have not any rights to begin with, but prolife point of view argues no and that a fetus has all the same rights as a born individual.
I'd rephrase this (to a pro-choicer) as: Does a woman's right to "bodily autonomy" supercede the unborn baby's right to bodily autonomy? It's literally the same issue (bodily autonomy) with the argument being "who is more important"?
I hate that rape is always used as an example. Babies of rape make up an extremely tiny portion of abortions. The majority are done because it's inconvenient or the mother doesn't think she can step up to the task. In fact when pro-lifers bring up the idea of banning abortions EXCEPT in cases of rape, as a form of compromise, they're shot down as woman haters.
That makes sense though. If abortion is actually murder, equivalent to killing a born child, rape wouldn't justify it. Prolifers offering rape exceptions are fueling the proabortion argument that we just want to control women's behavior. It sends the message: Get pregnant from rape? Poor girl, that wasn't your fault. Go ahead and abort it. Get pregnant by consensual sex? You deserved it. Stay barefoot and pregnant, slut. Plus, the most important part. It's wrong to kill babies because their dad was bad.
Yeah I'm not talking about what's wrong or right I'm just saying they won't even accept partial bans that allow abortion in cases of rape yet they constantly use rape as a justification for legal abortions. It's basically impossible to please them.
Of course. They claim that abortion is the moral equivalent of pulling a tooth, so why would they allow any ban at all?
The issue is they use rape babies as a justification, but when we give and say we'll make an exception, they find a new bullshit reason. It's shifting goalposts, hence why I can't stand the "but what about rape" argument. You're right that they think it's like pulling a tooth, and until our education system changes to point out the FACTS, they'll continue to think that. The reason that the majority of pro life folks are religious is because church/religious teachings show the other side of the argument, which schools fail to do. That's why I made this post, because it bothers me greatly. We shouldn't rely on religion to give us the other half of the facts.
Which is more important? The Fetus or the Mother?
Neither.  If there is no abortion, then both of them get to live their lives. If there is an abortion, the woman is still raped, and the child is now dead. The child's right is equal to that of the mother, and that is why it should not be killed to answer for the crime or decisions of either parent.
Who said anything about rape?
Uh, the line you quoted?
Let's be honest now.  Do you honestly think slavery is so pervasive today because the anti-slavery argument "markets itself terribly" even countries like the UK? Pro-abortion people aren't pro-abortion because of poor prolife "marketing", they are pro-abortion because it's convenient. In the absence of an objective standard, public morality will adapt to whatever suits its selfish desires best.
Comparing abortion to slavery is the terrible marketing I'm talking about.
Yeah, slavery is incomparable. Genocide would be more appropriate. Regardless, are you really going to argue that slavery/genocide/abortion happen all the time because their opponents aren't "marketing" well enough? Hey, I wish it were true. It would be a lot easier than dealing with fundamental human nature.
Ultimately you need to convince people of your way of thinking. You can't do that when they think you're sexist and trying to control women. Have you ever seen someone standing in a public place ranting into a microphone about X type of person going to hell or Y race being subhuman? That person is never going to convince anyone of anything. They're a ranting lunatic, why should I listen to them? The core pro life argument; that a fetus is a person and therefore should be protected above the right to bodily autonomy is too easy to dismiss when you can say a person only believes it because they want to control women and don't support sex outside of marriage. That's the image that Republican lawmakers produce with their policy decisions. When the majority of pro lifers are ok with things like comprehensive sex education, birth control, sex outside of marriage, then you're disarming the main weapon people have against pro life arguments. Because then they can see themselves as a "prolifer" not a left pro lifer or an atheist pro lifer. But I get the impression that's not what people want. I get the impression many pro lifers would also like to reduce the use of birth control, don't want sex ed in their schools and want to shame women who have sex outside of marriage.
You haven't answered my question about whether you think that slavery and genocide are a result of poor opponent marketing. Have you ever seen someone standing in a public place in Saudi Arabia ranting into a microphone about apostates not going to hell? They're a ranting lunatic, why should anyone listen to them? LOL. Yeah, because the sexual revolution totally ended public support for abortion.
There seems to be a disconnect between what  I've said and what you're saying in response. There's a step between a result and punlic support. Genocide usually requires an active government to participate and encourage it. Genocide isn't comparable to abortion because abortion isn't targeted and isn't conducted by one group. The slave trade was definitely encouraged by marketing and those same ideas are still with us today. The "science" of phrenology for example supported the idea that some races were inferior. You live in America right? You've got to at least achknowldge your society's view on abortion. Not sure what you mean here.
Back at you. You're mistaking the purpose of marketing. Phrenology doesn't encourage anyone to buy a slave, the desire for cheap workers/sex/money does. The pseudoscientific excuses come after the fact. "Prolife religious nuts hate me" and "a fetus is a clumpy subhuman unperson" doesn't encourage anyone to abort her baby, the desire to avoid caring for a baby without the father etc does. Are or aren't genocide and slavery the result of poor marketing of anti-genocide/slavery arguments? Nope. But that's my point exactly. An argument will only appeal to a society if it's convenient to them. (Also, America's not the abortion loving place you may think. The laws are more liberal than the people, compared to Europe for instance). You claimed that prolife would benefit from supporting the liberalisation of sexual morals (outside of marriage, contraceptives etc). The sexual revolution in the West did this but resulted in widespread support of abortion. Considering that the vast majority of aborting women are unmarried, and the baby of an unwed mother is far more likely to be aborted, it's no wonder. Care to provide an example of when this convinced people to condemn, rather than endorse abortion?
What country did you move to, if you don't mind my asking?

Was just curious. Not many countries in the industrialized world have complete bans on abortion.
I imagine it’s due to Britain be pretty much prochoice . Only 7% want abortion banned https://www.google.co.uk/amp/s/amp.theguardian.com/world/2013/feb/12/anti-abortion-feelings-declining
Don't you think the number would be different if we taught teens both sides of the debate?
Yes I think that’s correct . Although it would have to marketed in a secular way, as Britain has more non believers than Christians .
I disagree. From personal experience almost everyone I knew in school identified as Christian, and there have been surveys that show the same. Either way I agree with you that it should be shown in a secular way because at the end of the day it has nothing to do with religion; it's fact. I'm not religious and I am pro life, as is my husband. In fact the reason that abortion is illegal in my country (brazil) is due to the fact that the government puts "the right to life" above all else (hence no life sentences or death sentences) and because it would go directly against the Hippocratic oath. A baby here has rights from the point of conception, by law. Exceptions are made in cases of rape (court order only, you can't just make shit up at the doc), serious risk of death to the mother or guaranteed stillbirth. The mother of course can still choose to carry the baby if she wishes. There's no need for religion to be involved in this issue, that's why it bothers me so much that it's portrayed as a religious vs atheist issue. It's a human rights issue.
Britain is actually  now pretty secular , over 50% have no religious beliefs according to a survey last September https://www.google.co.uk/amp/s/amp.theguardian.com/world/2017/sep/04/half-uk-population-has-no-religion-british-social-attitudes-survey
Absolutely right.  And as we make more and more advances with science, it is becoming a more important line that needs to be drawn, also using science. While I am religious, and don't make any apology for that, I've been careful to avoid religious argumentation for this issue. And really, it would be redundant anyhow.  You can choose to respect life because you care for humans and that doesn't put you afoul of any person or deity as far as I can tell.

The article provides good advice for men on how to defend their role as pro-life advocates.
I had to emphasize that part because it just struck me how sad it was.  Can you imagine being a father who is forced to stand idly by while his child is killed by the kid’s own mother? To be honest, I’m kind of glad I’m not a guy so I’ll never have to endure that kind of tragedy.
This race in 2018 could decide who will control the Wisconsin Supreme Court so we have to go ALL OUT to win it! Here's how YOU can help:Volunteer: We need people on the ground making sure voters turnout and you can help even if you're from another state (by travelling here or phone banking), more info here - https://www.judgescrenock.com/volunteer/Donating: At the moment the Democrat is leading in fundraising and has been given thousands by radical organizations such as Planned Parenthood. Screnock needs YOUR help to bridge this gap and you can do so here - https://www.judgescrenock.com/donate/Keep informed: You can keep informed of the latest campaign news here - https://twitter.com/judgescrenockVoting: Perhaps the most important job of all! Make sure you get out to vote on April 3rd 2018! If you need to register to vote then see here: https://vote.gov/Absentee: If you're serving in the military or aren't able to make it to election day for ANY reason see here for absentee ballots: https://www.fvap.gov/
Legit question: do you want all abortion, regardless of circumstances, illegal? Or are there some instances where abortion is acceptable? Second question: are you in favour of universal healthcare? Not trying to start anything, just curious.
When the mother's life is actually at real risk from the pregnancy I do think it should be permitted, otherwise no. It's a tough one that. My family originate from England which does have that and I do see the positives of it. But i'm not sure if it would work here.
I've heard that numerous times without any elaboration. Would you be able to explain why you don't think it would work?
It requires much more government intervention (the NHS in England was founded by nationalizing almost every hospital in the country back in 1948) than most people would be comfortable with. And getting all 50 states to agree to abolish medicare/medicaid and replace it with that system would be very difficult.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_National_Health_Service_(England)#Development_of_the_NHS_in_England_and_Wales,_1948%E2%80%931969 Reading that over, I can't see what the real problem is. What wouldn't people be comfortable with? Of course it would be. That doesn't mean it's impossible. Your country put a person on the moon!
Hello everybody. I volunteer at a center that deals with women going through unplanned pregnancies and we are in need of help!If you have it in your heart to help us, please read on. (or jump to the tldr; section)In short, the center I volunteer at is called "Lydia – A Beating Heart"  and is the first and only pregnancy resource center in the entire country (Macedonia). We offer counseling and help while promoting the value of life and the baby’s right to be born. We never force a decision, but explain all the risks, benefits and long term effects of their decisions.We don't exclude families that have already gone through abortion. We offer counseling to them too, because the bad effects of abortion can come later in life.Another fact about our center is that we are truly pro-life, not just pro-birth. Meaning, if the families that decided to keep their unborn babies wish so, we continue to have contact with them and try and support them in many ways. For example, we donate diapers, baby food, baby cosmetics and so on.As you know these kind of centers receive less and less support because the pro-choice movement is becoming stronger. We have come to a point where operating the center is almost impossible and soon we will be forced to close one of the two offices we have.In order to keep operation we need your help. Our partner center, which is in the US has set up a donations page:  https://connect.egiving.com/macedonia-centers-mission-pro/blue-ridge-womens-center-incIf you want to read more about us visit:  http://supportblueridge.org/macedonia-centers/OrVisit our own international webpage: http://lydiamk.com/If you have any ideas on how to raise more support, please share them with me here on in a private message.Thanks to all that donate or share this info.TLDR; We are in need of donations so we can keep operating. If you would like to support us, please visit the above links to learn more. Thanks.
Here's a list of PRO LIFE Senate candidates in 2018!:Arizona:Donate - https://app.mobilecause.com/form/uA5ycw Volunteer - http://www.az.gop/get-involved/Michigan:Donate - https://penslerforsenate.com/donate/ Volunteer - https://penslerforsenate.com/volunteer/Minnesota:Donate - https://www.housleyforsenate.com/#contribute Volunteer - https://www.housleyforsenate.com/#join-the-teamMissouri:Donate - https://give.victorypassport.com/hawley/donate-today/ Volunteer - http://www.missouri.gop/volunteer/Montana:Donate - https://www.mattformontana.com/donate Volunteer - https://www.mattformontana.com/volunteerNew Mexico:Donate - https://mickrichforsenate.com/donate/ Volunteer - https://mickrichforsenate.com/volunteer/North Dakota:Donate - https://www.kevincramer.org/contribute/ Volunteer - https://www.kevincramer.org/volunteer/Pennsylvania:Donate - https://give.victorypassport.com/barletta/homepage/?source=homepage Volunteer - http://www.pagop.org/signup/Virginia:Donate - https://www.nick4senate.com/contribute/ Volunteer - https://www.nick4senate.com/volunteer/Wisconsin:Donate - https://nicholsonforsenate.com/donate/ Volunteer - https://www.wisgop.org/volunteer/
Joe Donnelly
The man who votes with Planned Parenthood over 2/3 of the time (67%) is not pro life. He's just a good liar. https://www.plannedparenthoodaction.org/congressional-scorecard#IN/
Dan Lipisnki is the ONLY Democrat worth donating to: https://www.lipinskiforcongress.com/secure/donate.html
are there none in new york?
Chele Farley is the only functioning candidate on the Conservative pro life side it seems: https://www.chelefarleyforsenate.com/
is there any evidence she is pro life
She was endorsed by the New York Conservative Party (who are a pro life party) and her opponent (Gillibrand) is bankrolled by the abortion industry.
ok i know gillibrand is insanely pro abortion. I will be voting for farely then!

He and Ruth Bader Ginsburg are both close to retirement, so President Trump could have a big effect on the Supreme Court that could potentially lead to Roe v. Wade getting overturned.
How legit is this? I remember multiple outlets saying he was going to retire last Summer, but it never happened.
It's literally just some Senator trying to start a rumor.
Every few months for the past couple years he’s rumored to be about to retire. I remember back when it was “he’s waiting to see if Trump or Hillary wins, then he’ll retire.”
We need a strong Republican Senate to make sure his replacement is good. If Democrats take control then the game's up.
When I first saw this article from lifenews.com, its title was: Here are some other articles about this story: newsweek.com: Will Trump Get To Name Another Supreme Court Justice This Year, Shaping U.S. Policy For Decades? peoplespunditdaily.com: Retirement Rumors Surrounding Justice Kennedy Resurface BizPac Review: Supreme Court Justice Kennedy reportedly getting ready to retire this summer oann.com: Justice Kennedy May Retire Sometime Around Early Summer, According to Senator Heller I am a bot trying to encourage a balanced news diet. These are all of the articles I think are about this story. I do not select or sort articles based on any opinions or perceived biases, and neither I nor my creator advocate for or against any of these sources or articles. It is your responsibility to determine what is factually correct.
Good morning, I live in Ontario, Canada. We are very liberal and very pro choice. We are told that abortion is a settled argument and is not up for debate. Any debate or questioning of this is met with very harsh reaction. I was shouted down on facebook and reddit becuase I suggested that I would rather see a baby up for adoption then aborted. I also have this 'controversial' opinion that a 14 year old girl should not be allowed to have an abortion with out their parents knowledge. (legal in Ontario by the way). I dwell on the harm and pain abortion is causing, but I am scared to voice my opinions because of the back lash. I never shy away from my opinions especially when they go against the norm. I dont want to compare this to coming out as gay, but I feel sort of in the closet. Has anyone else had to deal with this? Does anyone else live in a Liberal province/state where the prolife movement is the minority?
I’m a woman and I live in a very pro choice city and state. I have been told I’m anti woman because I am anti abortion. I’ve heard it all, even though I am pro life I have many friends who are extremely liberal and pro choice, I do try and educate them as they do me and I’ve definitely lost friends because of it. But it’s a matter of if people don’t like you because you don’t condone the act of murder on innocent lives then so be it. Don’t stop speaking the truth. The right choice will always be a constant battle and will face the most prosecution. Keep persisting.
It's actually socially safer to come out as gay.
I’m gay and totally agree
My family laughed at me and called me ignorant when I "came out" as pro-life. My family threw a party and gave my sister thousands of dollars for her wedding when she told everyone she was marrying a woman. I got nothing. Not saying it should have been the reverse because I love my sister but...god does it feel shitty to be written off like that.
That's terrible!
What’dja want, a baby shower?
I meant I got nothing when I got married to help pay for expenses in comparison to what she got.
Not the same as what you're talking about but similar and something I've been pondering for a while.  I don't know how to express my opinions about the topic because am I male and a lot of the opposing opinions focus on "women's rights" etc.
Well thats what I often hear. I am male, therefore I am not even allowed to have an opinion, or I am anti women. The conversation I referred to in my post about not wanting 14 year olds getting abortions, a guy actually told me I want to remove all women's ability to make health choices and their 'political voice'...
I don't think you can have a rational conversation with someone who has already decided what your view point is by extrapolation.
That attack is a dead giveaway that you're dealing with an irrational person.
Don't worry, I am female and get accused of the exact same thing as you. Time to be loud and bold about abortion. Normalize prolife and make it unthinkable to support murder.
It has always been my personal opinion that women do have a special position in this debate, as they are one of the two most directly impacted parties (the other being the child, of course). So women must be heard and consulted on any issue relating to pregnancy. However, being heard and trumping all other view points are two different things. If women did not have the vote, for instance, and we were legislating in regard to pregnancy, I feel that would involve injustice.  If women could not voice their opinions on this matter, that would certainly be a problem. But many pro-choicers making arguments against a man having an opinion are not saying that.  They want men to have no say in the discussion of a moral situation that impacts everyone. Women do have a voice and a vote, no less than any man.  But its not just their lives at stake, not even just their choice.  Men have a choice to make as well: even if we cannot be pregnant, we have a responsibility to the powerless to speak for those who cannot speak for themselves.  And I can tell you without a moment's hesitation that they would want to live, even given hardships.  Those children might well ask us to consider helping their mothers and themselves through providing resources for them, but they don't want to be dead.
As a woman who got pregnant at 17 with no money or support, they still don't think my opinion is valid.
Absolutely women should have a huge voice in the debate. Or in any other issue for that matter. But to shut me down just on the basis of my gender is not right. I am not homeless does that mean I have no right to an opinion on homelessness?
Quite so.  I agree entirely.
But I was a fetus. So don't I have a special position in the debate?
We all were at that stage of development, but for better or worse, adult men are no longer threatened with the situation of either being killed or having to gestate a child inside you. My "special position" point is merely that we should not make a decision without at least listening to the input of women, and there have been times in the past where women's opinions would have been of less interest to those in power. If anything, if we really want to end abortions, as opposed to merely making them illegal (although that is a necessary step), we need to understand why a woman would choose to have one.  Otherwise, they will find ways to do so that are not legal.  That's no excuse to make them legal, but it is definitely something we need to understand to eradicate the practice.
Trust me, it doesn't matter if you're a male or a female to these people at the end of the day. I'm a female and I still get attacked in abortion debates, they'll always find a reason. If you're a male then "no uterus no opinion" (unless your opinion matches theirs), if you're a female you're a gender traitor. If someone is not willing to examine your arguments for what they are and prefers to go straight for ad hominem attacks against you then you know they don't have an actual argument.
Tell them we do have rights and choices about our body and pregnancy. Abstinence,  contraception, adoption.
I’m in Vancouver and feel your pain. Did you know it’s legal to abort a baby during anytime before birth in Canada?  This country is messed up.
I thought it was 24 weeks, unless there is danger to the mother?
There are no federal restrictions on abortion. Supreme Court of Canada decided it was “a decision between the pregnant woman and her doctor” since R. v Morgantaler. That said, doctors can refuse to perform the procedure for various reasons, and provide viable alternatives, such as adoption or foster care. But - in Ontario at least - provincial law dictates that if the GP will not “prescribe” terminating the pregnancy, they must refer the mother to someone who can. Which can violate the doctor’s own conscious, if they hold such beliefs; refusing to do so may cost them their medical license. Laws like this vary from province to province. It is a deeply concerning issue. And the politicians willing to discuss changes to it are usually also associated with “Americanization” which no one here really wants.
People can be vicious. I don't even mention it unless asked and I was asked my opinion on something regarding abortion at my lunch table. I calmly told them I'm against abortion and they all blew up on me. It was crazy how rude they were when I wasn't even obnoxious about it.
I can totally relate to this. I didn't talk about abortion but I've kind of been forced to since my country Ireland is having a referendum with potential allowing abortion on demand for the first 12 weeks of pregnancy. I've talked to my friends and tried to convince them, it hasn't worked yet however i'm going to keep trying. I've talked to my mum and it seems she's mostly prolife, (she isnt as prolife as me but at least she isn't for abortion on demand, i think abortion should only be for saving the life of the mother), i haven't talked to my dad or sister(although my sister is a year too young to vote anyway) "coming out as pro-life" is a great way of putting it. In fact I would say it is HARDER to come out as pro-life than gay. I'm bisexual (although i much prefer the opposite sex) and i think coming out as prolife is WAY harder than coming out as gay. When i "came out" as prolife i was shocked to see how many of my friends were pro-abortion. Quiet scary really. I plan on doing some door to door cavassing to convince people of the pro-life cause and to get the prolifers to get out there and vote. I think it's great that you stand up for whats right regardless of the majority says is right. I also agree with you and don't think it's controversial about the 14 year old girl scenerio. Ugh canada is just awful when it comes to abortion. I was wondering do you have any anti-abortion politicians there that you could vote into power?
The far left NDP party is firmly pro-choice, the center left Liberals are the same. In fact our PM Justin Trudeau said he would not allow any prolife MPs in this caucus. The conservatives are split, half are pro life and half are pro choice. We just passed a new rule that any group that is prolife can not receive federal job funding. So church groups and non profits that run summer camps would be cut off unless they changed there stance to pro choice.
https://www.itstartsrightnow.ca National not for profit specifically dedicated to electing pro life politicians in Canada so we can get a law
That’s disgusting. Let’s ban people with different views! Wondering if it’s because they know the truth about abortion is so vile they need to silence it.
Live in Seattle and deal with it on a daily basis. I even was part of the pro-life club in undergrad on a Christian campus yet was reviled because being pro-life isn’t progressive enough. I honestly fear I’d lose my job if I revealed my political opinions. The way I approach it is basically putting that seed of doubt into people’s minds. Like when people assume I’m pro-choice automatically, they’ll usually say something positive about Planned Parenthood looking for agreement. I’ll then be like “Yeah, but don’t you think it’s a little fucked up selling baby parts on the black market?” Usually they’ll be like “Yeah, I guess it is pretty fucked up”. Just try and come out on the most extreme pro-choice position. Most people will agree with you and you’ll slightly open their eyes to how much more nuanced and complex the issue is beyond “IT’S ABOUT A WOMAN’S RIGHT TO CHOOSE!!!”
People are defensive when it comes to their idols, don't be surprised
Maryland. Feels. Though I'm in one of the more conservative counties, tbh. Though the mayorship and whole Board of Alderman of the county seat went Dem this year, IDK why tf they did.
Hello fellow Canadian. You are not alone. I know the feeling. Voted for Tanya Granic Allen and now will vote for Ford as he said parents should be part of the decision as to whether a minor receives abortion. Stay strong and true to your beliefs. There are a lot more of us out there. Prochoicers tend to be more vocal. I think we  need to start being more vocal too. Always calm and rational but vocal.
https://www.itstartsrightnow.ca
I am hoping Ford will at least start the conversation and implement some smart regulations.
I was openly pro-life at U of T downtown. It was tough but I regret nothing.
Reddit loves censoring all non-leftist opinions, get used to it.
It can be hard and isolating, I too live in a very liberal metropolis. My religious community is great and a really nice break from friends and family. They are supportive when I want to go to March for Life or volunteer at my local CPC. I also get a nice community feel on Pro-Life Facebook pages (Dank Pro-Life Memes and Albany Rose:Post Abortive Pro-Life are some of my favorites). Almost all of my friends and I have agreed to disagree on abortion and since all those friends are male I just live with the fact that they personally won’t be aborting anybody. It’s sort of a blacklisted topic in my circle so it doesn’t come up frequently at all. I’m also careful about what shows/video games/movies I participate in with friends just due to the very heavy pro-abortion culture we live in and how it’s portrayed in the media. As a PL man you are going to get a lot of hate. That’s unfortunately inevitable at this point in history. You have to roll with the punches and just know that a man who doesn’t stand up for the defenseless is no man. We need Pro-Life men too, and you’re allowed to have a voice in this. I would say to prepare yourself for the unavoidable conversations and discussions that will come up. Dank Pro-Life Memes has a very informative Youtube channel that discusses common PC arguments and rebuttals. Try to respond kindly and calmly at all times. Getting worked up and angry never solves anything, and only serves to alienate the PL movement. Oh, and just never call a post-abortive woman a murderer. It solves nothing. Post-abortive women are victims, even if they don’t know it.
I always hear, "if you knew someone that had an abortion you would feel different". I good friend of mine had an abortion, she had a really hard time with it afterwards. She needed counseling, antidepressants. I think that says a lot for "just removing some tissue".
And if they seen a dead baby after an abortion or miscarriage they would change there opinion. Trust me as a woman I’ve been there and I am firmly prolife. It’s easy for young teenagers and emotional thinkers to put themselves in the mothers shoes but much harder to use logic to see the babies prescriptive.
I think most Pro-Life folks know a post abortive woman! My step mom had an abortion as a teen. She was pressured into it by the father and his family and she is JUST starting to forgive herself more than 30 years later. She struggled with alcoholism through her 20’s as a result. If she had truly had her choices honored her son would be a grown man by now. She also had multiple miscarriages that she believes were related to her past abortion—whether they truly were or not I cannot say. Pro-Choice people can really undermine how abortion can negatively impact a woman’s mental health, and I think that’s a shame. A lot of post abortive women regret their abortions, and that should be validated.
At this point in my life, I'm of the opinion that if you disagree with me on this matter, I'll respect that, but you're still wrong. I have plenty of pro-choice friends and abortion basically becomes taboo aside from social media, and we don't comment on each other's posts because we know it's a waste of time and detrimental to our friendships.
So, I'm pro choice, and I want to say it is terrible that people can't listen to your opinion just because it is different. I firmly believe that everyone's opinion deserves the same respect as your own as long as that person actively thinks it through. And obviously as long as you do the same. If this rule is followed, then you should always be able to listen to a differing opinion because you are always open to it changing yours. People who dismiss you and belittle you are not open to changing their mind, and are probably not actively thinking through their own opinion. I'm sorry you are surrounded by that. That really sucks.
Thank you, I always try my best to debate respectfully but its really difficult when I am just personally attacked. Even if I ask clarifying questions im usually just shouted down as being a misogynist,
Yeah. That's just not right if them. There are I ton of extremely legit reasons someone would be prolife over prochoice. If they can't see that, that is their failing.
Check out the Campaign Life Coalition.
I have a few pro-life friends from Ontario, you definitely aren't alone :) I know it can be tough, I live in one of the 9 US states where abortion on demand is legal through all 9 months of pregnancy but all we can do is stick to the truth, don't attack, don't be hateful back, just shine light on the horror of the legal killing of a defenseless human being.
I live in Toronto and do pro-life activism regularly. It’s a hostile world out there against pro-lifers but I’ve seen people change their minds through conversation many times and more people than you think are open minded. You’ve chosen to side with the truth that all humans deserve human rights and I promise you it’s worth it! Find other pro-lifers, they are everywhere!

An appeal of a blocking of a ban. Took me a moment.

no one should be forced to get an abortion against their choice. it's called proCHOICE for a reason
Like many euphemisms that the pro-choice side uses, the reality is often strikingly different than the theory.
It's not a euphemism; they mean literal choice for the person whose body is going through this process. if someone is forced into something, that's not choice by definition
Pressure from boyfriends who don't feel like committing, parents who don't want to deal with it, society telling you that you're useless unless you erase any potential obstacle towards how they want your life to go.  Sometimes I feel like it would be better called: "pro-choice we want you to make".  At least no one on the pro-life side is pretending that we're a-ok with whatever you decide.
You're absolutely correct!
Reproductive justice seeks justice for women who want choice; if your boyfriend or family is pressuring you, thats not choice. that's coercion, and its wrong. its more of the same (people wanting to control women's bodies), pro-choice is moving toward no shame, no stigma, no coercion, where women are free to make the choices that are healthiest and safest for them. if you choose to carry to term, then you should have the resources necessary to do that safely and healthily. if you choose abortion, then you should have the resources necessary to do that safely and healthily.
I think we're clear that that's always been the theory.  Aside from the deeply troubling inability of the pro-choice side to see that a human is being killed, which negates any and all discussion of "safety", the reality is that abortion solves no problem that can't be solved in a different manner.
Actually the last part isn't true. Adoption takes care of unwanted parenting, but only abortion will help you if you have an unwanted pregnancy. I had an abortion after rape and my problems, of course, were solved because I never in my life wanted or planned or tried to get pregnant. An abortion was definitely the right choice for me. An unwanted pregnancy cannot be solved in a different manner.
I understand why you might make that decision, but I certainly regret that someone had to die due to it.
I don't think anyone had to die. Aborting a fetus isn't murder. Using that kind of language is severely skewed toward your view and helps recreate the stigma against abortion that harms many people, actual people, living today. It was me deciding I did not want my body to create a life and go through that trauma and pain after I was raped.
Although I am sympathetic to pro-life people who use that terminology, I am careful to not label abortion as murder.  Murder is unlawful killing, and abortion is currently legal. Nevertheless, it is still a homicide, albeit a legal one.  And simple legality does not equate to a moral or ethical activity. The reality is that if there wasn't a life there, I wouldn't care.  I really have zero interest in messing with someone else's life for shits and giggles. The problem was, in the case of rape, while I fully understand you had no real choice in it, a life still came into being.  That is not a great way for things to start for the child or parent in that situation, but it doesn't change the fact someone came into being who was alive once, but who is now dead. I am well aware that pro-choice proponents have argumentation about how that is not a person worth considering, but I consider the reasoning to be deficient, and frankly self-serving.

How do people think actually murdering someone (pointing and shooting a gun at a separate life, a person, who has nothing to do with your life or body) is the same as abortion (me, having a decision over what happens to my body and my future, what organism has consent to utilize my body and my literal wellbeing)
We are all dependent on one other in some fashion.  The separation we expect as individuals is mostly fantasy in human terms. Most people who use the terminology use it as short hand for a killing which is morally equivalent to murder.  Which is to say a separate, albeit temporarily dependent, human being was killed for the benefit of the mother (or those convincing the mother to abort) when the existence of the child did not threaten the life of the parent. If this had been a self-defense situation, it would be a balancing of life vs. life, but here, this is a consideration of a death to maintain a standard of living, not protect someone's actual life. Thus, the concept is very closely related to justifications for murder, although again, I recognize that it is not murder in a pedantic sense.


Considering that those walk outs were endorsed/run by the schools, almost certainly not. Protest is only allowed when it is not actually protest at all.
Abortion does seem like it would be a good example of another subject where students would have an opinion.  Both gun ownership and abortion are legal activities which people both support and oppose.  They are also matters of conscience and newsworthy. So it is interesting that they'll let kids walk out over gun control, but suspend a teacher for simply talking about the possibility and parallels of doing a similar thing for pro-life causes. Obviously, there are probably some details missing from the story here, but on the face of it, it seems like you are silenced if you bring up something controversial, unless it happens to be the controversy that the media or school administration approves of.  I am interested to know if there is more to this story.
It amuses me when I see the exact same arguments made for abortion and gun control and yet people are unable to understand them when the other side uses them.
The weirdest thing about all of this is that the whole point of a walk-out is to be breaking a rule by skipping class for a "purpose." But this one was endorsed by the school system, media, and faculty. So it's not even a walk-out! It's a glorified "half-day!" What's more is, these kids aren't even acting as individuals and They're not brave. They're uneducated sheep with no thoughts of their own. It's actually sad, to be honest.
Well, every year at the march for life, hundreds of Catholic Schools give their kids permission to go to DC.  I'm sure many of them are in it for the free bus ride and the lulz, but I'd like to think they are also committed to the cause. To me, its interesting to compare the media treatment of the thousands of students who go every year in freezing cold to the March for Life (crickets chirping) and these student walkouts on guns (thunderous enthusiasm).
I think the main difference is that Catholic schools support an obvious protest for the D.C. trip. Yesterday's walk out was SUPPOSED to be against the schools and government itself. If the school is supporting the walk out, it's not a protest at all.
I think the one tepid justification I'd give for that treatment is that the anti-gun rallies are an extension of a "hot" news story.  Everyone wants to see fallout and dramatic actions after something like a school shooting. The media wants to keep people glued to their TVs or browsers talking about it and if a school was to actually enforce their rules, those schools know that the media would incorporate them into the story as a "bad guy". So, I don't really blame the schools for simply permitting the event and getting it over with.  My only problem with this scenario is that they would silence a teacher who is only talking about the possibility of another reason for a walk out.  It makes me think they may be trying to simply stop any further disruptions in their tracks and since it isn't on the news, they feel the parent protests are more dangerous to them. It almost makes me think the school doesn't care one way about either topic, but that it is more concerned with crushing anything that would cause controversy unless it is too visible for them to simply crush it. The may merely be a case of simple public school bureaucratic cowardice and overreaction.
Couldn't you say the same thing about pro life students walking out over abortion? They're not brave or educated they're just sheep following pro life rhetoric. At what point do people have agency over their own actions? Why do you have to be 18 to be making informed political decisions? How much adversity do you have to face before your opinion is valid? I don't think you should be so quick to dismiss them anyway.
Are kids walking out of school over abortion? Are schools promoting kids to walk out of school against abortion? I believe a teacher was just suspended from her job for suggesting maybe kids should walk out to protest abortion. Also, shooting up a school is illegal. Abortion isn't. And one could argue abortion kills hundreds of thousands of babies every year, who otherwise could've been successful and beneficial to the world of given a chance.
I see you've ignored my point.
Hmm... I don't believe I have.
Wait, was this "Pro-Life students can't walk out over abortion" or "Pro-Life students can't walk out at all?"
Toys R Us’s baby problem is everybody’s baby problem http://wapo.st/2FN2ewBThere just weren't enough babies.
This is such bullshit. Toys r us and babies r us were horribly overpriced, even with discounts you could get the same stuff off Amazon for cheaper or the same as their DISCOUNTED price. I'm pro life, but crap like this just hurts your credibility.
Yeaaa... this.  every time i went into Toys R Us i felt like a terrible parent cuz there was basically nothing i could afford. If i wasn't Catholic, that kind of thing might have actually put me OFF of having more kids and/or made me be more prochoice lol. The dumbest things were expensive and i was like wow if this is how you make a kid happy i suck at it. notice the thrift stores aren't closing down, cuz parents can actually afford to go there.
I have a very hard time understanding that viewpoint when I hear it. No one bought me toys as a child, but it never bothered me. It never crossed my mind that I was supposed to have toys or that I was missing anything.
Oh, neither me. But as a first time parent i remember walking in there and feeling like crap, like i must be weird for thinking it was so expensive. Apparently not lol

My first son is a Plan B failure who i initially intended to abort.  But I disagree with almost everything in this article lol. I don't understand what most of it actually has to do with unplanned, contracepted babies.
The comments on this article are a mess.


Not technically. Canada has no constitutional right to free speech.
Calling them clinics is so dehumanizing to the children.
So is foetus, terminate, abortion, all of those words. It's the only way they can live with themselves.

The mod has been removed and the ban has been rescinded.
Wow, seriously? That's amazing. How did you find that out?
He/she is the top mod there.
Oh derp.
Dude... I was sharpening my pitchfork... Now what an I gonna do
Sell your pitchfork at r/pitchforkemporium
Wow. I'm impressed. Thank you. And yes, because it's hard to tell if someone on the internet is sincere, I'm being sincere.
You’re a good dude.
/u/mwatwe01 thank you for standing up for the unborn. It's stunning to me how pointing out that abortion kills the unborn is somehow a religious statement, much less that it warrants a ban. Are pro-choicers this fragile? I would not ban someone for coming in here and saying pregnancy can be unsafe for women.
Exactly. I couldn't possibly be using basic biology, right? Most pro-choicers concede abortion kills something. They just rationalize that the something is not as important as the freedom and convenience of the mother.
Hey buddy, I just want you know that I appreciate what you did today.
Thank you! I appreciate that.
Speaking for people who don't have the chance to speak for themselves is something we should all do.  Thank you.
That mod got really triggered. I guess he/she can't handle the truth.
They really got unhinged when I messaged them back thanking them for the ban and demonstrating their true colors. Their response to me was to "GO THE FUCK AWAY".
Reddit mods in general are a different breed. They are like that mall security guard that thinks he's a cop and they'll take their little shred of authority and use it to the greatest extent they can...
True. Low self-esteem. Otherwise inexplicable behavior.
...
Triggered
I'm a pro-life athiest. I may be somewhat of a nutjob, but there's nothing religious about me ;) It's a human right issue, not a religious issue.
I mean...I am a religious nut job (evangelical minister, actually). Just not in that statement.
And I'm an atheist and have said literally the same thing.
Apparently all biologists are now religious nuts because they state that unborn humans are killed by abortion.
Same man. I get accused of being some kind of crypto/catacomb Christian. It's probably happened about 3 or 4 times online!
Weird. Did /u/watwe01 mention religion at all?
Nah, they just realized they were reading good logic so religion was likely.
Whoever disagrees with them = religious nut job And they think they're logical.
I’ve had this experience multiple times. I was pro-life when I was a secular, new agey, progressive. Now I’m a Christian and politically independent, but still pro-life. I still use arguments from my irreligious days and still get flippantly dismissed for “forcing religion” onto people.
I'm not religious, and my husband actively dislikes religion, yet we both agree that life begins at conception. It's amazing how they think only religious people have morals. I suppose it makes sense given that they're amoral atheists.
The internet (especially reddit) is far, far, far more liberal and pro abortion than people  who aren't on it.
Yeah they are liberal on abortion even for leftists.
Also living in a state that is Conservative makes them even more extreme in their reaction against it.
Really? I would think they'd be more used to it, having to be exposed to conservative human beings to some degree (as opposed to like people who live in Berkeley or San Francisco).
If they lived in a state like California they would be much happier with state policy on abortion and less angry. In a state that is against their ideology on abortion they are far angrier.
Reddit seems to be the extreme case. There are many pro-life people on Twitter and Tumblr.
I once offered a very reasonable explanation of why I think unborn lives deserve basic human rights and intentionally did not mention God, religion, souls, or any metaphysical concept whatsoever. I was also called a religious nut job. They have to resort to stupid ad-hominem attacks because deep down they know we’re right and the cognitive dissonance is distressing
I live in Kentucky, so I am on some of the subs.  There are really militant pro-choicers on the r/Kentucky and r/Louisville.   In fact one is a mod for a pro-choice subreddit.  Her and I get in to it.  A lot.
That's every state sub, because they overtly have a focus on politics...and this is Reddit.
It's amazing that Reddit is so left wing that a comment as tame as that gets that kind of reaction from mods on a subreddit for one of the most heavily Republican states in the country.
From a mod, who is now no longer a mod as a result.
Pro choice= sadism
It is disappointing to see how free speech is something to shut down instead of celebrating.
This is sad. I realize most (but not all) pro-life people are religious, but you don't need religious beliefs to see that a fetus is a baby and abortion is murder. I'm sorry you got banned, but from the looks of it, that's not a community you want to be part of anyway.
FYI the ban was overruled by /r/kentucky's head mod, and the mod in question dismissed.

Bad bot.
Who knew that expressing a pro-life sentiment was religious!

I keep seeing people say she's talking about vocal cords but I'm fairly certain she's referring to the umbilical cord which kills the fetus. It doesn't matter if the fetus can scream or not, it doesn't matter if the abortionist acknowledges this or not -- abortion is horrific regardless.
That tweet reads really poorly.  It would probably be less confusing if you couldn't confuse umbilical cord with vocal cords. That said, if my English teacher was to instruct me on what the subject of that following sentence was, it would the larynx, not the umbilical cord. What is instructive about this is that this abortionist didn't even have the presence of mind to even realize how horrifying that could come out.  That reads as extremely careless or even jaded to me. And frankly, it's only slightly less horrifying when you assume umbilical cord. "What hogwash!  I kill them well before they can make any noise!  What kind of professional do you take me for?"
Right, exactly. No matter how you interpret it, it was a bad move.
I don't think this was a good tweet from a PR perspective, but yes, you're right about the umbilical cord.
Look at the replies. She’s really doubling down on the cluelessness
Abortionists know exactly what they're doing and love it. Pure evil serial killers who tear apart the bodies of helpless babies and get rich off their sick pleasure. Abortion must be a capital crime.
oh my god
What relevance is "leftist"?
OP is a right-wing tool, that's the relevance.
Yeah, I'm sure OP just selectively ignores all the right-wing abortionists ;)
That's because the right-wing abortionists are sneaky.  It's almost as if they're not even there.
Yes, just to make the left-wing look bad
Use whatever excuse you like. Any halfway intelligent person can see through it.
You're totally right though, OP didn't need to say "left-wing" at all. It was totally needless because we all already know that abortionists are left-wing. :)
No shit. But if that's sufficient for you to feel content wth someone else's sleazy bullshit, you do you.
You must be privy to something i didn't see. Oh well
Only OP's username and post history.
So what's sleazy? Not liking the left wing?
I feel like this is going to be a pointless exercise. But why do you think OP used the "leftist" qualifier?

"Zomg, right wingers are tools." - implying there are leftist pro-lifers
It is sleazy to associate abortionists with the left wing but it is not sleazy to call the right wing "tools," see. The former is just partisan propaganda and the latter is entirely neutral and not partisan at all
When attacking the right it's always justifiable cuz fuck those guys amirite
Too true
I said neither of those things. But sure there are leftist pro-lifers.
I don't think so
I doubt they care what you think.
K
Hi
Nice to meet you!

I just got banned by a mod in /r/kentucky for arguing for this. I will wear it like a badge of honor.
I saw that. Lovely how they'll ban you as a "religious nutjob", but can't see the irony of them being an atheist and pro-abortion nutjob.
Choo Choo!!! Ban train comin' through (I'm probably about to get banned too).
Surprisingly I have not been
I’m pretty sure I’m about to get banned as well.
Wow, just read through the conversation. I'm glad at least one other pro-abort on that sub noted how stupid that mod was being.
Here is one of their comments: So apparently, we are supposed to have abortion to combat poverty. You don't have to provide social services, if you just kill anyone who might need it.
They are so classist it's mind boggling. Am i to believe that if they lost their job or the economy tanked, they'd kill themselves to avoid the horrific torture of being one of the poors? Why are they taking these liberties on behalf of others?
I'm not very political. But I mostly align with liberal values. But I firmly oppose abortion. It is not a political issue for me. It is a matter of principle. Life is life. Everyone should be entitled to their own life. The fetus has the right to their own body. It shouldn't be eliminated unless it says it wants to die. The fetus can't talk so we must assume it wishes to live because all lifeforms do. Pro-abortion people say "it's just a bunch of cells" but they refuse to realize past 12 weeks it has assumed a human form. So I see no logic in opposing this kind of law. If you are so irresponsible to not use birth control, THEN given a couple months to legally terminate the pregnancy without hurting another human being, AND fail to clean up your own mess in that time frame, you do not have the right to terminate life. Accept at least some responsibility. Bring the child to the world and put it up for adoption. (The above paragraph reads somehow misogynistic but it is unintentional. I'm addressing everyone involved in the pregnancy.) I avoid this topic in real life because if I dare voice my value, I get labeled a religious nutjob or misogynistic scum by many liberal friends. So I don't voice it. But when someone says they are for abortion, I lose huge respect for them. It's just another flaw in our universe. People are selfish. Their selfishness turns into cruelty when they deal with beings who have less power than them, such as fetuses. There are Democrats who are pro-life and the democratic party leaders actively suppress their voices for fear of losing votes. I think it's backfiring considering their recent election results. I am not American and I have no political affiliation. I am not Christian. I believe in the existence of a god but I don't think Christianity is the only expression of it. I am just a person who loves peace and harmony. I respect atheists and their beliefs. Just because I value life, it doesn't mean I am a religious fanatic who wants to ban civilization from all known countries.
Interesting point from a rarely heard point of view. You must not fit well into identity politics' favourite categories du jour.
I stay true to my values and love people. That's all I do.
Yes voters. Pro life opinions are pretty much non existent these days when you get to any level above dog catcher as a Democrat politician. Which have been very good for them so far.
What is "human form"? An embryo is human; any form it takes is "human form" by definition.
The right-wing delivers again.
Completely pointless as long as Roe v. Wade stands.
Not pointless just not very effective. This is a step up the mountain to victory.
I mean, when it gets blocked by the federal courts, what was accomplished exactly?
It is the first step to reaching the federal courts. The federal courts can't keep this up forever.
This step has been consistently been taken for decades. They can keep it up forever, they’re not going to say “okay, this is annoying. We’ll overrule Roe”
Well yes, but the federal courts have got to improve sometime, and we need to keep this up so that when they do, they'll have the motivation they need.
Roe can't be overturned without a law like this to challenge it.
On the otherhand, there will never be a case to overturn Roe v. Wade so long as we don't keep passing laws that will get challenged and taken to SCOTUS.  This probably won't make it through the current court, but it takes a while for a case to make it there.  Two years from now, the court could have a different composition.



This is an anecdote of one person. I will not bring any argument with the story, for I have none. But I have seen pro-abortion people bring up their argument with hypothetical cases of babies with birth defects. I would like to share one of the other cases that can happen.I found out when I found my father's journal in the attic. I did not know he used to keep a journal. He is stern and not very talkative. So when I dusted the cover and opened it to the first page, I was surprised by his thoughts and feelings written in his characteristically elegant handwriting.Below are brief summaries of his entries because I don't think I can put an entire journal in a Reddit post.First page"a general ramble on human existence"Some pages later...I don't know if I should move to [biggest city in the country]. Will I find employment? Do I have the credentials?Some pages later...I met [Mom's name]. She is energetic and playful. She is like sunshine to my gloomy days. I think less of my worries when she's around.[Mom's name] is enthusiastic about my plan to get out of this town. She says she can support us with her teacher's salary until I find employment. What did I do to deserve her?Many pages later...[My name] is born. I went to the hospital at 3:00 AM. The fatigue melted when I got to see him. I will make the world the best place for him. I will give him what I didn't have. I can do it if I put my mind to it.Boss told me to take a day off. Strange.Boss treated me to a dinner. Everyone is nice to me. Everyone congratulates. I'm embarrassed and happy at the same time.Some pages later... (He doesn't have many entries. I suspect the work kept him busy. One entry to account for several months. You get it.)[My name] is very talkative like [Mom's name]. I guess I'll be a loner in this family.[My name] likes books and is talented at playing the piano. Should I nurture this talent of him? Will a musician's life be bearable for him?Some pages laterUnexpected guest. [Mom's name] found out on Thursday but decided to tell me today. We spent the whole day talking. I am not sure. We are not affluent. Our parents can't help us. Are we capable of having another human in this family? I do not know. But I need to decide quickly. All is muddled. I sense the wretched uncertainty creeping up. I feel like my 22-year-old self again. This is bad.[Mom's name] said she wants to keep it. I can't say no. She says we will greet destiny as it comes to us. I am not sure. But she's the one who's carrying it, so her opinion counts more.We decided to keep it. If it's a boy, we'll name it [Brother's name], if it's a girl, we'll name it [Hypothetical sister's name].Fast forward many years,[Brother's name] grew up as a quiet but athletic boy who loves football. Then in high school, his grades shot up, nobody knows why. He graduated valedictorian and is studying astrophysics in the best university in the country.[My name] grew up as a talkative boy who loved books and art. Then he got depressed and become non-talkative. Then he got depressed further and lost his love for books and art. He climbed through his misery for years. Things are looking up these days. He feels happy and is rebuilding his life.Like I promised, I don't have an argument (to shove down your throat, like many do on the Internet). I just wanted to share a story. I am non-political and non-religious, but maybe my brother is the reason why I am against abortion.I keep this value in me because this is a contentious topic. But if I am faced with the same choice as my dad, I will do as he did. I have no right to other people's lives and their decisions. But I have all the rights to mine.My brother's existence made me believe: Everyone deserves life.I also believe: Possibilities shouldn't be extinguished.But I will not force my belief to anyone.I wish peace and harmony to everyone reading this.You are precious. You have life. Cherish it and do it justice.Peace,Random Internet Person
There does seem to be a lot of focus on worst case scenarios, and those definitely need to be addressed. But I agree that ultimately, most of the cases of abortion aren't about someone with Down's Syndrome or the child of a rape.  They're about otherwise average, or even above average people like the rest of us, who will never see the light of day because someone convinced their parent that they couldn't possibly raise that child. I think we need to give people the help they need to make that easier, but I'll just say right out that it is definitely possible to succeed in situations like that.  You can make it, and there will be people who can help. Stephen Hawking died today.  I feel like he might well have been pro-choice (I really don't know), but I also feel like that if someone had tested him in the womb and noticed that he might have been one of the 5-10% of ALS cases which are genetically related, they might have decided to abort him "for his own good". It isn't like they wouldn't have been right about his eventual disability.  He was profoundly disabled, and probably shouldn't have even lived past two years, let alone to 76.  And yet, he succeeded nonetheless.  Would his life have been better if he hadn't been born?  I sincerely doubt it.
That's where I am and it's hard to find people inside my bubble who also lean pro-life.
Only economically. I am for more welfare and massive taxes on those who can afford them. Socially I'm pure conservative
That's pretty strange, most people are more likely to lean left on social issues than vice versa.
Hispanics and blacks are a pretty good example of groups who lean left wing on the economy but are quite conservative socially.
That's true
I'm aware. It's even fashionable lately to be the quirky middle ground by saying "I'm fiscally conservative but SOCIALLY liberal, so like, don't worry heehee!" These people are very good at making friends but not at thinking. I believe in the poverty trap and i believe what people do matters.
Uhh I wouldn't assume anyone with any particular group of stances is "not good at thinking," that's pretty ungracious and presumptuous.
I am on a prolife sub because i think the current wind of prochoice is bad thinkin.
Right but a combination of "fiscal conservative and socially liberal" or "fiscally liberal and socially conservative" doesn't necessarily mean someone is a bad thinker. Even being pro-choice doesn't necessarily mean someone is a bad thinker. Are tons of pro-choicers bad thinkers? Yes. Are tons of pro-lifers bad thinkers? Yes. Tons of people are bad thinkers, but none of the positions you've mentioned necessitate bad thinking.
Im sorry if i offended you
I'm not offended. I'm pointing out that your accusation is invalid.
That describes me down to a tee.
I'm not quite as far left as i use to be (good bye  anarcho-syndicalism)  but I'm still pretty far left, which makes life interesting come November. protect the children, or protect the planet they will live on? Why do those have to be on different sides of the ballot..
Yes. You don't even have to subscribe to the right or left to see abortion as wrong.
Totally agree. Abortion is a human rights violation, not a political stance.
Not me but there are such people. I don't really feel like I take stock with "left" or "right" in general and have basically no-one in my world who agrees with me on things.
There are many positions that the left takes which actually would suggest that they would want to take a more inclusive view of life and personhood, but in this case, they don't. Realistically, it is because it seems like it clashes with what I'd just call "pant-suit" feminism.  To them a women can be whatever she wants to be, as long as you make sure that want you want to be is an ambitious business leader or professional.  If you actually take a path which might hold back your education or career, you're holding back women's rights. While I know that many women do get pushed into lives they would prefer not to lead, especially in regard to child rearing, I feel like there is always a better way to address that situation than killing their children.
Eh I definitely lean left on a lot of social issues. I would say I'm left when it comes to gay marriage, LGBT rights, non-discrimination, sort of for welfare (I do support some reform), death penalty, war to some degree, feminism, immigration, and some others. However I consider myself an independent. On political tests I seem to fall more left than right. But I still hold some "right" stances such as pro-life, pro-2A, and free speech, probably a few others. I'm also an atheist. If you are non-religious, we have a group on facebook and most of us are fairly left-leaning in the group (though we welcome everyone as long as you are non-religious). If you'd like to join just let me know.
Yep. I am completely liberal on everything except abortion.
I'll copy-paste a comment I just wrote because it is relevant. I'm not very political. But I mostly align with liberal values. But I firmly oppose abortion. It is not a political issue for me. It is a matter of principle. Life is life. Everyone should be entitled to their own life. The fetus has the right to their own body. It shouldn't be eliminated unless it says it wants to die. The fetus can't talk so we must assume it wishes to live because all lifeforms do. Pro-abortion people say "it's just a bunch of cells" but they refuse to realize past 12 weeks it has assumed a human form. So I see no logic in opposing this kind of law. If you are so irresponsible to not use birth control, THEN given a couple months to legally terminate the pregnancy without hurting another human being, AND fail to clean up your own mess in that time frame, you do not have the right to terminate life. Accept at least some responsibility. Bring the child to the world and put it up for adoption. (The above paragraph reads somehow misogynistic but it is unintentional. I'm addressing everyone involved in the pregnancy.) I avoid this topic in real life because if I dare voice my value, I get labeled a religious nutjob or misogynistic scum by many liberal friends. So I don't voice it. But when someone says they are for abortion, I lose huge respect for them. It's just another flaw in our universe. People are selfish. Their selfishness turns into cruelty when they deal with beings who have less power than them, such as fetuses. There are Democrats who are pro-life and the democratic party leaders actively suppress their voices for fear of losing votes. I think it's backfiring considering their recent election results. I am not American and I have no political affiliation. I am not Christian. I believe in the existence of a god but I don't think Christianity is the only expression of it. I am just a person who loves peace and harmony. I respect atheists and their beliefs. Just because I value life, it doesn't mean I am a religious fanatic who wants to ban civilization from all known countries.
I think eventually abortion will be something that everyone (left and right) is against just like how slavery is.
I'm about as far classic-right as you get (monarchist anyone?) but the far left prolifers do exist. I know some IRL!
What do you deem to be far-left?
I am far more left wing than anyone I know on the economy. But much more socially conservative.
I used to be left-everything but not anymore, and abortion was probably one of the first issues i changed my mind on. Still kinda left on some economical stuff & welfare & whatever, but over the past 5 years or so I have leaned more & more right both on economical issues & social issues. If I have to judge myself, I think I am fairly open minded & i feel intrigued when i hear smart people on the left make their case regarding whatever. I am honest to myself as to what reason(s) i am supporting whatever viewpoint, even if the reason is a simple as "just cuz", however i also think i can elaborate fairly well on them because i think about them a lot. That being said, i estimate that around 80% of the time i hear someone on the left make some sort of claim or explain their position or whatever, I cringe & feel spite, mostly because i recognize myself in what is being said & the person saying it.
https://twitter.com/LeahNTorres/status/972969907292848129You know fetuses can’t scream, right? I transect the cord 1st so there’s really no opportunity, if they’re even far enough along to have a larynx.I won’t apologize for performing medicine.
"You know babies can't scream right? Because I take away their ability to scream before I murder them." May God have mercy on her and all abortionists.
Is it wrong for me to want God to be a little unmerciful?
The desire for righteous judgement to be exacted on this person is admirable, but we have to remember that God's Mercy comes before His Justice.
That's true.  I need to remind myself that if it weren't for God's mercy, I would be worse than this woman.
Well... that was absolutely horrifying.



If you are someone with down syndrome I cannot imagine the idea of listening to people saying you should have been killed as a baby.
Sadly, any one of us could have been...
The sad thing is that abortion advocates will dismiss this as yet another hyperbolic comparison to Nazis. Granted, political mudslinging often invokes such hyperbole, and we as a culture surely bear responsibility for allowing it to creep into our language. But—much as in the case of the boy who cried wolf—sincere and heartfelt critique will fall on deaf ears.
Yes, I tire of everything being compared to the Nazis as much as anyone, but... this really is people being killed.  It doesn't matter that they aren't shouting "Sieg Heil" and goosestepping while they do it. I think some people forget that the biggest problem with the Nazis wasn't that they shouted a lot, wore snazzy military uniforms and acted authoritarian. The problem is that they killed a lot of people and did so in an industrial manner the likes of which had never been seen before.  Not even Stalin got the whole hideous process down as well. And now, that very process and the thinking behind it is now being used even more effectively on children.  They dropped the outward appearances and kept the immoral actions and have certainly outstripped the sheer numbers of the Third Reich by now though steady and quiet attrition behind closed doors.
I agree. But that’s the terrible tragedy in all this: As horrific and as identical to the Nazi mindset as the modern abortion of disabled people is, advocates of abortion (whether because they’ve instinctively learned to filter out comparisons to Nazis, or because they’ve found a convenient excuse to be dismissive of a serious problem) will decry this as a sign of their side winning. Many of my own positions have often been compared to those of the Nazis, and in the past I used to brush it aside and ignore the comparison. I now regret that, because defaulting to ignoring people is a tempting course of action to take—that is to say if everybody begins ignoring it, the gravity of the comparison disappears and becomes valueless. Any time such a comparison comes up, it should be taken seriously by both parties in the dispute. Those making the comparison should present their case thoroughly, and those who feel the comparison is weak should explain thoroughly why it doesn’t work. Glenn Beck used to take the lazy approach in using Nazi as a cheap-shot insult, but I am so very glad that as of mid-2016 something clicked in his mind and his approach has become much more thoughtful, focused, and respectable.
Glenn Beck is way to strongly dislike on the left/liberal end of the spectrum for his arguments to do any good. Quite the opposite in fact, his name being attached to this cause can only harm the fight for life.
Perhaps the goal here is not to change the minds of liberals as much as to activate the silent pro-lifers out there?
Like any liberal gives the slightest fuck about what Glenn Beck has to say. This is just virtue signalling.
Glenn Beck calmed down about two years ago, and the way he communicates his worldview is less cynical and much more sincere. He has extended an olive branch to liberals in a number of ways, including warning his fellow conservatives about the dangers of a Trump presidency and showing support for Black Lives Matter.
Can we not?

Whoever saves one life, saves the world.
Yay!!
Fetuses*
/s? Or do you refer to toddlers as “Juvenile homo sapiens between the ages of 12 and 36 months old?” :-)
but thats what toddlers are.
Yes, but we call them toddlers for short. Fetuses are part of the umbrell term “babies.”
fetuses are not babies.
How are they not? They look different, but still... “Baby” isn’t a scientific term.

If you're from PA and not sure if you live in PA-18 then just check here!: http://congressional-district.insidegov.com/
The comment reads, "The Left tell the Right what they can say and the Right tell the Left what they can do with their bodies."I say, "A child's body is not your body." Please help refute the comment, "the Right tell the Left what they can do with their bodies."http://macdailynews.com/2018/03/13/eddy-cue-on-why-nra-tv-is-allowed-on-apples-app-store-for-apple-tv/#comment-1984788
https://blog.equalrightsinstitute.com/autumn-in-the-sovereign-zone-why-its-my-body-i-can-do-what-i-want-wont-do/ Also this depending on whether they mean she can do anything with what's in her body, or she has the right to refuse her body being used to support someone else. https://blog.equalrightsinstitute.com/dfg/
This post was removed because you have a new account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.


Right on!
Last time I checked thou shall not kill was one of the commandments...so yeah he is correct.

I remember a place that supported this a while back, it was part of a chain. They had a sign on the door that said "Arbeit Macht Frei."
If the Nazis didn't champion it then Eugenics would still be in use today.
It still is in use today, they've just toned down the rhetoric and come at the issue differently.  Abortion, genetic manipulation, etc. The Nazis certainly made the idea of straight up killing people of all ages unpopular, but since the right to life is undermined by the abortion "rights" situation, the modern progressive movement has been able to move Aktion T4 behind the closed doors of the abortion clinic.
I believe the case can be made that while abortion may have been intended to be eugenic, birth control is dysgenic. For example, those most responsible with the "best genes" are more likely to use birth control and have very few children. Whereas those least responsible with "bad genes" are more likely to not practice birth control and have many children. Of course often that population overlaps with those most likely to abort.
There's a whole movie with this premise: Idiocracy.
It is, just under a different name. The Nazis would've been jealous of Denmark's efficiency in eliminating their disabled. When you've brainwashed the population to do it themselves, you don't even have to force them.
You don't need to brainwash them. Most families don't want a disabled child and even if it wasn't legal would probably just dump the baby on someone else.
In Canada, eugenics was an official policy in certain provinces until the 1970s.
it was ALWAYS eugenics and genocide
Dear Future Mom  March 21 - World Down Syndrome Day | #DearFutureMom
I'm back and forth berween sadness and joy that I can't have children. Some terrible diseases, at least one fatal, run in my family. I am very pro life, but Tay-Sachs disease is hell. Neural degradation, blindness, deafness, paralysis and eventual death before the age of 5. A child, especially one so young would know nothing but suffering. Thank God I'll never have to make that choice.


Could go either way, and depends on how we deal with the planet and population control through other means.  If there are food and water shortages globally, where massive amounts of people suffer to death, I don't know that abortion will be seen as a crime or murder. I personally think we need to remember the planet while voting, but that's just me. With all the birth control options available in 2018, I don't even know why this is an issue, much less 100 years in the future.  Hopefully by then they will have something like a birth control pill for men.
That's a pretty modest view of the future 100 years from now. We already have a male contraceptive pill and they're even working on a chip implant that you can disable remotely. https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2018/03/18/male-contraceptive-pill-safe-use-does-not-harm-sex-drive-first/amp/
They can't give a reason why abortion isn't murder without trying to morph the meaning of life to fit their agenda. I have faith in humanity that we'll be more serious with blatant murder one day. History repeats itself after all
No. I think we'll routinely be killing old people and brain damaged people and probably straight up infanticide will be fine.
No change there then. Don't know where you are, but in the UK old people, ill people, vulnerable people, people with no one to speak for them (and even those who have) are routinely culled in our NHS, having DNR orders slapped on them whether or not they want them. I worked in the NHS for many years in theatres, and in just our one hospital there were about three abortion lists every week, What's more, these were never cancelled, though major surgery could be. There's no value on human life any more and it sickens me to the core.
I would hope so. We just gotta keep fighting.
I don't know. I can envision a scenario where technology allows us to remove an embryo safely, so there's no justifiable reason to kill it, but I can also envision a scenario where our society extends abortion "rights" until after the baby is actually born. Society doesn't always progress in the right direction, and at least on this issue I think it could go good or bad.
I don't expect to see that in my lifetime and I think 100 years might be a stretch.  Too many people would want to avoid implicating themselves in something that is a recognized crime against humanity.  In a generation or two, perhaps, real progress on human rights in this regard might be possible.
Crime without a doubt. As our technology improves the definition of life becomes earlier and earlier.  We now know babies are cognizant of pain much earlier. Plus I believe Jesus would be back within that time! People will know the truth.
People have known the truth regarding it for a large part of human history. Sadly society has regressed in some ways
We freeze embryos now indefinitely and no one gives it a second thought. Someday I imagine we'll just freeze 8+ month old fetuses in the same way. Someone will have to pay for storage, of course, but as long as the "possibility" of being implanted at some point in the future exists (even if that future never comes) everyone will be OK with this as well.
As a young Catholic myself who believes Jesus will return in the future, I was kind of shocked that you suggested it would be in the next 100 years. That’s likely to be in my lifetime. I guess I’ve always assumed that he’s coming thousands of years from now and I’ll already be in heaven hell or purgatory. What makes you think he’s coming so soon?
I’m not sure Jesus return needs to coincide with abortion being denounced. Unless you believe we are on the verge of rapture
Jesus said, "So likewise ye, when ye see these things come to pass, know ye that the kingdom of God is nigh at hand. In the same way, when you see all these things taking place, you can know that the Kingdom of God is near. Verily I say unto you, This generation shall not pass away, till all be fulfilled." Now you'd have to read all the verses before this statement in Luke 21 to see all the signs being fulfilled. The biggest one is usually considered to be the rebirth of Israel in 1948, and we are now in 2018 the 70th anniversary of this miracle, so Jesus could even return this year. Another big anniversary is when 2000 years are fulfilled since crucifixion, which is the year 2032. There are many more signs actually. Just type "signs of the end times" and "Revelation 12 sign" in YouTube and you will see many all falling within our generation. One of the better youtubers on this subject is Steve Cioccolanti. He mentions his Catholic background but speaks to all Christian denominations it seems.
"Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour in which the Son of man comes." If there is any guarantee, it is that we will not see it coming.  There is no special reason to believe it will be soon, and no particular reason to believe that it is in the far future. Playing the signs and portents game with the Bible has always been tempting, but in the face of clear instructions about what we need to be concerned with, we should have more important things to worry about. God will, no doubt, continue to be amused with our attempts to try and guess at what he is ensuring will be not guessable.
Perhaps, but more because of pragmatic than optimistic reasons. I don't believe that a culture that contracepts and aborts itself out of future generations will remain the dominant culture in 100 years (4-5 generations). Modern cultures that approve of abortion almost uniformly have sub-replacement fertility. They will make themselves a minority.
It can also be argued that societies with better access to family planning (ie contraception and abortion) may become more advanced as they can focus their care on planned pregnancies and not get sidetracked by accidental ones. Children who are wanted and cared for appropriately grow up to be more productive members of society, A society with fewer productive members as opposed to a society with many non-productive members seems far superior in every way.
So superior that nations who have been culling their offspring to "responsible" levels for just a few generations are now having to import irresponsible amounts of people from non-culling nations to hopefully do work to support the aging, crumbling, dwindling population... which is hard for them to do because they don't speak the language or have any relevant skills and it's a disaster.  Maybe it wasn't so responsible to do all that baby-culling after all
It's amazing how deep in denial these people are. If you don't replace yourselves, you will die out. Importing immigrants will either have immigrants assimilate (resulting in the same problem) or immigrants continuing to have enough kids to replace themselves, in which case the original culture is replaced by the immigrant one (resulting in the contraceptive/abortive culture dying out quickly).
Which nations may that be? If you're talking about America, aren't we actively trying to decrease the amount of immigration into the country? Your solution to the lack of labor force is to force women to give birth? Perhaps the companies making useless shit will simply go out of business as there will be less people to buy them. Sounds like a problem that will fix itself to me...
I am NOT talking about the United States. we haven't been on that particular crazytrain for as long as much of western europe has. Their demographics crisis is a direct result of disastrously low replacement rates. Edit because you added another part: its not that simple. Who will keep the power plants running when 75% of the population is 80? Who will be paying into SS/analogous welfare system for the old people to be able to tap into it? Do you know how any of this works? This is why countries in Europe need as many immigrants as possible. They're hoping to Dear God that the immigrants will assimilate productively and become the generations of missing Europeans that should have been there.
Sounds like they should focus on training immigrants instead of forcing women to give birth against their will.
That's a strawman nobody is suggesting. But what happens then when the immigrants fully assimilate into a culture that shames couples for having more than 1.2 children? Eventually you run out of other people's children. Also, your premise that a smaller number of "properly raised" people is Better than a greater number of improperly raised people must be false, otherwise why the need for these immigrants? Who come from countries where they were raised in even worse conditions than the 3rd child of an "irresponsible" family would have been raised in Germany? Can you restate that premise in light of this please?
Go  ahead and call yourself superior for murdering your unwanted children. Consider yourselves above those dirty cultures that have women get married and have a handful of kids. So long as your culture can't manage to replace itself, you'll be inconsequential in a couple generations and dead in a couple more.
I'm not above people who get married and have lots of kids LOL. By all means have as many as you WANT. I'm simply against being forced to have any against your will and offered a counter explanation to yours. Y so mad?
Cultures where abortion and contraception are the accepted norm are mutually exclusive with cultures where marriage and lots of kids are the accepted norm. You called the former more advanced and "superior" literally meaning above. No one suggested forcing people to have children against their will. Why do you think I'm mad? I'm glad that pro-abortion/contraceptive cultures are removing themselves from the future.
Cultures where women are expected to have many children are generally poor nations with sub par education standards and poor living conditions. The chances those children will grow to become educated adults are pretty slim. The ideal perpetuates like this. Have kids, don't educate them, they have more uneducated kids etc. Sounds like the republican way so I guess it fits with the narrative.
Whether you like it or not, those cultures consider inferior will be the ones still around in a hundred years. The rich educated ones having as low as 0.8 kids per woman will not. Their "superiority" will mean nothing as they move towards extinction.
Extinction? What about space travel? Increasing the age we can survive? Iron wombs? You honestly think that we will be relying on the human womb in the next couple hundred years? Do you have no faith in our ability to innovate? We can freeze embryos already, clone mammals, replace heart valves with plastic ones. The human womb will be entirely defunct eventually. I suppose that'll be the end of prolife/prochoice argument. We can only hope.
Space travel and iron wombs lmao. The trolls on this sub get funnier and funnier. Contraceptive/abortive cultures today have the most advanced artificial reproductive technology in the world already, no need for sci fi. They have the lowest infant and maternal mortality and the most money to raise children. They're still failing to replace themselves. You're confusing "can't" with "don't want to".
We "fail to replace" because of a sudden shift in the generations viewpoint. All that's needed is some streamlining so we can function with less people. No need to force people to carry pregnancies they don't want. Every time someone comes in a valid argument you automatically resort to "troll". This place is slowly becoming the Donald.

You must know all Republicans. We're all crazy, uneducated, dumb women as Hillary Clinton has said, who do everything our husbands say and pop out baby after baby every year! /s
Only if we can eradicate liberalism from this planet, then yes absolutely. It will be America's version of the holocaust, but worse, because way more lives were lost by abortion.
I would doubt it because it is a much more complex issue than slavery and genocide. If you look at abortion as a moral issue, then I think the discussion really comes down to what does the right to autonomy entitle us to, and what does the right to life entitle us to. Abortion may be wrong, but we should still remember that the right autonomy is a very important one. The right to life has been ignored in order to ensure the right to autonomy and vice versa. Honestly, I can get tired of comparisons between abortion, genocide, and slavery. I have yet to see an instance, nor can I imagine one, where genocide has happened to ensure a right as important as autonomy. In a similar way, I have heard people say that slavery was battle of rights as well, with one side arguing that injustice could be justified on account of protecting property rights.  Normally those who I am discussing this with are comparing the right to autonomy to the right to own property. I find this to be a gross and benighted devaluing of the right to one's own body. Anything that happens to our bodies affects the whole of us, what happens to our land and property often lacks that potential. I find abortion to be wrong. However, I also find it wrong to say this is a simple issue. Throughout history, we have used women's bodies in ways that have demeaned. Often the female body has been seen as something that is to be used with no regard to the actual person who resides in it or is it. It is for these reasons that I hope our opinions and ethics towards abortions are often examined. If we ever write this issue off as simple without proper thought, regard, and concern, then I do not believe we see other persons with the respect they are owed.
Honestly, it will depend on how much the future generations view the science vs. emotion argument. I'd like to think as science advances, that people would become MORE pro-choice (which they actually are, there are numerous surveys proving this). But at the same time, society is moving more and more to the left as we speak. And while pro-life and pro-choice isn't exactly left or right on the spectrum, those who tend to lean left also tend to lean pro-choice. It's going to be VERY interesting. Just by watching a Science class in school, so many kids nowadays are firm believers in science and the progressions in science. As science finds more and more about the life of a fetus, the more and more pro-life our generation will become. I also think as birth control progresses, abortions will become less and less needed. Also as technology becomes more widespread, taking care of babies will be easier, resulting in less need for aborting children. The point in society that we are is kind of why abortion is such a controversial topic. Many accidental pregnancies happen and parents decide to abort their kids and we don't have the technology to prevent said accidental pregnancies right now. With the stigma of sex in the media too, kids aren't going to practice abstinence. I don't think overpopulation will become too much of a problem because of this as with the technological advancements that will happen in birth control, parents who are ready to have children will be the only ones having kids, with the accidental ones being limited. NOW hopefully, the advancements in birth control I'm mentioning happen before fertilization.
Maybe, maybe not. Personally I doubt it.


Dear Future Mom  March 21 - World Down Syndrome Day | #DearFutureMom
It really confuses me that we push to ban abortion when a baby is actually sick, but not when a baby is healthy. How does that make any sense?
To be fair, the opposite is probably more common. Many countries have laws the prevent abortion after a certain age, unless the baby is sick with a genetic problem or birth defect. The Down's syndrome ban is analogous to hate crime or anti discrimination laws. Firing someone because of their race or age is seen as worse than because you just don't like them. Killing a baby because of ability or gender is seen as more heinous than simply killing a baby because you don't want to be pregnant. Neither discrimination against healthy nor sick babies is moral or logically consistent, of course. I don't agree them, but that's the illogical "logic" behind it.
I've been reading a lot from Equal Rights Institute lately, but the problem I am having is the conversations they are referring to always involve someone who values logical consistency. But most people don't.For example, I've recently had a conversation with someone who believed the soul entered the body at birth making abortion not morally wrong. I asked them if late term abortion was ok then, and they responded that they didn't think late term abortion was okay.If abortion is ok because they aren't a person until birth, then what could be wrong with late term abortion?Well it's gross and that's horrible...! But also it's not my job to tell a woman what to do, it's inside her body.Ok. Then why are you ok with abortion, but also not ok with it?Well because I think it's fine.I'm sorry but "because I say so" arguments can't be what we base law and morality on. People can't have it both ways. Abortion is either ok or it isn't.
You won't find almost anyone willing to say they don't care about logical consistency which is why the person you're talking to will continue to try and justify and explain how their stance makes sense. Sometimes you just have to hand-hold them through the process of seeing how they're being inconsistent.
I think I he issue with a lot of this is that its much more of a value judgement than a logical conclusion. I don't think a fetus is a person, that is a subjective opinion, not a logical thought. It doesn't really make sense to call it logically inconsistent when it doesn't use logic in the first place. Once people make their value judgement, then they can find some logical arguments to try and justify it. But that still isn't what drives most people's beliefs. Which is why people generally don't change their minds on abortion because of any logical argument.
I really don't think that's what OP means when they talk about logical inconsistency. Some people will. Meanwhile even if people aren't primarily driven by logical consistency, the may still have to alter their argument when pressed for consistency -- the benefit of this is we can actually respond to a coherent argument at that point.
I remember awhile ago I had a discussion online with someone who was arguing that abortion laws were totally ineffective at stopping abortion. I brought up a number of studies finding that restrictions passed in the US had reduced abortions in the states they were enacted in. The person was like "but that's not the same as making abortion illegal you moron!" And I was like yeah, that's the point. If even a restriction that doesn't make abortion totally illegal reduces abortion then how will a total ban not work? I've noticed some pro-choicers absolutely refuse to believe that restrictions work even after listing several sources of evidence. Which I find weird because whether or not legal restrictions work isn't relevant to the morality of abortion.
Exactly. Fuck statistics. It won't work because I say so. Women do not have to self abort. That's a choice they make. I understand how altered someones mind is when faced with an unplanned pregnancy because I've experienced it myself. It isn't a good reason. If abortion is ever illegal, I seriously hope some help for crisis pregnancies would accompany them, but it still isn't a good reason.
People are generally irrational beings that base their moral views on what is convenient for them. Individuals may vary, but it evens out at a societal level.
I wish that was actually the case though. I don't know a single other pro-lifer personally, aside my from husband, and yet I've never spoken to any pro-choicer (everyone I know is one) who had a well thought out reason for denying fetal personhood beside "because they're not." It frustrates me because there are people who actually do have well thought out reasons. If you're going to deny something as important as human rights, at least have given it some thought first. I had someone recently say "ok well that's bullshit" when I read from several academic texts saying that biological life begins at fertilization. You can't even concede it's biological life? I would respect them so much more if they made a personhood argument, because saying it's bullshit to actual scientific fact drives me crazy.
Oh, I agree with you. I mean that most people mold their morals around what is convenient for them, and this extends to the whole society. People who pride themselves on logic and reason outright reject scientific facts when it doesn't suit their agenda. Society will not pick itself up by its bootstraps, morally speaking. Sorry, I'm not optimistic about unfettered human nature.
I'm not either.
Short ( neither pro or antiabortion) vid about personhood . I think you will enjoy it https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=GxM9BZeRrUI
If you think we haven't considered the concept of personhood, or that any of this is new to us, you'd be wrong. "Include anyone you think should be included, and exclude anyone you think should be excluded." Well, then I guess slavery, the holocaust, etc were fine because they were just being true to their definition of personhood. I'm concerned that you think we should be basing our laws on "this pro-choice philosopher has picked this very specific criteria on what a person should be, that almost exclusively and conveniently excludes unborn humans, but also accidentally includes infants and the mentally handicapped...but we would never kill them because they are persons even if they don't fit our definition!!!....so really only fetuses...and that fits my worldview so I like it!!!!" whew yeah. That's one good philosopher! There is no such thing as a human human non-person (a point I think he didn't quite grasp was that having human DNA is in regards to organisms didn't mean mouth cell. An organ or skin cell cannot have personhood because it isn't a complete organism, whereas a human being or animals is) but there can be non-human persons (rational aliens, for example). A person doesn't have to fit the definition of personhood in their current state, they just have to belong to a species that does. A fetus of a sentient alien species would also have personhood. I would even be willing to entertain the idea of giving personhood to certain animals if the evidence was compelling enough. If you're comfortable with society deciding what makes a person, and you think that for the first time in human history, that society finally got it right....I have a bridge to sell you. It only makes sense to give it to everyone. Think about the consequences of if you're wrong. Are you comfortable with that? Knowing you are championing the killing of millions of human persons? Think of the consequence, then, if I am wrong. One of us is supporting a human rights atrocity with the killing of millions, and the other is not. The stakes are much higher if you turn out to be wrong.
I only responded due to your comment: I don't know a single other pro-lifer personally, aside my from husband, and yet I've never spoken to any pro-choicer (everyone I know is one) who had a well thought out reason for denying fetal personhood beside "because they're not." I simply thought you might appreciative the video which is unbiased and simply states different views on personhood. My comment was not to try to change your mind.
I specifically said well thought out pro-choice positions exist, but that everyone I spoke to (I don't include the internet as speaking) retreat to "because I say so" arguments without an explanation.
Oh I understand
This would be a good topic for them to cover on their blog, actually. That said, even giving them a chance to see the logical inconsistencies may help change minds later, even if they don't appear to move initially.
"How to deal with people whose only abortion argument is 'keep your rosaries off my ovaries!!!!!!'" I'd love to read a blog about that because saying "well I'm Jewish so..." hasn't really worked.
What really grinds my gears is the whole “So you don’t support rape victims getting abortions?” strawman.
Yes, the whole, "I support abortion on-demand, which means you can obtain an abortion because your astrological reading does not indicate this is an auspicious time, but we're only going to talk about rape because it makes me seem less like I am supporting arbitrary killing."
Seriously. If they thought they weren't doing anything wrong, why justify it using the most emotional and extreme of cases? If it's ok, it's ok all the time, not just when something bad happens. My feeling is that they are trying to convince themselves more than anything.
I think many people just like thinking they have an argument that no one can possibly respond to. It may well be because they sense the discomfort that they support someone getting killed, but they may just want to quickly dismiss opposing viewpoints without too much introspection.
I run into the same problem when discussing why infant circumcision is generally wrong. Most pro-choicers don't even realise it, but there is a tremendous amount of hypocrisy that passes for normal conversation.
I'd love for you to be a fly on the wall when a prolifer comes in and wants their abortion. Those are the only difficult clients. They hate you for giving them what they want. And I still rub their feet in the recovery room.
That would be a hypocritical pro-lifer, not a logically inconsistent argument. I don't doubt these people exist. Just curious how you know they are pro-life, and what you say to them when they tell you they hate you. Actual question. I'm not sure i'd be able to hold back my thoughts knowing my tendencies to be a bit sarcastic towards people I am annoyed by. Trying to work on it.
Call them what you will but they almost always say something like " I'm prolife but..." Or "I would never in a million years ever think I could do this because I'm totally against abortion...". You just give them good patient care like anyone else. It's just the mental gymnastics of the whole situation...
I was prolife and tried multiple times to set up an abortion when i was pregnant with my first child. I felt like i broke the universe by getting pregnant and, because of the grotesque and evil lies taught to me since 7th grade about having unplanned babies, i thought that the only decent thing i could do to save my life was have an abortion. Thank God an elderly Christian woman looked at my unmarried, unprepared little self and told me the truth about how easy the answer really was. I guess my point is that it feels like the world has a gun to your head, no matter how prolife you are. There are many many women who get abortions who truly did not want them. Society has to stop threatening young women into killing their babies. It's all lies. My life is good now. Mothers can do anything.
Well you're not gonna hear a defense of them from me. I got pregnant at 17 and decided not to abort....and I am not a brave person...at all, nor did I actually have the support someone would think is required to raise a child. I wasn't even pro-life at the time really. I just wish more people realized pregnancy isn't the end of the world.
Carry on. We'll be here for the snowflake abortions of prolifers.
And we'll be here for the ones who question the lies you have told them, either before or after they go through with it

Maybe so many women want one because certain people tell them being dead is better than being poor, that they'll never finish school, that they'll never find a man, that they'll ruin their body, that their parents will hate them,  that it costs $X,000 a month to have a baby and they'll never afford it,  and all the other flat out lies
There's nothing new to tell. People are hypocritical. That doesn't speak the authenticity of an argument which was the point of this all. You've seen people who claimed to be pro-life getting an abortion,  I've seen people who claim things do a lot of shit they shouldn't do. Does that make my belief that abortion is wrong less true? Not at all. If they thought the same they wouldn't have had one. They don't represent me or the pro-life movement. They represent a society that tells them they will be better off if they kill their children.

Abortions are fucking evil

I’m fed up with opinion articles in famous news outlets with “outlandish” headlines that everyone in the comment section agrees on. The post has nothing to do with politics, no politicians were cited, it doesn’t report on anything news worthy. Yet it gets posted in r/politics so the pro-choice Reddit circle jerk can cum all over it.

He has no right to identify with the Christian faith.

This is sickening and evil. I went to school with a guy with Down Syndrome, and he was awesome. Probably the happiest dude I've ever known. Always laughing and making others laugh with him. They deserve a shot at life.
"It's ok to be selfish and murder babies because everyone else is doing it too!"
It's interesting that she acknowledges at the end that Roe protects the right to abort when the child is nearsighted, too short, (or the wrong gender though she doesn't say this directly), etc. Maybe instead of just accepting the disturbing implications of that as the author does, we should instead question the decision that allows it?
Write the same story but insert “because it was a girl” , cuz the author clearly supports that based on her words
We're fighting Nazis
"hey mommy what happened to my sister?" "Well see she wasn't good though, she wasn't the child we wanted. So we killed her."
Take a look at what the author says later and it becomes more disturbing than simply "wasn't good" or "wanted". "Well, see, prenatal genetic testing indicated that she had a 15% chance of being nearsighted, and glasses are really expensive, so we killed her."
I mean honestly if i needed glasses id want to die too. Obviously its not a life worth living as evidenced by the ongoing daily incessant mass suicides of nearsighted people
But the 40% suicide rate of trans people would not constitute a reason to abort, of course.
Bragging about murder. How progressive. The only silver lining in all of this is that these people are eliminating themselves from the next generation.
I wish that was true.  The reality is that they're trying to convince people who "can't support" those children to do so. What they're not saying is that they see poverty and their reaction is that it has to die.  Unfortunately, they've taken the position that eliminating poverty is done by eliminating the poor. Let's be clear.  A lot of people would like to kill off disabled children because they don't want to see them or deal with them.  They just don't want to be caught putting it that way.
It's a tragedy that they're trying to spread their pro death agenda to others, but they aren't doing a good job perpetuating themselves either. Practically every culture today with widespread acceptance of abortion has a fertility rate below replacement level.
Sucks. I don't even want to give it a hit.
Sickening
https://www.reddit.com/r/entp/comments/83dckf/got_my_gf_pregnant/Not just OP, but people in the comments.It seems like for them, an abortion is a method of birth control, nothing else.They show no respect for the woman or her body.They aren't really pro-choice. They're just pro-abortion.If they force, bully, or manipulate a woman into having an abortion, that's not pro-choice at all.AgressionShe said she wanted to keep it. I was furious. I gave a speech. I made my opinion very clear that i did not want this child at all. She said it would fuck her up psychologically if she went through with it. I didn't understand because I'm not the one doing it.ManipulationI could fire up that superpower we're all suppose to have and manipulate yourself out of this position. I think you've already screwed yourself though. I've had a couple unwanted pregnancies and what I did was remain calm, let the woman know it was her choice...keeps communication flowing. Then I could slip in things about how much here life would change for the worse. I didn't let the issue stew for days and I kept it private. Bringing in more people just adds shit. I offered to pay all expenses to abort, take her, and because I knew it would be difficult I offered a vacation...now we're talking about vacations, where does she want to go, do...now she's happy as shit and not thinking about the baby. Cost me a bundle but way less than raising a child.Thoughts?
Abortion being the cornerstone to women's rights would be like having castration being central to men's rights.
I’ve met a man like this (S.O.’s brother’s roommate). He was just furious when his gf was pregnant and refused to abort despite his insistence. So, when people tout off about a woman’s right to choose or how they are pro-choice but not pro-abortion, it’s easy to see right through it. Abortion is a tool of the patriarchy. Plain and simple.
Not all women want to be pregnant, for those abortion is not “ a tool of the patriarchy “ in fact forcing women to continue an unwanted pregnancy would be
No one is forcing women to be pregnant except rapists. We're just saying she can't kill her child once she is already pregnant. To say women should be more like men, even just in reproductive capacity, is insulting to women. Maybe if men were more responsible and mature, women wouldnt feel the need to do that.
From the comments: No words. Wow.
Before it's born. Like after it's born was a secondary possibility.
Is it at all possible that men want to keep abortion legal not because they are championing women's rights, but because they know if abortion becomes illegal, they're gonna have to be a shit ton more careful, or step up and take responsibility, and that's not ok with them? Is this post not a pretty good indication of that? If abortion is an option, irresponsible and immature men will always try and make that option a reality.
That needed to be cross posted to /r/sociopath.
I agree with you completely.  Every now and then a redpiller stumbles onto /r/prochoice and /r/abortion and it's gross. I'm convinced that enough time as an ob/gyn makes a misandrist of anybody.
This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.

SCOTUS will strike down if it reaches them.

I just posted a comment about a CPC I volunteer at on a post about how terrible CPCs are on the pro-choice subreddit and I don’t think I’ve ever been more insulted or maligned. Is this just their (certain pro-choicers, not all) hateful anger coming out or is there truth to what they are saying?
There have been a lot of pro-choice people in the prolife sub recently. You will get backlash,  but don't let it get you down. I just went to a talk with two CPCs in my community. One of them regularly gets patients sent to their clinic from Planned Parenthood, because the PP here doesn't have resources or information on if a mother wants to keep her baby. Our CPC gives them resources on WIC, healthcare, parenting classes, free clothes and furniture, etc. I would be hard pressed to decide not to have an abortion (I am prolife) if I only had the information available at PP. CPCs are what truly allow women to have choice. Then when they know all of their full resources, they can still go to PP or elsewhere for an abortion. Our CPC also offers free pregnancy tests and free ultrasounds. So in my opinion and experience, CPCs can be a wonderful thing and fill a gap in the community. Are there some bad CPCs out there? Probably. But that doesn't mean every CPC is ruined because of that
I always like to ask where women are supposed to go who have an unwanted pregnancy, but plan to carry to term, who need care. An abortion clinic cannot help her. If it was about choice, wouldn't you want places to exist that help a woman who chooses life?

Planned parenthood doesn't offer prenatal care. They only offer abortion, and limited diagnostic screenings.
https://www.snopes.com/fact-check/planned-parenthood-prenatal-care/
https://www.liveaction.org/news/snopes-fact-check-prenatal-care-planned-parenthood-inaccurate/ Also, from personal experience. 17 year old me, pregnant and poor, was super pro-choice, and thought planned parenthood was a comprehensive health clinic. At the time I didn't know there was anything wrong with them. Called their south bend, Indiana location which was right near me at the time, and asked what sorts of things they helped with, and said that I knew I didn't want to abort. I was told that I could come in for counseling and a pregnancy test, but they didn't have anything else to offer unless I planned to abort. They said they only had ultrasound services for patients who were aborting for their use during the procedure. I went to the counseling, and was pretty much grilled on why I wouldn't abort and how much better my life would be if I did. How did planned parenthood help me? Planned parenthood, on the whole, isn't a prenatal care provider. How is that comprehensive? Shouldn't we be sending people places that actually help them?
Jeeze, why is it called Planned "Parenthood" if they don't offer any parenting options?
Oh wow, Live-Action! The same organization where..... The founder has stated that abortions should be conducted in the public sphere. http://www.rightwingwatch.org/post/flashback-lila-rose-wants-to-see-abortions-carried-out-in-the-public-square-2/ An organization that repeatedly lies and edits videos to promotes falsehoods https://www.mediamatters.org/blog/2013/04/28/live-actions-latest-abortion-clinic-undercover/193812 And has been refuted time https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/24/us/planned-parenthood-pre-natal-services.html and time https://www.mediamatters.org/blog/2012/05/31/cutting-room-floor-live-action-edited-out-adopt/186739 again https://www.mediamatters.org/blog/2012/05/31/hoax-du-jour-live-action-brings-bogus-sex-selec/173557 Besides their analysis completely falls apart when we look at the facts. While many locations itself don't provide prenatal care, planned parenthood still provides a host of services that outnumber what other clinics or places can provide for the record: Some services PP provides in addition to abortion are: 4.5 million tests and treatment for sexually transmitted infections 3.6 million contraception related services 935,573 cancer screenings including breast exams and Pap tests 1.1 million pregnancy tests and prenatal services They are also making movies to provide more care as well https://www.delawareonline.com/story/news/health/2017/10/02/planned-parenthood-offer-prenatal-services-low-income-pregnant-women/711847001/ So while I am sorry for what you dealt with and I apologize sincerely for what happened to you, your personal experience doesn't invalidate any of the data, facts or research that is provided. And please go to the pro-choice subreddit where we have a post stickied on why CPC's are awful and not an alternative.
I don't advocate for CPC's as much as I advocate for directing funds to FQHCs, who provide all of those services you mentioned, plus many more that PP could never and will never provide. They don't do abortions. I don't get why that's so hard to understand, but I'm glad you at least conceded that planned parenthoods interest isn't in pre-natal care as much as it is in killing people.
Planned Parenthood is still the best provider of care or family planning services.  Regarding FQHCs we have data on them too: The study finds that in one-fifth of the 491 U.S. counties where Planned Parenthood centers are located, they are the only safety-net family planning center available. Furthermore, in two-thirds of the 491 counties, Planned Parenthood centers serve at least half of women obtaining contraception from safety-net health centers, the analysis finds." The data was mostly done to compare PP to other centers and it found that PP usually is the only service provider in the respective area that provides the adequate care necessary. Of the 13,540 nationwide FQHCs listed, a large majority of them do not have the necessary staff to deliver a comprehensive list of certified reproductive health care for women on site. Only 34-56% of FQHCs provided oral contraceptives or refills on site compared to 83% of Planned Parenthood clinics. FQHCs’ inability to meet demands for reproductive care is driven by the U.S.’s serious shortage of obstetrician/gynecologists–let alone ob/gyns that deliver services to Medicaid-eligible patients. About half of all U.S. counties do not have a single ob/gyn and 56% do not even have a nurse midwife. http://thehill.com/policy/healthcare/252974-study-planned-parenthood-often-provides-only-contraception-available https://www.guttmacher.org/report/publicly-funded-family-planning-clinic-survey-2015 https://www.advisory.com/daily-briefing/2016/09/01/ob-gyn-shortage So no FQHC's are not an alternative here. Planned Parenthood contributes to the decline of abortion every year. What have you done to reduce abortion other than posting links from extremist propaganda?
Your sources are also super neutral. That copy and paste job was top notch. What that tells me is that planned parenthood could actually be a super great resource for women if they stopped aborting children. Since killing innocent humans isn't healthcare, I don't see why they would even offer that at a healthcare clinic.
I love how people refer to PP as women's healthcare, and that if PP goes down women wouldn't have health care.  Like you'd walk into a regular clinic's lobby and someone would come out and ask you to leave because you're a woman.  Or you get hit by car and the ambulance shows up and the EMTs are all "ohhh...youre a woman... well,  this is awkward. Sorry there's no healthcare for women bye"
Someone citing "Lie Action" is no position to criticize the legitimacy of any sources, especially when I am citing reputable academic studies and data that is factual and peer-reviewed. This is what I read: "I can't actually refute anything you're saying, so I am just going to criticize you with an ad hominem, even though this subreddit's policy requires Pro-Choicers to back up statistical claims with evidence. Planned Parenthood is the only resource. You mention volunteer Pro-Life Centers and CPC's. When Planned Parenthood was defunded we didn't see anything from the numerous Pro-Life centers in the state. They couldn't replace PP and could not provide the same coverage of services. http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/opinion/zorn/ct-planned-parenthood-defense-videos-abortion-perspec-zorn-0805-jm-20150804-column.html The consequences were simply numerous: "100,000–240,000 Texas women ages 18 to 49 have attempted to terminate a pregnancy on their own (that is, without help from a licensed medical professional). According to the authors, “the populations we found to be most familiar with abortion self-induction are among those that have been most directly affected by the closure of abortion clinics in the state.” As a result, the study predicts, “abortion self-induction will increase as clinic-based care becomes more difficult to access.” http://blogs.harvard.edu/billofhealth/2015/11/18/texas-self-induced-abortion-and-an-ode-to-justice-powell/ http://sai-dc.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Minimizing-Abortion-Final-Draft.pdf

Can you prove that regular clinics don't provide these tests and services (They do)
https://www.reddit.com/r/prochoice/comments/83863l/about_crisis_pregnancy_centers/?st=jekryukl&sh=95501db5 This should constitute as an informative response.
That post seems to be about Crisis Pregnancy Centers. I meant to ask, can you demonstrate that planned parenthood provides services besides abortion that a person's neighborhood doctor or low-income clinic doesn't provide. Maybe i misunderstood you, but i thought you were saying that planned parenthood was a vital resource because they provide healthcare that is inaccessible at regular clinics. If i misunderstood, disregard.
Sure. PP is the largest provider of Birth Control and Contraception. They provide services that the majority of other such centers cannot match. In fact, in many places, PP is the sole provider of contraception and birth control, especially for low-income women. http://thehill.com/policy/healthcare/252974-study-planned-parenthood-often-provides-only-contraception-available The study finds that in one-fifth of the 491 U.S. counties where Planned Parenthood centers are located, they are the only safety-net family planning center available. Furthermore, in two-thirds of the 491 counties, Planned Parenthood centers serve at least half of women obtaining contraception from safety-net health centers, the analysis finds." The data was mostly done to compare PP to other centers as you mentioned and it found that PP usually is the only service provider in the respective area that provides the adequate necessary. Of the 13,540 nationwide FQHCs listed, a large majority of them do not have the necessary staff to deliver a comprehensive list of certified reproductive health care for women on site. Only 34-56% of FQHCs provided oral contraceptives or refills on site compared to 83% of Planned Parenthood clinics. FQHCs’ inability to meet demands for reproductive care is driven by the U.S.’s serious shortage of obstetrician/gynecologists–let alone ob/gyns that deliver services to Medicaid-eligible patients. About half of all U.S. counties do not have a single ob/gyn and 56% do not even have a nurse midwife. https://www.guttmacher.org/report/publicly-funded-family-planning-clinic-survey-2015 https://www.advisory.com/daily-briefing/2016/09/01/ob-gyn-shortage

You are right.  There are some affiliates who do offer it, but not all do, and it is a small percentage of their operation. So they could go to PP... maybe.  But I think in regard to HairfotheDog89's response, lfpod's counter-response was only lacking in regard to complete accuracy, rather than being completely wrong in any practical sense. I would not rely on PP for those services.  The comment made it seem like reliance on PP could be taken for granted.  It cannot.
I also would like to point out that many clinics will say they offer prenatal care over the phone, but the actual service is simply a prescription for prenatal vitamins and a blood pressure check. It's pretty easy to call and ask.
PP is usually the only alternative. CPC's do not make up the slack or are able to replace the care that PP offers. I ask you to consider the inverse postulation on the consequences of what happens when Planned Parenthood is defunded? Texas provides us with adequate results. As shown in a study by Miami University economics professor Analisa Packham and published in the Journal of Health Economics. "Although the primary stated objective of the funding cuts was to decrease abortion incidence, I find little evidence that reducing family planning funding achieved this goal… The results indicate that the funding cuts increased abortion rates by 4.9 percent 1-2 years after the funding cuts and 3.1 percent over three years." https://www.academia.edu/19435560/Family_Planning_Funding_Cuts_and_Teen_Childbearing What we found, in this case, is that defunding Planned Parenthood actually increased the abortion rate, and cause more issues as well several socioeconomic consequences. https://thinkprogress.org/texas-family-planning-cuts-3ed9f259c98e/
I think we need more education that regular doctors and HHS low income clinics routinely and daily provide prescriptions for generic BC. Planned Parenthood relies on the falsehood that they're the only place in town who has birth control. Nobody needs planned parenthood. Most are not even donation-based anymore and their sliding scale is pathetic. Anyone can call their counties HHS line and find a FREE clinic if they're poor, that does everything. The only thing PP offers that is not available literally everywhere else is abortion. "We need PP because XYZ testing, meds, bc etc" is a misunderstanding at best or a deliberate obfuscation at worst. edit: a letter
I responded to your comment earlier about how Planned Parenthood being the only source of healthcare for many centers. Really? Let's ask Texans. When Planned Parenthood was defunded we didn't see anything from the numerous Pro-Life centers in the state. They couldn't replace PP and could not provide the same coverage of services. http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/opinion/zorn/ct-planned-parenthood-defense-videos-abortion-perspec-zorn-0805-jm-20150804-column.html The consequences were simply numerous: "100,000–240,000 Texas women ages 18 to 49 have attempted to terminate a pregnancy on their own (that is, without help from a licensed medical professional). According to the authors, “the populations we found to be most familiar with abortion self-induction are among those that have been most directly affected by the closure of abortion clinics in the state.” As a result, the study predicts, “abortion self-induction will increase as clinic-based care becomes more difficult to access.” http://blogs.harvard.edu/billofhealth/2015/11/18/texas-self-induced-abortion-and-an-ode-to-justice-powell/ http://sai-dc.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Minimizing-Abortion-Final-Draft.pdf
This is the same specious argument all over agian: "Unless we leave open abortion centers, abortions will rise." You're basically presenting a hostage dilemma.  "Fund PP, or these other kids will be killed." I don't want to see children killed or mothers have to deal with difficult situations when it comes to pregnancy.  And I am willing to support programs that will help with that problem.  But as long as abortion is both legal and encouraged, the numbers of deaths will continue to add up.  Perhaps more slowly than if the PP apple cart is upturned, but still steadily. I am told that the rate of abortions in the past decade is lower than it has ever been.  People on the pro-choice side keep wanting me to be comforted by that fact. Unfortunately, with even with those historic lows, in 2014 the CDC reported 652,639 abortions.  That's more than the entire death count of American soldiers in the four years of the Second World War. The real answer is for everyone to drop the pretense that abortion is "family planning" and "women's health care" and concentrate on funding solutions that provide better outcomes for every human being in the equation. If Planned Parenthood dropped support for and stopped providing abortions, you know as well as I do that the call to defund them would evaporate. There is always going to be inefficiencies and problems when money is shifted between institutions.  Leaving that money in the hands of Planned Parenthood is certainly not going to improve the quality of services at a CPC.
I am not presenting a hostage dilemma, I am presenting you with the realistic solution to ending abortion and creating a culture of life. The Pro-Life who has adequately failed to prevent abortion. You mention volunteer Pro-Life Centers and CPC's. But when Planned Parenthood was defunded we didn't see anything from the numerous Pro-Life centers in the state. They couldn't replace PP and could not provide the same coverage of services. http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/opinion/zorn/ct-planned-parenthood-defense-videos-abortion-perspec-zorn-0805-jm-20150804-column.html The consequences were simply numerous: "100,000–240,000 Texas women ages 18 to 49 have attempted to terminate a pregnancy on their own (that is, without help from a licensed medical professional). According to the authors, “the populations we found to be most familiar with abortion self-induction are among those that have been most directly affected by the closure of abortion clinics in the state.” As a result, the study predicts, “abortion self-induction will increase as clinic-based care becomes more difficult to access.” http://blogs.harvard.edu/billofhealth/2015/11/18/texas-self-induced-abortion-and-an-ode-to-justice-powell/ http://sai-dc.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Minimizing-Abortion-Final-Draft.pdf
We've already addressed this.  Yes, defunding PP will disrupt any services that it offers.  And bringing a CPC or any other organization up to speed will take time and effort.  And that effort will have to likely come from the subset of people who do not want abortions. In short, you're completely missing the point.  I am not saying PP is inefficient at what they do, I'm saying that they both offer, and support killing human beings for arbitrary justification. CPC's are an alternative we must support because the PP's of the world double as charnel houses. The real solution has always been bringing mainstream organizations back into compliance with ethical practices by ending the legality of the practice of abortion, and thus, allowing organizations like PP to receive taxpayer money for actual heath care purposes without fear that it will be used to support or offset the costs of abortion. That is the hostage situation.  We all want women to have good services, but not at the cost of allowing the death of innocent human beings. Again, the solution isn't making abortions "safe" the solution is ending the impetus to kill your own child.  There will always be abortions until we, as a society, get over the idea that a child is an unwanted burden.  If we need public policy to change in order to support those mothers better, or to give them the knowledge to best choose when to have a child, I am all for it. The 800 lbs gorilla in the room is that while you may or may not be correct that abortions will decrease in rate in any one period of time if PP maintains funding, it will never be able to be ended as a practice as long as organizations like that continue to trumpet its function as core "progressive values".
Yes they do, among other services such as: -Birth Control -Emergency contraception -General Healthcare -HIV Services -LGBT Services -Men’s Health Services -Patient Education -Pregnancy Testing -STD Testing, Treatment and vaccines -Abortion Services
http://thehill.com/blogs/pundits-blog/healthcare/316162-women-deserve-better-than-planned-parenthood-i-know-i-worked But I guess you know better.
So one clinic in Texas basically discredits them all, ok 👍🏻 The same could be said for CPC’s, which have actually been proven to be fraudulent “healthcare providers” with no medical standing.
And a PP claiming to do prenatal care legitimizes them all. Ok! Never mind the fact that they have helped countless sexual predators and rapists cover their tracks, not to mention ending the lives of thousands upon thousands of small children.
Wow. Ok I can’t continue this discussion, you’re too far gone into the tinfoil hat zone, banging my head against the wall would be more productive. Have a nice day.
Riveting insight.
That's it, I'm convinced.  Prochoice4eva

Hey! Planned Parenthood in my area offers pregnancy test visits, which is extremely helpful for women who are choosing to continue their pregnancy and have no insurance. Women need to provide proof of pregnancy in order to get WIC and other state provided resources they deserve. At the pregnancy test visit at PP they’re given not only proof of pregnancy, but free prenatal vitamins, advised about warning signs of ectopic pregnancy, given an estimate on gestation, and if they’re having any unusual bleeding or pain they can be evaluated and referred to the ER. Obviously the patients are also given a good amount of written information about healthy pregnancy and local resources for midwives and ob/gyns. It’s a really useful service that’s utilized quite often, at least in my area. Edited to add: My PP is also friendly with a truly amazing adoption agency, and provides their info to patients at pregnancy test visits. Cannot stress enough how much I love this adoption agency and the lengths they go to in order to empower a woman to choose adoption. I am so glad local women are getting the agency’s info from PP because finding a legitimate agency can be a daunting task, especially for a confused and often times young pregnant woman.
You love murdered babies, what a lovely username.
I would guess CPCs are to the pro choice community as Planned Parenthood is to the pro life community. The majority of both clinics/centers are probably helpful, but when something goes wrong, that is all people are going to pay attention too. I think the main issue with CPCs and Planned Parenthood is that they both lack the medical equipment and professionals needed to take care of a woman's health needs while pregnant. Honestly, I dont really blame either because as pregnancy continues health issued can just get more complex, and so you need a more versatile staff. I think there are plenty of women who can speak for or against these clinics, and any negative press for either is like throwing meat to piranhas. CPCs do help women in crisis pregnancies and Planned Parenthood does help with reproductive health, including birth control.
All CPCs taught me was that it was unsafe to talk to anyone about abortion because they would berate you, thus I never seeked counseling for my abortion (which I ultimately didn’t want or need but had anyway and regretted ). It was 100% my choice but they scared me into silence. I realized it was too much of a risk to talk to someone about raising a child and the options incase I decided to abort or brought up considering abortion because I would ultimately be shamed and harassed. All they did was make me feel terrified and pressured, so I essentially when through with the procedure feeling alone and ashamed. If someone could have shown me some unbiased kindness and heard me out I likely would have made a different decision. This is Just my experience with them, which pales in comparison to the shit they put some women through
“If they would have shown me some unbiased kindness and heard me out...” This is what all pregnancy centers should provide, especially ones that claim to represent Christianity. I think you should be able to express a pro-life position while also helping women of all situations and beliefs, without being judgmental or forceful. I’m sorry you didn’t have that
Thanks, I still to this day have not ever received that from a CPC. I have reached out to ever CPC in my region about the “post abortive counseling” they claim to offer and they reply with “ that is not our area of expertise”. I had someone from Choice42 call a few of them in my behalf (as their website and socials also claim they provide post abortive support) and they were greeted with the same response. The only thing that I could ever be connected with was a virtual chat, which then takes your info and circumstance and provides you with location and information of services- low and behold the ones I’ve been contacting for years. Silent no more has been recommended, but they too are manipulative and want you to fit their narrative.
Our local CPC provides  women with real healthcare, employment help, help finding a place to live, financial help, taking care of their babies, and post partum care as well as regular medical care for mom and baby. All the stuff Planned Unparenthood doesn’t do. My old GP provided care there free of charge.
They want women to make a choice, as long as that choice is to get an abortion. I also volunteer with a pregnancy center and it's a great thing. How could there be anything bad about helping mothers and their babies?
They want women to make a choice, as long as that choice is to get an abortion Absolute ignorant nonsense.
Yeah, the pro-abortionists are that way.

Just about 100% of the prochoice people in my life were livid when i chose to keep my unplanned pregnancy. Two eventually came around when it was clear that i wasn't aborting. But let me make it clear, every prochoice person wanted my choice to be abortion and was seeeeething as if it were a personal insult when i chose life. And i was 24, it wasn't about "my own good" they just wanted me to have an abortion for abortion's sake. No prolifeb person has ever treated me with such hatred. It was truly disturbing.
I am pro choice, and I am so sorry you had that experience. No woman should be treated that way for how she chooses to handle her pregnancy. I cannot even begin to imagine how isolated and betrayed you must have felt, especially in a time when you needed support more than ever. That was so wrong of them to impose their beliefs upon you so adamantly. I’ve continued an unplanned pregnancy, and if I had been told by someone I loved and trusted that I SHOULD have an abortion I would have been so hurt. My sister has had three unplanned pregnancies (her first and my first were at the EXACT same time so that was fun lol) and I have never once brought up abortion to her, I know she knows her options. I’m sorry you had such a crappy experience with the folks who should have been supportive of your choice, regardless of what that choice was.
Edit: this delved a bit too touchy so I'm deleting it
It’s important to push ourselves out of our comfort zones and try to find common ground with those who have opposing views. Or to at least listen to them describe their experiences. I have never in my life seen or heard a pro choice person behaving in such a manner. I work with all pro choice women, and a co worker recently found out she was pregnant and her situation is extremely close to worst case scenario for bringing another child into the world. Like, I think about her situation and it breaks my heart. As far as I know there has not been a single person who has suggested she terminate her pregnancy. Like I said before, we know that she knows what her options are. I can probably think of many other examples of times when a friend or family member was pregnant in less than ideal circumstances, and I know that I’ve never heard of seen anyone suggest, let alone promote abortion. So until your post about your personal experiences I really didn’t know there were people who behaved in such a deplorable manner under the guise of being pro choice. And I’m very confident that I could tell you about my experiences with CPCs, clinic protesters, and pro life activists, and you would be equally disgusted and shocked by their behavior. It’s unfortunate that remaining kind, civil, logical and understanding is often impossible for many on both sides of this debate.
That is a situation that’s specific to you in your life, it’s not the norm.
I bet you're totally supportive of women choosing to have their unplanned babies. I bet you're not vocally disappointed and belittling of them.
Defending the murder of innocent children is the only ignorant nonsense here.
Abortion isn’t murder, you just think it is. Why don’t women who procure legal terminations get arrested for murder? Because to class it as such would be incorrect.
You're coming to /r/prolife telling us abortion isn't murder, lmao. There's no other word for killing an innocent child. In some places they do, in some places they don't. If you're saying the legislation determines morality, then would you agree that abortion is murder sometimes? Would you also agree that honor killing of women is not murder in places where it is not punished by law as murder?
Are you using a legal definition of murder, or some other definition of murder?
Honor killings are a completely separate issue that has nothing to do with abortion, but nice diversion there. And no, women don’t get arrested for “murder” in any country for procuring a termination, it would be because it is not legal yet, there is a difference. Can I ask you an honest question? Why do feel the need to interject your views into other people lives? What business is it of yours to try and have any kind of say in what decision a woman makes in her own life? And also, when all these unwanted children are brought into he world, are you going to be the first one in line to open up your pockets and help with raising them the next 18 years?
You claimed that abortion is not murder because it is not legally punished as such. Neither is honor killing in some places. Therefore you should agree that they are not murder. Because I defend their right to not be murdered. You should try that, it's called being a decent human being. How about the decision to murder a baby? Are you going to open up your pockets and support every woman who escapes honor killing? Otherwise, you might as well give her father the knife. How about starving children? If you're not going to feed every one of them, just execute 'em. How about the mother who wants to drown her two year old? If you're not going to personally provide for that child's every need, might as well fill the bathtub for her.
Why do you keep bringing honor killing into the discussion? It is a completely separate issue that has nothing to do with abortion! My god, is this your only defence? It’s lunacy. I literally don’t even have anything left to say to you, because I have now realized that your nuts.

I'll adopt any baby left to me. I almost want to put a sign out front saying so. No questions asked. But you wouldn't want me to, you'd rather they abort because misery loves company.
Technically you are correct in saying abortion isn’t murder because murder is defined as unlawful killing of a human by another human. As of now it is legal to abort. Therefore, jews were not murdered in auschwitz because it was legal to kill jews. Strange to think about. Next point, we interject these views because they don’t just affect the mother, they affect the unborn as well. Surely you would fight for them too if you believed they were valuable human beings. I imagine if homeless people were being murdered regularly and the government wasn’t doing anything about it, you would interject your views on the issue, no? Also, there are 36 times as many couples willing to adopt than there are adoptable children in America, so there are plenty of people willing to raise these children for 18 years.
S/he shouldn't care if homeless people are killed or not, seeing as how it doesn't affect him/her at all
You're being pedantic, but technically correct. Abortion is not murder in the United States because murder is an unlawful homicide and abortion is legal. It may be more accurate to say that abortion has moral and ethical equivalence to murder.  It is a legal homicide, but no less reprehensible for its legality.
It may be more accurate to say that abortion has moral and ethical equivalence to murder.  It is a legal homicide, but no less reprehensible for its legality In you’re opinion, to a lot of other people abortion is a fundamental part of women’s healthcare. It will always be necessary, whether it be due to medical reasons, rape and incest, or personal choice. You feeling that it is wrong isn’t going to ever change it’s necessity.
Your personal feelz that it's necessary will never change the fact that it's wrong
It’s not my personal feelings that deem it necessary, it’s fact. What I think and what you think is irrelevant, abortions will always be necessary no matter what. You should maybe stop worrying about what choices women are making in their lives that have absolutely nothing to do with you.

I challenge you to prove that the death of a child is ever necessary except in the specific case of the potential saving of the mother's life. There is no issue that abortion "solves" that cannot be solved in another way.
The termination of a potentially viable fetus is necessary if the women feels that it is, that’s what you’re not understanding! It’s not a child, it is a fetus growing inside the body of a woman that has the right to bodily autonomy, and if she decides that she wants to terminate that is her choice! It’s none of my business, and it’s none of your business, it’s not going to effect my life in any way, nor yours.

My experience at a crisis pregnancy center: refused to run my pregnancy test until I was "counseled" for over an hour and a half. They had me freaked out, Shaking with anxiety. They never listened to me when I talked with them about my concerns and feelings abt possibly being pregnant. They kept telling me it was a wonderful time to be pregnant and they didn't know anything about me, my life, my family, my partner.... They gave me the expected anti abortion rhetoric and it was really disrespectful. The medical info they gave me about abortion was wrong. I finally got the test and it was positive and they just carried on like it was not an effing thing in the world more important than me having a baby. And I'm floored and stuttering and sobbing and they don't care. I get in for my ultrasound and it's a freaking epic screen room that's enormous and there screen is right in front of you. And it's baby this and baby that, digging around with the ultrasound and I'm so early they can't find anything. But maybe they see something. So they measured it. 5.5 weeks. 30 days. But they still told me it could be ectopic. But heres this ultrasound with a 'something'. Wtf. Either you see it or you don't. And I had to ASK for info on ectopic. They told me I could get free diapers and and maternity clothes three times during my pregnancy but only if I came to their classes on Saturdays. Parenting classes from the Catholic Church. They get things donated to them. They get Pope money. They get state money. And they still can't just give generously. Like pregnant women can't wait to work all week, take care of the kids and who ever else needs it so they can spend Saturday earning diapers, formula and clothes. It's moral greed. I honestly have my CPC the benefit of the doubt. I wanted all the info. They were so clearly bias that I couldn't believe anything they told me. They scared the hell outta me which was cruel. Vulnerable women are sitting ducks. Edit: spelling
I am very sorry you had to go through that. It frustrates me that there are people and organizations that claim the same beliefs as me, but go about it all wrong. I hope this experience hasn’t closed you off to the idea that there are pro-life people and places that genuinely want to serve and help you in whatever way they can
Oh I believe there are prolife people that want to help but I also know pro choice people want the same thing.
I’m glad you see it that way. People on both sides tend to base their beliefs on what they think is better for society or individuals. Neither movement is motivated by hatred
It’s really awful you had to go through that, it’s so important that these places get exposed for what they really are.
Not all pro-life pregnancy centers, but the ones that are like this should be weeded out. I don’t think either side wants this
They shouldn't have to scare people out of an abortion. If that's your go-to when the woman asks about it, something is wrong with your mission
Your personal experience at one CPC does not invalidate the research, facts, data and testimonials of thousands of women who have been misinformed and mislead at CPC's across the nation. Maybe try refuting the actual data that was provided before pushing these kind of charges on pro-choicers.
I never claimed it invalidates research, facts, data, or testimonials. I simply said there was a lot of information in the post that I could not address at the time. I gave my personal experience because the post made a lot of accusations about all CPCs that don’t describe the one where I volunteer. I also never accused pro-choicers of anything. I said some, and clarified specifically that I wasn’t referring to all pro-choicers, were being very hateful. Lastly, I posted this to see if anyone else had already done the research on these accusations to see if they are valid.
Well, feel free to direct them to the main thread on r/prochoice where it has been stickied and we will see of those accusations hold up.
Here's a sneak peek of /r/prochoice using the top posts of the year! #1: Hypocrisy | 7 comments#2: The "Pro-Life" GOP will go to extreme lengths to protect zygotes and embryos with barely any brain function, but when it comes to born teenaged children getting gunned down, life doesn't matter anymore. | 21 comments#3: "Abortion is the modern day equivalent to slavery" is such an insult to anyone who has actually been or currently is enslaved. I'm a bot, beep boop | Downvote to remove | Contact ^^me | ^^Info | ^^Opt-out

Judging by the CPC i went to whose walls are plastered with hundreds or thousands of pictures of babies that happy glowing mothers have sent in after being supported to choose life, i think the truth is pretty alright.
I already received the pro-choice side on this issue. If I were to just trust that source I would be getting biased information. This actually makes me less biased by getting both sides of the argument
No, you would be getting factual information. There are more than enough facts, statistics and testimonials to confirm that CPC’s are nothing more than pro birth manipulation centres posing as professional healthcare. Coming to this sub is like asking a cigarette company whether or not smoking gives you cancer, what do you think they’re going to tell you?
No it’s like coming to both sides on an issue the world is divided on and hearing them out, because that’s exactly what it is. I could use your smoking analogy on Planned Parenthood just as easily. “Hey PP, when does life start?” You already know the answer they’d provide you. Just because something says “a study found” or provides correlational data doesnt mean it’s accurate.
"Over half of all women who have an abortion used a contraceptive method during the month they became pregnant.2"https://www.webmd.com/women/tc/abortion-reasons-women-choose-abortionOne of the most common reasons given for abortion is that birth control failed.Not trying to start an argument about birth control. But even in a world where every woman used birth control when she didn't want to get pregnant, there would still be a need for abortion restrictions, because contraceptive technologies frequently fail.
There should be restrictions on abortion for the sole reason that killing another innocent human being is wrong unless it is purely for a reason like preserving the life of another person, and even then, should be weighed carefully.
I agree. This is only a way to cut a particular argument short by correcting an incorrect premise.
When you look at the bigger picture birth control actually encourages abortion because it creates a cultural expectation for people to have sex without pregnancy. The whole society rearranges based on this, so people become desperate for contraception, and when it fails, abortion. It's a great moneymaker for those involved, at the cost of human life, much like a drug dealer who gets his customers addicted to his product.
I agree; there is evidence for moral hazard when it comes to birth control.
Statically this argument doesn't hold up. Abortion rates go down in areas where there is more access to contraceptives. https://medicine.wustl.edu/news/access-to-free-birth-control-reduces-abortion-rates/
Those stats don't even address my argument. It only studies women in the US, which is a society already built around contraceptive sex. Women in contraceptive societies who have free BC get pregnant less, so they have less abortions - that's a no brainer. The question I'm answering is, why are the pregnancies that do occur unwanted? If you want to disprove my argument, you have to compare women before and after a society rearranges around the expectation of contraception. Does the desirability of pregnancy decrease? Does the acceptability of abortion as a solution to unwanted pregnancy increase?
You literally said: This is wrong. I showed you statistics proving this. If you don't believe it because it was here in the US (I'm really not sure why that makes a difference to you) here is an article that talks mainly about the abortion epidemic in Russia  but also some other countries/regions and how contaception has dropped the rate of abortion. https://www.guttmacher.org/gpr/2003/10/contraceptive-use-key-reducing-abortion-worldwide
No, you didn't. Let's be clear. I say birth control creates the demand for abortion. I'm comparing [society where contraceptives are nonexistent/unacceptable] vs. [society where contraceptives are the expected norm] You say birth control decreases abortion. You're comparing, in a society where contraceptives are accepted, [women with more access/usage to birth control] vs. [women with less] You're talking past me. Also, Guttmacher was created by Planned Parenthood, so keep in mind that they have a interest in perpetuating the contraceptive/abortion cycle I'm talking about. Think about it: Would you trust a sugar company's study proving the health benefits of sugar? Would you trust it more or less if you found out their other branch sells diabetes drugs?
No but I've shown you that historically contraception lessens the demand for abortion not the other way around.
No, you still haven't. You've shown that in a contraceptive society, women with more access to birth control get less abortions. You haven't even commented on societies where contraception is unaccepted/not present.
What do you want me to comment on besides they are probably the same as USA and Russia? Why would any other country be  different?  Do you have any evidence supporting otherwise? I'd love to hear it because so far the statistics are in favor of providing BC to prevent abortion.
You're still talking past me. Look, you've done a great job showing stats that women in contraceptive societies have less abortions when they have more birth control. I already agree with you on that, it's a no-brainer. In a culture where pregnancies are unwanted for most of a woman's reproductive years, obviously reducing pregnancies will reduce unwanted pregnancies, and so abortion. This is still not addressing my argument that making a non-contraceptive society into a contraceptive society increases demand for abortion. The story is essentially the same across the US and other western countries. Before contraception: Marriage is prevalent and happens at a younger age and women make their livings in ways that complement pregnancy and raising children. Often, family structures are multi-generational to provide more support in childcare. Pregnancy and children are just normal, expected, welcome parts of life. Abortion still occurs, like any other crime, but it is socially and/or legally condemned. Contraception is introduced and becomes widespread. Women begin to delay childbearing and marriage. They are expected to make their living in ways that are incompatible with raising children. Uncommitted relationships increase and men begin to expect sex without having to provide for a family. Pregnancy rates decline, but the remaining pregnancies are more often unexpected, in situations where children are highly unwanted. The demand for abortion increases, and public morality adjusts accordingly. Now your studies come into play. In a contraceptive society, sex tends to happen in situations where resulting children are unwanted. You show that women with an easier time preventing pregnancy in these situations get less abortions. Of course! But it's neglecting to address why sex (and accidental pregnancies) are happening in situations where children are unwanted in the first place. Making contraception the norm in any society has never turned public morality against abortion. It's very obvious why.
There used to be a lot more “premature” babies or women would be sent to go live with their “aunt.” I have an aunt who married her boyfriend at 17 and my grandmother married her husband. Both had children roughly 7 months later. Heck, some of the nobles in medieval time encouraged their daughters to sleep with kings to gain political favors. Sex outside of marriage had been around for a long time.

That doesn't mean birth control doesn't reduce unplanned pregnancies and abortions (see this blog post). I agree, though, that "even in a world where every woman used birth control when she didn't want to get pregnant, there would still be a need for abortion restrictions."


Well good on the bishop.
Full discloser I was pro-choice. Over the years I learned the other side of the argument and am no pro life. The one thing I can not get past is if abortion is legal at least it is done in a safe environment with doctors and supervision. If it is illegal women will go to "back ally abortion clinics" and can be seriously hurt or killed. How do you get past this line of thinking?
See, this is an emotional argument that has little to logic behind it. Should we make heroin legal becuase right now it's illegal and people go get it illegally and then they overdose? This, like all elective abortions, is a personal responsibility argument (among other arguments). My duty is not to the person who has a choice in the matter, the mother. My duty is to the person who doesn't have a choice, the baby. One would choose a dangerous path of back alley abortions. The other has no choice in having it's limbs ripped apart and it's life ended.
This is a horrible comparison. There is actually a lot of potential in decriminalizing harder drugs and creating a safer environment for people to get  them in safe doses and with safe equipment. These programs while expensive would save money in the long run by working as rehabilitation centers to help get the users clean. The legalization process only affects the user (ignoring tax costs which they will ultimately use anyway ). In abortion it is not just the mother who is affected, but the child also. A better response would be to say "should we legalize dog fights since people do it anyway and dogs get hurt?" Or "should we legalize theft, since people do it anyway, and sometimes the thief gets hurt or killed in the processes?"
You can't strain gnats when it comes to abortion analogies because abortion is the only thing where the innocent party dies 100% of the time. There is no equivalent. Your comparisons fall short as well, but I'm smart enough to be able to take what is true in them and use that for my edification.
Hold up there bro and take a look at your argument. The decriminalization and rehabilitation efforts have not been done on a large enough scale to prove any of it could have a real effect. Yes, that was implemented in Portugal but they have a relatively small population (there are twice as many people in the NYC metro area than all of Portugal) , 1/100th the size of the US, half the GDP per capita as the US, and a completely different border situation than the US. Its like comparing apples and oranges here. You can't extrapolate data on the community or small country level then apply that to how it would work on a large country...
If we make murder illegal, murderers will resort to "back alley" murders and can be seriously hurt or killed when they murder people. How do you get past this line of thinking?
OP is mistaking himself dreadfully for thinking this is his hangup. His real hangup is not believing unborn people are people. I am 100% certain his rebuttal to this will be "but those are ADULTS, REAL people. So its not the same." which is his real issue.
I know right? 99% of these objections and exceptions come from not recognizing the equal rights the unborn deserve.
The ONLY argument that doesn't boil down to "they're not real people" is "i know it's a person but i don't care, they should be allowed to be killed." That is THE most intellectually honest and coherent pro-choice argument (don't mistake this for agreeing with it, I'm just giving it kudos for at least being consistent), and yet i have only heard maybe 1 person ever say it,and it was online. Never heard it again.
Yeah, unfortunately I've heard a disturbing number of prochoicers admit that they believe there's nothing objectively wrong with killing a human being because human life has no inherent value. That it's only "wrong" insofar as society agrees against the killing of "persons". They have agreed that newborns are probably not "persons" until they have self recognition. And the severely mentally disabled don't count either. One of these people claims to be an abortionist. Ugh, this is how abortion progresses to euthanasia in some countries.
I have heard an exchange like this: "What if someone had killed you when you were a fetus?" "I would be blissfully unaware that i had ever existed, because i would have just been a fetus!" This person was an atheist who did not believe in the afterlife. According to her beliefs, NO ONE will ever be aware that they have died. Everyone of every age will be blissfully unaware that they ever existed. And yet her premise was that that's why it's okay to kill a fetus and not a "person" Lol
I recently read an article arguing that newborn infants, just like a foetus, are not self aware and therefore are not persons. Therefore, it is OK to kill them. But we prefer the term after birth abortion rather than infanticide because of the stigma. Not kidding. I'll go find it for you. Edit: Read this: http://jme.bmj.com/content/early/2012/03/01/medethics-2011-100411 "Merely being human is not in itself a reason for ascribing someone a right to life" "The moral status of an infant is equivalent to that of a fetus in the sense that both lack those properties that justify the attribution of a right to life to an individual"
I agree with your assessment.  Some people don't see the unborn as people, and that can be either due to ignorance, or possibly due to the convenience of that excuse allowing them to live the way they choose. But some people simply think it is okay to remove other people as obstacles.  They have a world they want, and abortion is one way they will make sure that there are fewer complications to it. A few of them are straight up with this, but most at least try to rationalize or misdirect others as to what their opinion really is.  The dark side of the co-called "progressive" world-view is often that they believe obstacles to that utopia who are inconvenient can be removed.  They'd never say that, but they quietly nod their heads in agreement when someone decides that they don't want to deal with a disabled child, or even just an unexpected one.
Well written. It is remarkably easy to goad a tipsy pro-choice person to admit that they think there's no problem in killing a homeless person who has profound memory problems from alcoholism/drugs and whom nobody would miss. And they don't admit it defensively, just casually and thoughtfully. Like "yeah i suppose it doesn't matter then, because memories, experiences, and relationships are what constitute personhood. I guess i see what you're saying, it is okay to kill mentally ill homeless people, because they're not technically people i guess. I understand." I'm not kidding.  People who are otherwise kind, normal, intelligent,  and well adjusted. The average person actually. I know because I've done it. Try it. As long as they don't know you're prolife, they'll cop to it.
(note that I do not agree with the below) Read this: http://jme.bmj.com/content/early/2012/03/01/medethics-2011-100411 "Merely being human is not in itself a reason for ascribing someone a right to life" "The moral status of an infant is equivalent to that of a fetus in the sense that both lack those properties that justify the attribution of a right to life to an individual"
why could that not be considered a valid reason/possibility though, rather than arising from ignorance or being just a solution to cognitive dissonance? is there evidence that would prove or at least imply that someone is wrong if they were to say that? please note that i am not trying to argue against you, i'd like to understand the topic a bit better
The first question is really, "how could they not be people?" We were all in that state of development at one point.  We also know that unborn children never turn into dogs or other species if allowed to develop normally.  They share the same species as the parents. So, ultimately, you need to argue against the rather simple conclusion that an individual organism with individual genes which is of the human species is not a person.  Science provides plenty of evidence to make the case that they're human, and it seems to me that, at least in the West, we usually take a dim view of people trying to classify others as sub-humans. Now, despite that clear trend, you could make an argument that they aren't people.  But bear this in mind: To whose benefit is that decision made? Clearly, this is not to the child's benefit.  They are killed.  Even if somehow their death would be desirable to the child, they could not even voice or indicate consent to their own demise. The benefit is always to another party.  And that party isn't even always primarily the mother.  The father of the child, the family of the parents, and even the State, may be the beneficiary of that distinction. As a human right, we consider the right to life to be rather important, and with good reason.  If I can deprive you of life, no other right you have has any meaning. So there is considerable burden on someone who suggests that a human being can be subject to summary and completely arbitrary termination of their existence. The problem you're going to run into is the evidence is so plain, that people want to make it complicated so that they can continue to live the life they choose.  That is why it is either ignorance, dissonance, or outright selfishness. We have a responsibility with something as core as the right to life to be careful with it.  And where there is doubt, we need to err on the side of life, not death.  And we need to ensure that our decisions are definitely not predicated based on someone else's benefit exclusively.
If stealing is illegal thieves might be afraid to report crimes committed against them while they're stealing things, they could get seriously beaten or even killed, we should make stealing legal and regulate it so that it can be done safely.
Don't get me wrong, I don't want to have anything bad happen to pregnant women. However, what they're doing is killing another person.  That doesn't feel very safe to me at all. The major problem with back alley abortions is not that they are dangerous to everyone involved, although they certainly are.  The problem is that women feel like they need to get them, either through societal pressure or fear. Most of the time, we look down on the idea that sex is primarily evolved for reproduction as some sort of ultra conservative moral stricture. The reality is, however, that this is primarily why there is a reward system associated with it. So, while I am not saying that you necessarily have to abstain if you don't want children (My wife and I have no children ourselves through choice), I will point out that people engaging in that activity are like sky divers.  You're going to have fun doing it, but ultimately, if your equipment fails and you end up as a pancake, you really can't suggest you didn't know that you could die from the activity. So if you engage in recreational sex, by all means, do so.  But there are risks involved.  And more importantly, you can end up with another person's life on your hands from doing it. So if you want to end back alley abortions, you end the societal pressure on women to go to get abortions to begin with.  You show them that while, yes, it is a considerable inconvenience to have an unexpected child, we are there for mothers, whether they ultimately want to keep the child or not.  There is nothing wrong with being pregnant. That is the best, and really only good answer.  Suggesting that we make abortion "safe and legal" is merely homicide made palatable.
Thank you, this is really well stated. And i completely agree with all of the above. I think that having abortions available have made it easier to discriminate against pregnant women, judge women's decision to have a child. And also it reinforces the social idea that there is something wrong with being pregnant. We need to normalize and support pregnancy, rather than normalizing abortion.
Abortion is already normalized. I went to high school in the UK and several of my classmates had abortions before even hitting the age of 16 (Legal age of consent)! In fact it was so normalized that when I moved to another country as a young adult, where abortion is illegal, I thought of it as barbaric to take away that "choice." In reality, it was likely the best thing that could have happened to me. It forced me to reevaluate my views, and now.. Well here I am. Abortion is murder in my eyes, wether it's at 1 week or 30.
I think an important point here is that this argument isn't really about whether abortion is killing a child or not and if you address it directly it doesn't have to be about abortion at all - it would be more about health care, child care, and adoptions services. The question of do you think an unborn child has a right to life is more cut and dry than most people treat it. It's pretty much abortion is ok or it's not ok. The question of whether or not a woman can or wants to raise a child doesn't change any of the arguments of whether the child is a person with a right to life. If the child is, then abortion can't exist. But delving into the realm of social services for mothers and children is a different subject. Yes, a woman should be able to have a trustworthy adoption process. Yes, she should get prenatal care because we believe she and the child are people. Yes, she should not have to be in mortal danger because of her pregnancy. But those are all healthcare questions. They're not personhood questions. The point of the pro-life side isn't deciding who deserves to live. The point is we all deserve to live. So if someone tries to skirt the law and gets hurt in the process, unless the resources she needs were not available, it's a tragedy but it's a tragedy she caused. So the answer to "what about dangerous abortions" isn't, well ok to stop those we should allow all abortions. The answer is, we need to do everything possible to make women feel safe and supported, rather than lost and hopeless. That has less to do with the unborn's right to life and more to do with the mother's right to care.
I would agree with you. I definitely don't want women, or anyone for that matter, going through risky and dangerous "back alley" procedures. I want all people to be safe and secure and have access to good, quality healthcare. And I agree with you that I want abortions to be safe. If abortions were safe, I would 100% unequivocally support legal abortions. So ultimately, if abortions could be made as safe for the child as it is for the mother, sign me up and legalize it. The problem is, a successful and safe abortion always has a 50% fatality rate: the child dies. I would like to suggest, if you have just a few minutes, to listen to this very short video. It's only a few minutes, and is a conversation between a prolife advocate and someone on the prochoice side of the fence on this exact issue. Might be interesting to you.
90% of abortions in the years prior to Roe were performed illegally by physicians. The idea of massive amounts of dangerous back alley abortions is untrue. It did rarely happen, but even with legalized abortion it still happens. The goal of public policy is to minimize risk, not eliminate all risk. There will always be people that do dangerous things. Even legal abortions performed by trained physicians pose a risk, it's not something you can eliminate.
My mother and stepmother had abortions by doctors pre and post Roe. Safe! Right? Nope. Not for them or the dead baby. It ruined them physically and emotionally. Also pushed on them by the men in their lives to control them because how dare they get pregnant. But it’s such a safe medical procedure where it does nothing because it’s just a clump of cells! So disgusting.
Well, people will always be trying to kill each other. Murder will never go away. The fact that it's illegal means sometimes people must hire hitmen, who may kill the wrong person or end up killing the person who hired them for failure to pay. Some people who have committed murder also resort to killing themselves because the investigation is closing in on them and they know they're going to prison. How sad that it being illegal actually causes MORE death!  What we need is a regulated LEGAL avenue for murder, so that you can just get your killin overwith as cleanly and safely as possible.
You could say this about any "crime". I know it's not the same thing, however if the government doesn't legalize and regulate meth for instance then people will just get it on the streets and it will be less safe. I don't think we need to be legalizing meth because more people will ultimately use it. Again, not the same thing because meth use only affects the user, where as abortion involves two parties (one unwillingly).
I think there is a legitimate decision as to whether to criminalize something or not.  Often it comes down to a trade off of the impacts. For instance, I do not partake in, nor really think it is a great idea to use many drugs in a recreational fashion. However, I support de-criminalization of those that are not going to cause a situation that harms society.  In those cases, I feel like the "cure" for the problem (incarceration and consequent loss of employability) is worse than that disease.  We can compromise on that by merely changing the law to recognize crimes like public intoxication or operating a vehicle under the influence without criminalizing mere possession. To contrast the drug issue with abortion, the central problem with abortion is very simply that someone is getting killed.  If it was some issue of less extreme import, there might otherwise be a lot of sense to the pro-choice arguments about safe procedures and such.  But considering the stakes, the priority is backwards. Abortion is one place where the fallacy of compromise tends to rear its head with terrible results.  People who are against abortion personally but feel there is some need for compromise are falling prey to the idea that there can be some compromise made on actual abortions.  But the reality is that any "compromise" that results in the death of an innocent person is no compromise at all.  A so-called compromise on that matter completely ignores the most important consideration: human lives are being lost every hour of every day to this.
Well it simply isn't true. Look up Kermit Gosnell. He wasn't the only guy cutting corners and hurting the women who came to him. There are probably others still doing it. The left has fought against any rules that require abortionists to meet even the most basic standards of cleanliness. These rules apply to all other doctors and dentists, but abortionists are left with basically no rules at all. How is that safe? And all that leaves aside that almost all women who have an abortion eventually regret it and suffer depression. It increases the risk of getting cancer and it makes it harder, in some cases, for the women to conceive again. The truth about abortion is there's always a harmful downside for the woman. Safe, legal, and rare is simply three lies in one sentence.
Thank you for the perspective it really helped. The pro life community is so much more welcoming and kinder then the pro choice. I once said that its better to have a baby up for adoption then to have an abortion and i never received so much hate....
A pro-life user who comments here frequently suggested that I comment on this thread.  I'm not sure that you want my perspective on your original question, but since you mention the pro-choice community, well... I assume you're referring to this thread, which was the Ontario community and not a specifically pro-choice community.  The post in question was about how, if a 12yo is pregnant, then her parents should not be able to force her to "have kids."  You suggested adoption, as though the biggest problem with continuing a pregnancy at twelve is childcare, rather than parturition and gestation. When people reacted with blunt disapproval, you defended yourself saying that, well, it would be different if she had been raped.  People expressed further concern as to your assumptions at the situation, because the scenario in question involved a twelve-year-old. So saying that you received hate from the pro-choice community for suggesting adoption is missing a few relevant details.  It would be more accurate to say "I received hate from the Ontario community for forgetting that twelve-year-olds can't consent to sex." The above post contains no pro-choice or pro-life content.
Things always get more dangerous when they're outlawed. That's kind of the point.

I am happy to see my state fighting this battle. When Roe v Wade was decided, I’ll never forget the feelings I had. It was absolutely gut wrenching
I like that this article includes a link to the bill; I hadn't gotten around to reading it yet. This isn't true.  It's demonstrably false. (Citation: https://journals.lww.com/greenjournal/Abstract/2004/04000/Risk_Factors_for_Legal_Induced_Abortion_Related.20.aspx -- even at 21+ weeks, the maternal mortality rate is 8.9 per 100,000; the overall maternal mortality rate in the US as of 2013 is 18 per 100,000, about twice as high.) And I'm not saying that needs to change your mind about abortion.  A lot of you on here are life-begins-at-conception types, and these statistics are therefore not very relevant. But doesn't it bother you when your laws have lies in them? EDIT: as I often mention here, this post contains no pro-life or pro-choice content.
Except your statistics are not the same ones the law claims.
Did I miss something in the law?  I didn't see any statistics cited. I'm citing the Green Journal, which is the highest-impact ob/gyn journal in the US, and the CDC. Who are they citing?
The quote specifically says “uncomplicated pregnancies” and “vast majority.” The maternal mortality rate you include would have both high risk and low risk pregnancies, wouldn’t it? Which would mean that the law is not including lies at all. If you can find me statistics on the maternal mortality rate for low risk pregnancies then I would entertain your argument. Or, perhaps the law is referencing statistics in certain states. In my state, the rate is 6.1/100,000, per the March of Dimes, which would be lower than the 8.9 you mention.
The vast majority of pregnancies don't involve a maternal death -- whether they end in termination or live birth.  Those that do involve a death are, generally, complicated.  The most common cause of death, for example, is postpartum hemorrhage.  Those pregnancies were uncomplicated at 15 weeks, at 38 weeks, and at the moment of delivery. There isn't actually a formal obstetric criteria for "high risk" vs "low risk" pregnancies, so the statistics you ask for don't exist.  However, from my experience with abortions in the 21-24 week range, I feel such an adjustment would significantly help the abortion statistics, as that gestational age range often involves women for whom pregnancy has uncovered health problems that are the dominant part of their decision to abort.  (I'm not saying that these women constitute the majority of these pregnancies, but it doesn't take a lot to shift the statistics.) Mississippi doesn't actually have any providers that go past 20 weeks (which is why its 20-week ban hasn't been challenged), so I could also reasonably use the statistic for 16-20 weeks, which is 3.4/100,000. (I'm also using statistics from 1988-1997 for abortions -- rates for maternal mortality will vary a lot by state, ethnicity, and year.) (Edited: listed wrong state.)
These three sentences seem to contradict one another.
I see what’s you mean. Let me clarify: An initially uncomplicated pregnancy delivers. Postpartum hemorrhage results in death. The pregnancy, in hindsight, was complicated by postpartum hemorrhage.
It matters to me quite a bit because it gives people more reason to challenge the credibility of  what we are trying to achieve. It doesn't help that most vocally pro-life politicians are decidedly disgusting people who have no idea how to explain the pro-life position with anything else besides "the Bible's says..." when there is an abundance of pro-life arguments that have nothing to do with god. It doesn't need to include statistics like that, when abortion already has a 100% mortality rate.
Assuming you are correct, then it does bother me, but if having that little tidbit in there helped pass the law (don’t know why it would) then I take an “ends justifies the means” view on it. If lives are being saved then that’s what really matters to us. And yes, I thank you for your respectful inquiry. Have an upvote
If you don't have an honest government, though, what ends will you wind up with? (I say that, but Trump is president, so this bill is a drop in the lie-bucket.)
The same government we’ve always had haha. Seriously though, I’m assuming this isn’t a slippery slope, so I don’t assume this dishonesty would lead to out of control dishonesty across the board. This is not the ideal way for these restrictions to pass, but I’m an accountant so I look at the numbers, I see the unborn saved, so I’m not mad. I understand your position though

I think choosing to abort a healthy child based on gender or race is a little different than aborting a child with a deformity that is going to make life difficult for them and their parents.  I mean, when someone has sex they know a baby could result, and as such they can plan for a baby, but they aren’t planning to have to care for a child that may need thousands of dollars regularly in medical bills or a child that may need constant care through its childhood and adult years. In my view, abortion should not take place ESPECIALLY in the case of a healthy child, but it’s a little more understandable in cases of serious medical complications or of course, cases of rape/incest.  It’d be preferable that it not happen at all, but in those cases, the situation could merit it.  Just my two cents.
For a disabled person, you may well feel sorry for them in the sense that they cannot take advantage of things in the same way that you might, but their disability is also their reality.  They may want to do other things, but they don't necessarily want to be dead rather than disabled. I certainly have many scare scenarios for myself where I could get disabled in some horrible way.  Certainly there are extremes of pain or other deprivation, but realistically, there has never been a better time for a disabled person to be alive.  And I think it is only getting better.  Being dead is not a desirable option even in those scenarios. Instead of removing the disabled, the challenge we should be undertaking as seeing them as motivation to further advance our ability as a society to deliver them the best life they can experience. When I think of this question, I often think of some alien race with telekinetic powers and heightened senses.  If they had a baby that was merely of human capabilities, that baby would not fit well in the alien society, perhaps, but as beings of "mere human capabilities" we know that we can experience quite a full life in spite of our limitations.  We might well mourn the loss of such a "disabled" alien, who after all, might well be above average in our own society.
This is beautifully put.
But if you ask people with those disabilities, they are happy they are alive. They don't wish they were dead, so why should we make that choice for them?

Is jury nullification a valid tactic in Canadian law?
As a defense tactic is it is prohibited in Canada to call for nullification, although it used to be possible to do so. However, as a common law jurisdiction with a jury system, jury nullification is still entirely legal in Canada, but the courts work to discourage it as much as possible by such regulations such as preventing the defense from calling on the jury to nullify. Ironically for us, just such a defense tactic to call on the jury to nullify was used to make abortion in Canada for non-life threatening situation legal in the case of Henry Morgentaler. Further ironically for us, it was after that case, that the courts banned the practice of defense lawyers calling for nullification in their arguments in Canada.
Thank you for the detailed response, I appreciate it.
Don' get me wrong, Canada is an amazing country. But I'm glad I live in a country with the constitutional right to Free Speech.
Everyone who suffers in the fight for human rights is blessed.

I just watched this movie on Netflix last night with my wife and we came away from it with different takes. We are both Pro-Life but the story resonated with us differently.  I'm curious what you all think, if you've seen it.
Pro.
It was a rage against traditional values type of movie. It seemed to try to portray a husband and wife with children living a good suburban life, as something unfulfilling. Pretty typical storyline nowadays.
That was my take too...
Ireland will soon have an abortion referendum so I wanted to convince as much friends as possible that abortion is wrong. How did it go when you talked to friends/family about abortion? Did you get backlash?I rarely see my friends in person anymore, but we got along well and get on well whenever we see each other. I was thinking of using facebook (I'm not on it, but i will set one up) . Have any of you used facebook to talk to friends about abortion? Do you think it's a good idea? How does facebook work? If I make a post is it possible they won't even see it because of a busy news feed?I will put a draft of the facebook post in the comments of this post. Any advice/improvements would be great. All criticism welcome! Is my post too long?P.S One of my prolife friends said I should use less arguements/facts/logical reasoning, and should instead appeal more to emotion. However I thought people should hear the facts to understand what abortion truely is and use logic to explain why its as bad as infantcide.
If there was a way, the world would see it by now, unfortunately. The problem is cognitive dissonance as well as the perceived battle against male dominance. Some people will just never see the hypocrisy of it. The idea of liberation from the supposed oppression is, to these people, the ultimate fight. If they win the right to do whatever they want without consequence, they will finally be truly free and equal. Never mind that this comes at the cost of innocent lives. People would rather see the the world burn than agree with someone they see as "everything wrong with the world" ie. religious people and white men (even though many pro-lifers are neither of those things, including myself.) Your best bet is to explain how important it is to protect the right to life of all human beings, because if you take the rights of the weakest of us, be prepared to have your rights taken next. If we do not all have the right to life, then none of us have it. It isn't up to us to decide which kinds of human deserve protection. I don't think an emotional argument or a scientific one would work. Like I said, if it worked, there would be no abortion. These people don't care about facts until they fit their narrative. I'm not hopeful.
Unfortunately I agree. People are indoctrinated with such a hate for these groups and for morality that they will believe anything, regardless of facts, so long as it is convenient for them.
Watch this, all of you: https://youtu.be/joaTrukxKag Yes, it’s an hour. Set aside an hour and watch it.
Very useful, I would also recommend this to pro-lifers
FACEBOOK POST DRAFT Hi everyone, I wanted to write a quick open letter to you guys on something very important to me. The 8th amendment referendum will potentially allow abortion up to the 12th week of pregnancy. I'm against abortion/ repealing the 8th amendment and wanted to explain why. 𝐃𝐢𝐬𝐜𝐥𝐚𝐢𝐦𝐞𝐫 : I'm 100% morally ok with a woman getting life saving treatment, such as chemotherapy or ending an ectopic pregnancy. Of course I find this tragic and hope that medicine further improves, but I think it is morally ok to do this to save the mothers live.(This is what the law allows now) In many instances both the mother and baby die if there is no treatment. 𝟏) 𝟏𝟐 𝐰𝐞𝐞𝐤𝐬 If the 8th is repealed abortion will be allowed up to the 12 week. Even if you are ok with ending the life of an early developed human, 12 weeks is a lot of time for development. By the 10th week the baby already has a 𝐛𝐫𝐚𝐢𝐧, 𝐧𝐞𝐫𝐯𝐞𝐬, 𝐬𝐩𝐢𝐧𝐚𝐥 𝐜𝐡𝐨𝐫𝐝, several organs:(heart, intestine, kidneys, liver) and is able to bend his/her limbs. A brain is responsible for thought/ consciousness, and nerves and spinal chord along with brain are responsible for pain. Here's where I got the info:https://www.babycenter.com/6_your-pregnancy-10-weeks_1099.bc (This info is not from a pro-life website, so there is no motive to stretch the truth. It never mentions abortion. If you don't believe me do your own search on fetal development. It's good to be skeptical.) 𝟐) 𝐌𝐲 𝐛𝐨𝐝𝐲, 𝐦𝐲 𝐜𝐡𝐨𝐢𝐜𝐞 This is commonly said by pro-choicers. They want control over their bodies. I absolutely agree. A person should have control over there body and do whatever the hell they want with it, as long as they don't harm anyone else. However abortion kills a baby. Abortion advocates say that the human life that you end in an abortion is not important. Pro-choicers are against killing newborns, however they say that newborns are important, but babies in the womb aren't. I will explain in paragraph 1 and 3 why I disagree with them. 𝟑) 𝐂𝐥𝐮𝐦𝐩 𝐨𝐟 𝐜𝐞𝐥𝐥𝐬 Often pro-choicers say “Its not a human life, its just a clump of cells.” Well....so are all of us. However I assume what they mean is its an unorganised ball of cell that isn't organised into: cells>tissue>organs>systems. And yes, its true that in the embryo, morula, blastocyste stages its a ball of cells. However “clump of cells” is an intentionally misleading phrase used by abortion advocates. Yes, although it is a ball of cell, it 𝐢𝐬 a whole (early development) human organism, with 𝐩𝐨𝐭𝐢𝐞𝐧𝐭𝐚𝐥 𝐬𝐞𝐧𝐭𝐢𝐞𝐧𝐜𝐞 . It isn't 𝐣𝐮𝐬𝐭 a bunch of cells like how a tissue of skin cells is. Zygotes, morulas, blastocystes are organisms, skin cells are not. Anyway it is a ball of cells only for a short period, here's a website that goes through the development week by week: https://www.babycenter.com/6_your-pregnancy-2-weeks_6000.bc 𝟒) 𝐏𝐫𝐞𝐦𝐚𝐭𝐮𝐫𝐞 𝐛𝐚𝐛𝐢𝐞𝐬 Some political groups (Example: People before profit) don't want to stop at 12 weeks. They want to go up to 24 weeks like a lot of countries allow (sometimes even later than this). However by this logic they should be ok with killing premature babies. Here are statistics on survival rates of babies who are born around the time that these particular countries allow abortion. Babies born at 23 weeks have a 29% chance of survival (50% of them have no disability at age 3). Babies born at 24 weeks have a 46% chance of survival (60% of them have no disability at age 3). Source: http://www.inha.ie/definition-of-premature-birth/ 𝑇ℎ𝑎𝑛𝑘𝑠 𝑓𝑜𝑟 𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑖𝑛𝑔! 𝑌𝑜𝑢 𝑐𝑎𝑛 𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑒𝑛𝑡 𝑜𝑟 𝑝𝑚 𝑚𝑒, 𝑖𝑓 𝑦𝑜𝑢 𝑤𝑎𝑛𝑡 𝑡𝑜 𝑎𝑠𝑘 𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠, 𝑔𝑒𝑡 𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑖𝑓𝑖𝑐𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 𝑜𝑟 𝑑𝑒𝑏𝑎𝑡𝑒 𝑚𝑒!
I usually prefer logical arguments myself, and there are many. However, there are many people on both sides who will not be moved without an emotional appeal.  So, emotion is a valid means of argumentation... as long as you don't allow it to become inaccurate. For instance if you were to say: "Abortion is murder", in the US, that is technically not true as murder is a crime and killing children in abortions is legal. That said, if you consider that the real statement is that "abortion has the moral equivalence to murder," in most cases you'd be 100% correct.  It only exists to allow one human to improve their standard of living at the expense of another's life. That's a mouthful, though, so simply saying "abortion is murder" is probably better rhetorically if you are dealing with people who act on their emotions more than their logic. Know your audience and modify your approach to match.  I'm firmly pro-life but even so, some overly emotional appeals against abortion tend to make me cringe a bit. On the other hand, for others, those over-emotional arguments are absolutely necessary to move them as what tends to tie them to abortion can be things like, "my girlfriend/sister/mother had one or supports legalization, and I don't want to think she's a bad person".  Those are poor arguments logically, but have a strong emotional component to them which can sometimes only be overcome with equal emotional counterattack.
This is actually a very good point you have brought up, although i prefer logical arguments and this may be convincing to many people, I also have to take into account the many people who are more presueded by emotional arguments. I think recently i am getting better at making emotional counterpoints. For example pro-abortion people say that it is inhumane to "force" a rape victim to be pregnant. Pro-aborts say "Could you look a rape victim in the eyes and to her she is must grow the rapists seed in her?" My counter argument would be to ask the pro-aborts "Could you say to a person conceived in rape that it would have been perfectly fine if they were aborted and infact it would have been a violation if they were protected by law."
I've openly discussed abortion with my pro-choice brother, sister, and father. It's never gone "well," in the sense that they change their mind on the issue. Even when I present them with rational pro-life arguments, the best case scenario is them ending the discussion with, "Well that's just how I feel about it, and that's not gonna change." So... good luck, man.
I was worried about doing this, but hearing other people such as yourself doing it has encouraged me to take action.
I think it's great. You should put it up. It's important for people to know that their are others out there who are prolife. Prochoice is not the majority, they are just loud. We need to start making our presence known. Human being's tend to drift with the crowd. Your post is good. If you want to keep it short just say, I am voting NO on repealing the 8th. Go for it! Just make sure you are ready for some loud prochoicers to attack your post. And if you can summon support before you put it up and get those people to like or add a positive comment to your post. Do not get lured into a facebook fight. Keep your responses short and to the point. Do not get emotional. Cheers! Keep it up.
Thanks! Good idea about the support. I know a good few pro-lifers who could do that. Interesting point about pro-choicers being a vocal minority, i will keep this in mind. Also it seems that a lot of prolifers are afraid to speak out. I'm hoping this is the case and that there are much more prolifers than there seems. Also I think people have a bad view of the prolife movement, because of weird propganda slipped into our entertainment (Prime example "kingsman" equating jew/"n-word"/"f-word" murdering with the prolifers:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RdG6gUUasVk). Hopeful any of my friends who have this misconception will relise its dumb when they see my post. It seems people are much more convinced by friends that anyone else.


Good on Mississippi
Hopefully it's not too soon for the challenge to arrive at SCOTUS after another Trump appointee or two.

How convoluted. Apparently this was a case where they were trying to give the unborn child... what, citizenship rights based on the children's parents, so as to stave off possible deportation?
Of course, the real battle is in the referendum that is happening.  Even this court decision will be effectively overturned by a vote to legalize when that happens, unfortunately.
What does this mean? Is this good or bad?
A bit mixed.  Unborn children of non-citizens are guaranteed a right to life, but are not granted legal, voting, or other rights that natural-born and naturalized citizens have. Abortion rights have a referendum at this time, so whether or not that right to life has any effective use will depend on whether or not the citizens want to go forward with pro-choice laws or not.  Depending on what laws pass, the mother's choice may have precedence over the baby's right to life, not unlike some US states.

If we don't act now every state will pass similar laws.
Every state?




Richard Dawkins didn't express a desire to personally eat human meat. He stated that the question of whether or not it was acceptable to eat meat that was genetically human but had been grown in a lab is an interesting evaluation of consequentialism. Your news source is sensationalizing it a lot and you should reevaluate it as possible propaganda. This comment contains no pro-life or pro-choice content.
It is quite clear what he said and meant. The article is entirely accurate. And, it has everything to do with being pro-life which places value in upholding human dignity against those, like Dawkins, who would destroy it. But, since you support his point of view, please do retweet it, place it on your Facebook page and other social media sights you belong to, making sure to express your total support for it.
The article is entirely accurate? Dawkins is an insufferable dork, but the article does not cite anything to support the statement in its headline that he "wants to eat human meat." Please let us know where he's said that.
In the tweet. You may want to actually read it with your blinders off. You may want to be careful about calling one of the high gods of the left a dork. You may get smitten.
Uh-huh. So where in this tweet does Dawkins say that he wants to eat human meat?
While I agree with you that he does not appear to be directly suggesting he's going to get his fork and knife and barbeque sauce ready, his questioning tone about "overcoming" our taboo reads as supportive of the concept. Strictly speaking, I don't think some lab grown meat means you're automatically an evil, cannibal murderer, but there have been some solid reasons you don't want to encourage the production of human meat. For instance, they are even more biomass where viral and bacterial agents will be able to be supported.  And if they were to use certain antibacterial products to maintain freshness and such, it could lend itself to resistant bacteria which is already evolved to chow down on human tissue. I feel like grown human meat has more downsides than upsides and Dawkins is more interested in its novelty and taboo-breaking aspects than any positive value.  And that bothers me about his statement since a lot of people take him seriously as a scientist.
Whatever your impression of the tweet (which barely registers as remarkable among the dumb things Richard Dawkins has said), this article's headline is obviously dishonest and inflammatory. I'm embarrassed but unfortunately not surprised to see people here falling for it.
I agree that the headline is inflammatory and it being posted to a group that already does not like Dawkins is click bait and reads like an echo chamber sort of post. However, Dawkins' tweet is approving of the concept, even if there is no actual evidence that he's going to actually do it himself.  That does deserve some condemnation, if not for the reason suggested. So, there is room for the headline to be corrected and the proper focus to be pointed at what he really said.  But what he said was still pretty reprehensible and frankly irresponsible, particularly for a biologist of his stature.
Dawkins will tweet whatever dumb thought enters his head. Who cares? That has not been news since he started tweeting. But, seriously? "So corrupt have the values of the left become that this progression towards cannibalism was inevitable" is bullshit on the level of "Barack Obama is a Kenyan-born secret Muslim and founder of ISIS." If you're not ashamed then you should be.
"Barack Obama is a Kenyan-born secret Muslim and founder of ISIS." That statement is provably false. "So corrupt have the values of the left become that this progression towards cannibalism was inevitable" That statement is alarmist and obviously assumes a slippery slope, but is not obviously false and certainly not provably so. Like it or not, there is a tendency for iconoclasm and moral relativity these days.  Will we hit some line which will not be crossed?  One assumes that will be the case, but we really have no evidence that we will stop short of some extra atrocity. Needless to say, we consider abortion to already to be a massive atrocity which kills hundreds of thousands of human beings every year, but that is easily soft-pedaled by the establishment. I think perhaps that the article is click bait and over dramatic, but the more people like Dawkins drop these lines, the more acceptable it becomes in society to hold similar opinions.  He's an odd, heavily biased individual, but also a respected scientist in a world which is converting them into a high priesthood on a popular level.

Still waiting! Please identify the portion of Dawkins' tweet where he says he wants to eat human meat. It'd be fascinating if you could find it.
Tastes like pork though. "Allegedly".
I heard chicken.
Either way. People are delicious. Strawmen taste even better.
Well it is the “other other white meat”
So corrupt have the values of the left become that this progression towards cannibalism was inevitable
Really? You think a cheap shot at the left fits in with the article you posted?
Dawkins, among the most significant thought leaders of the left, wrote he wanted to remove the taboo against cannibalism. You do not understand the difference between a cheap shot and the very real direction the philosophy of the left is unavoidably going.
The left is not represented by one individual even if they are well-known.
And yet there doesn’t seem to be anyone on the left speaking against this proposed horror...and there are several people here who will be joining his evangelistic efforts.
I’m against the idea of eating human meat. That problem was easy to fix.
Give it time. This is simply glimpse into your future.
Ok?
I'm a registered Dem and this idea sickens me. It's not fair to shit on the left for no reason. Like the other user said, this article has nothing to do with political affiliation.It would be more constructive for us as a movement to embrace pro-life individuals of all political and religious backgrounds, instead of weakening it by driving a wedge where ever you can find a crack.
I said left, not democrat.
You could call me "left-wing".
On the pro-life issue which is the group I posted this and provides the context for what was written? I might suggest that it is not i who is driving a wedge into a crack, but you. I suggest keeping your focus on the real danger and those who advocate things like removing the taboo against cannibalism
Would you mind clarifying for me: If meat is grown in a lab, when is it okay or not okay to eat?
Well, it would be difficult to define what is "human meat" that way. It is just "chemically/physically identical to a human muscle"? It is human just because it is identical to human?
Is that what gives human meat ethical weight as being unacceptable to eat?  Its chemical structure?  Or is it that it came from a human body? In any case, what if it's almost identical?  How different does it have to be before it's acceptable to eat?
If one has to explain to you why eating human meat is not ok, you are already lost and it would be hopeless. But, please do continue in your pursuits and proclaim your point of view to everyone who will listen....especially your friends, family, and coworkers. I might even suggest having a knife and fork in hand as you are discussing the topic with them.
I'm sorry, I was asking about meat grown in a lab, not meat taken from a human.  But that's fine, it seems you're not going to clarify it.
If no one is harmed, what is actually wrong?
Please do have this discussion with your friends, family, and coworkers, preferably with knife and fork in hand, that you think this is a situation where eating human meat is ok.
If you ca't justify your position you probably shouldn't espouse it.
I do look forward to hearing how your evangelistic efforts go to remove the taboo against cannibalism.
I dont want to read the link, but I think the issue is that he said we could overcome our taboo against cannibalism. Why? Obviously, if he brings it up as something to be "overcome," then it is something he'd  like to see or partake in. I wouldn't say it would be interesting to see if we could someday overcome our taboo of dog fighting unless I actually wanted that to happen. *** Okay, I read it. Still think what he said was weird.*** It doesn't seem necessary for them to grow human meat, so why is that important to him? He said it. To make cannibalism acceptable. Why? I don't know, but since we already accept it in dire situations, I could only guess it a "just because" kind of thing.



Seeing is believing.  Who would've thought?
Support www.preborn.org. They provide free ultrasounds. 80% of women chose life after seeing their baby.
I'm a little uncertain about the 80% statistic. Isn't that based on women at crisis pregnancy centers? In that case, it's not exactly a representative sample; you're already selecting for mothers who are uncertain about getting an abortion.
Ultrasound laws are hardly "new".

We can only dream. I sure hope so.
I'll believe it when I see it.
He would have been a great candidate for president over Trump.
Trump has been a great pro-life President.
He’s been a great president for the pro-life cause, but there are many other facets of his presidency and character that are worrying. I always wonder what a Pence presidency would look like. Greater attention to social conservatives and people of faith, which is great, but also a better-tempered personality and more focused attention to policy.
Found the cuck.
Excuse me?
You doubted Trumpy. Therefore you have attained cuck status.
Please! Big if true. YUGE
Just one more issue to keep Americans divided.  Neither party cares about issues like Abortion, or gay marriage.  They care about money-- and Republicans don't impress me when they care so much about babies before they are born, but would have them suffer a lifetime of poverty afterwards. Not really "What Jesus Would Do".
This is why we need pro-family political parties in this country. I like the positions that many European parties (like the Family Party of Germany) are taking, but neither are they successful at getting votes nor are we as a country anywhere near that kind of focused platform.
And what kind of platform would that even be?
I would agree.
Jesus wouldnt have you steal from millions to finance some. And whether you like it or not, it werent assistentialist policies that radically brought quality of life to people in the last 2 centuries. Your claim that the government should save people from poverty has no meaning. Edit: yay. Downvoting. Sounds like I hit bullseye.
Oh, I think that he would have helped the sick no matter what--- I think Jesus was more of a Socialist actually... so.  There you go.   He clearly didn't care for rich people, or letting kids go hungry or the sick go untreated.  I would say, he would value caring for those, over maintaining some rich f#cks wealth.
Socialism hangs on stealing. Actively so. Have you decided to ignore the Commandments? Have you genuinely decided to pretend Jesus did not follow them to the letter?! Like Lazarus, whom He resurrected?! Have you forgotten that he was a rich man? You also seem to imply that socialists are indifferent to the rich. That's not true. Semi-coherent socialists hate the rich, and the entirely crooked socialists get rich. You confuse charity with assistentialist policies. Charity is entirely voluntary. It is the expression of an individual's compassion, personal sacrifice and diligence. Statal policy is entirely coercitive. It is backed up by weaponry that exists to enforce a rule, however unjust. Assistentialist policies are no different. They simply have the [key word:] theoretical purpose of helping people in fragile conditions, which always seems to produce laziness + dependability towards the State in the long run, which in turn produces a breeding ground for crooked politicians with populist promises. I must warn you: paying taxes to a government that has, for example, public healthcare, wont save your soul. It is not an expression of compassion and personal sacrifice, but of economic and political foolishness. Give Caesar what is Caesar's and give God what is God's. You should have learned that by now. He wouldn't dismiss the Law for anything in this world. What makes you think He'd do that for some people's revolutionary feeling that is based on a twisted notion of how taxation and economics work? Furthermore, I'll have you know that nearly all the major socialists have recognized in one way or another that western civilization and capitalism are a direct consequence of christianity, as it shaped the notions of morality for centuries. Protestant work ethics is a good example. Catholic general ethics and the work of Saint Thomas Aquinas is another [huuuuuge] example. A vast number of philosophers and politicians recognized such influence, even when they did not like christianity itself. Names like Shulamith Firestone, Saul Alinsky, hell, even Marx himself, recognize that christian ethics must be destroyed in order to abolish the current culture and establish a new one. That's actually a part of the plan, and always was so. The soviets and the nazis even did quite the number attempting to assimilate a part of christianity into their wretched ideologies, as an alternative to complete annihilation. That's the reason why over a million catholics died in concentration camps in Germany... What Im trying to get at is: you think they were all wrong about it, but you think you got it all figured out?!
I don't believe in ANY organized religion.   I do believe in reincarnation. 2)I'm not in the mood to read anything else that you said, maybe copy and paste for a different time. 3) It's Tuesday.  Quit taking things--- THAT YOU CAN NOT CHANGE-- So seriously on a damned Tuesday. 4) I'm going to give you this for free.  I am a free thinker.  I am a pro-life, near socialist, much more socialist than Democrats. I see you have a big problem with "socialists", but why?  Are you really, THAT RICH???????  Please.  99.0% of people aren't THAT RICH... if you are, please just wipe your rich tears with the hide of endangered rhinos and STFU.
So you're not even christian, but you want to lecture christians on what Jesus — someone you only know through texts compiled by an organized religion that you distrust —  would do. Yeah, 'cause the truth is only important when you're on the mood to figure it out... /s If you had read the entire comment, we could've had a productive and civil discussion. Why shouldn't I take serious things seriously everyday? And alas, he/she throws his/her pro-life activism on the garbage bin! No. Im not. Middle class by brazilian standards. Thanks for 1)proving my point that you don't understand socialism; 2)proving you're projecting emotions unto politics; and 3)proving my point that socialists don't love the poor, you just really hate the rich.
You know, we aren't ever going to see eye to eye.  I think you are a f-king terrible person.  You think I am a f-king terrible person, let's just leave it at that.  Honestly.

Just the first?

The NRA doesn't commit mass murder tho.
They also don't give too much money for political campaign, deriving their influence from numbers, not financial power.
Idk why we have to compare the two. They both serve completely different purposes. PP is not the NRA of the democratic party. It's just an organization pushing an agenda like everyone else. I happen to think planned parenthood is one of the most harmful things about this country, and I also think that the NRA needs to start supporting legislation that makes gun ownership safer for everyone. They have nothing to do with each other.
They mean as in it bankrolls most of the party & candidates. Which it does.
I think the comparision is other. Regularly some people said "the GOP is on the packets of NRA" and use it as an argument against GOP, NRA and for restrictive gun control. In converse, there are very few people daring to connect PP to DNC. Hell, even pro-life Democrats face the scorn of Committee!




FACT makes the centers promote abortion in the same vain that having a restaurant put up an alcohol licensure notice equates it to supporting people drinking. This case would then eradicate laws that states have on the books that abrogate the speech of doctors in forcing them into compelled speech when talking to their patients about abortion (such as telling them there’s a link to breast cancer).
That's an incomplete analogy.  The law in question forces pro-life clinics to advise clients where to get a free or low-cost abortion.  It's as if a restaurant without alcohol had to advise customers that there is a restaurant with a bar nearby. Further, there's no need for this law.  To the extent that women seeking abortion are bamboozled into going to a pro-life clinic and never-ever being able to find an abortion clinic due to deceptive practices, they already have a remedy in California's laws against false advertising. Moreover, there's no shortage of pro-choice activists willing to provide free legal assistance to people deceived by pro-life clinics.

Omg that’s absolutely disgusting and incredibly gruesome. I don’t know what I was expecting but I was morbidly curious and clicked anyways. Be warned, do not watch unless you are prepared for a very gruesome video
I was going to watch it, and then I'm like "Whoa! Why the Hell would I want to watch that???"  Turned it right off.
I had no idea how abortions were done, so I was like I guess I should know. Definitely regret it, and it’s just as brutal as I imagined it would be, if not worse
There are other ways they do it earlier on, but I imagine all are terrible.
People think it's extreme when pro-lifers say abortion is murder and there should be some sort of jail time for it. I don't know how someone could watch this and say its not murder. I've also seen earlier abortion (week 11), the baby is so delicate that its limbs can be torn apart like wet tissue paper.
They don't have limbs that early, they're just a clump of cells..... /s
You should consider posting this on /r/Gore. More people need to see this.
Required viewing for any pro-choicer

It is weird to be a left-winger and not have a party that supports the right to life. I am glad that there is some glimmer of hope here that pro-lifers are too some extent welcome in the Democrat party.
Just become right wing then
They do not represent my values as a Christian.
Hey, I'm a Christian as well, and if you're open to having a conversation or hearing me out, I think you might find that conservative or libertarian Christians aren't as hateful as someone has led you to believe. Also, I should point out that Trump doesn't represent conservatives lol, just people that call themselves conservative and don't know what they mean by that
I do not think a conservative equals hateful but I think God tells us to help others. The government has an important role in doing that.
Well, God told Israel that it didn't need a king. Jesus also lived his whole life in direct defiance to Jewish government, and Roman control. Of course, we need to help one another, but the government is only in the business of helping themselves. Only give Caesar what is due to Caesar.
As a "right-wing" conservative Christian, Christianity is a more liberal movement than most. But a lot of the Democrat party seems hardly liberal these days.
Sometimes you need the Jesus from this week's gospel.
Hey listen,  I am strongly pro-life, but an adamant liberal.   I would NEVER vote Republican because of all of the other important issues.   Like, if our planet is DEAD, killing of unwanted babies is tragic yet at the same point a non-point when we as a species have personally extincted so many lifeforms.   I mean really.
I'm the same. I can't vote Republican because they're a total sell out party that will sell the earth out from under us as long as they get some $$$ for it.
If the dems want to keep the Catholic vote they need to become pro-life.
I think US Catholics have amply demonstrated the opposite.
"Catholics."
Catholics are voting more and more Republican every year.
Probably, yeah, especially if republicans warmed up to hispanics. I wonder what would happen if the democrats became pro-life. On one hand, I could see a lot of people considering the democratic party who wouldn't have before. There are probably a lot of people out there who want to support more welfare and social programs who can't because of the abortion issue. On the other hand, a huge part of the democratic base is pro-choice, and if party leadership started becoming pro-life, I'll bet a ton of democrats would jump ship for whoever would support legalized abortion.
I am sure Democratic leadership has tired to crunch the numbers.
If the Democrats became more pro-life, they would have more at the bargaining table to draw support from religious conservatives like myself.
Democrats are bankrolled by the abortion industry (Planned Parenthood and Emily's List spends billions on electing Democrats). They're never going to be on our side.
Maybe pro-life Dems should break off and start a third party. Probably wouldn't win the presidency but could probably get some seats in Congress.
Good. I want us to be a big tent movement. We need Democrats. Well, we also need more Republicans who will actually do anything.
From what I understand Illinois has open primaries, so you residents who are Republicans or Independents can still vote for Lipinski in the primary.
Whoa.
It’s such a complicated issue, and hard to defend for the side of pro choice. For pro-lifers, there argument is easier, as they can say that abortion is wrong under any circumstance, as a human is being killed. For pro choicers, they have to explain why it is right, at various stages (I.e 9 months, if someone repeatedly gets abortions as a form of birth control etc.). However m, just because it’s hard to explain, does not imply that pro lifers are right. It’s hard, because it’s a very personal opinion. On one hand, you have people who believe a fetus is a human being, on the other, you have people who think it is cells. For me, I can honesty say I don’t know what makes a human a human, and at what stage, but I can say that I am most definitely pro choice (as I don’t view a fetus as a human being). To me, I can acknowledge the fact that all fetuses are capable of becoming a human, however at the stage of becoming a fetus, i don’t consider them equal to us, as they can not develop complex emotions, thoughts, desires, etc. Instead they are akin to an animal, who needs neccacery things to survive (food water etc.). So when someone gets an abortion, it is like killing an animal. I’m not saying that it’s not sad, (just like killing a cow, for meat is still sad), but at the end of the day, the pros outweigh the cons. Morally, it may be best to avoid an abortion, through birth control, adoption etc. However, at the end of the day, it is more important to protect a mothers right to choose what is best for her, as that would strip her of her own rights. Sure it would be sad to most, just like it is sad to Kill animals for food, but at the end of the day, the pros outweigh the cons.Do you agree? I’d love to hear any opinions!
Genetically it is a human, not an animal. The pros don't outweigh the cons when the "solution" is murder.
At what age do you believe it's wrong to kill a biological human? How many months or even years? My niece can't crawl or talk, she basically just cries, drinks milk, and poops. Is it okay to kill her?
As a follow up (completely in agreement with you) when does personhood or life begin? Is it okay to have an abortion at 8 months and 15 days? Although the Canadian government says yes, I have never met a person who actually believes that is morally acceptable. So not 8 months and 15 days.. then when? It is very, very hard to draw a line. And therefore, my position, and that if many others, is that there is no line. And it is never morally permissible
When pro-choice people bring up pregnancy through rape, which is an actual, real, complex experience, pro-life people say "that's less than 1% of cases, you're derailing the conversation because it just doesn't happen". You know that 92% of pregnancies are terminated in around the 1st trimester, right, and only around 1% occur at 5 months or later? Abortions at 8 months and 15 days simply just doesn't happen. At that stage in the pregnancy, these are actual WANTED pregnancies where the mother has to make the most difficult decision, to terminate a pregnancy where the baby's development is literally incompatible with life (like not having a brain or a heart). Theorizing about these mythical 8 months and 15 day abortions that just dont exist is derailing and just plain inaccurate.
Unfortunately I feel you missed the point. The appeal was to our common agreement that no one would find an 8 month and 15 day abortion morally permissible (fetal development occurs in the first trimester, and a large anomaly such as anencephaly - no brain - would be discovered much before that point). My argument was a thought exercise, in finding the sweet spot for when life begins, and allow abortions to ubtil that point. My argument was that sweet spot does not exist. If i understand your arguments from previous comments, you are not as interested in the determination of human life, and are more appealing to the suffering of the mother. I believe what you are saying is that at any stage, abortion is allowable if the pregnancy is undesired, or to stop the suffering of the mother. This, such an exercise about when life begins would not be an argument that challenges your beliefs
All I'm saying is, the creation of life and when it begins is a very complex nuanced process. You can go ahead and debate and theorize all you want, but when it leads to tangible barriers to women trying to get abortions (anti-choice legislation and rhetoric that leads to protestors and violence at clinics and shame that affects the health of actual real life people), then that's not morally right for you to have power over that person's body and medical decisions.
I am strongly against violence at clinics or shame and suffering for women who chose abortions. I think we have already agreed that a further discussion on the relative morality of autonomy versus life of a fetus would not be beneficial to either side.
The baby is not their body, what part of that do you not understand?
What part don't you understand of, if it weren't for my body being used, it would be unable to sustain its own life?
Who say's I don't understand that part? Duh, of course the baby wouldn't survive if not for your body, that is the whole purpose of having a baby, so that it is nurtured and grows inside of the mother. That still doesn't change the fact that it is a separate entity than you.
What if the mother doesn't WANT a baby to nurture and grow inside of them without their consent (again in my case of rape)? That's the point: why does the fetus have the right to be there, using my body, nutrients, well-being, when I don't consent to my body being used that way?
Just fyi, the whole 'rape' scenario is such an insignificant number of the actual total of abortions that take place. Most of the time it is just mothers who can't keep legs closed, but not saying that in your case. But, even if so, that baby is still innocent. That baby didn't rape you, why should the baby be killed?

If someone could prove to you that the fetus is a human, would you change your mind?
Do you support abortion up until birth for any reason? If not, why not?
Dont consider them equal to us - if that allows abortion, that is a very slippery slope. Is infanticide ok? Murder of the mentally disabled? Death and/or murder of the elderly, infirm, or demented? Most people would say no, that that's wrong. That there is an intrinsic value to life even when people are disabled or old or infirm. That same value to life applies to the preborn (fetus). A fetus is a human being. It is an independent organism of the human species. At the moment sperm joins egg, the DNA created is that both different from the mother and father. That is the definition of a different organism, although dependent on the mother (see argument 1, dependence does not counter the intrinsic value to life). What you may be trying to argue is that a fetus does not yet have personhood. This is still a tricky stance to take, as when does personhood occur? If it is not at the moment of conception when a new organism is created, then when does it happen? Does it happen at birth? At age 2? only when a being is sentient and can undestand what is going on around them. Ok, let's say that's true. Beings don't have sentience until age 2, when they can comprehend the outside world. But if beings at 18months old don't have personhood, is it ok to kill them up until that point? Most people would say, absolutely not. So therefore the morality of killing someone is not dependent on their personhood. Now personhood becomes more of a philosophical argument that is not required in the debate of aboriton. pros outweigh the cons - if you buy in to arguments 1 and 2, you are saying that abortion is killing an different, biologically separate (not independent) human being. There is no way the pros outweigh the cons. The pros may be independence of the mother and father, not having to give up freedoms in their life, etc. But how does this outweigh the right of a being to live? Also, I would say this argues more towards our society having failed pregnant women and families. We have made it difficult on pregnant women to be pregnant, to carry their babies to delivery, to deliver their babies, and to raise them in their families. That failure is on us. But just because we have failed in that aspect, does not make abortion morally allowable. Would strip her of her own rights - so you're saying a mother has an independent right to end the life of another? It is inside her body, dependent on it. But let's say a woman is 8 months and 15 days pregnant. Is it morally allowable to have an abortion. Although it is legal in Canada (no comment on morality, just legality), it is very restricted in the US, and for good reason. I believe recent polling data from 2016 from the Guttmaker institute (which is pro-choice, collections information on abortion access, etc) 60%+ of Americans believe abortions in the third trimester are morally wrong. They do not believe that a mother having an aboriton late in pregnancy is allwoable, or a mother's right. if that is so, go back to argument 1 and 2. I thought we already decided that the value of a human person is not dependent on development or ability to care for oneself,  but is something intrinsic to being of the human species. i have yet to face an abortion argument that does not fall to the above points. Most of the arguments I hear are out of compassion for the mother, and out of difficulty of being pregnant in our culture. I would say we can be compassionate to those who are pregnant unplanned, but don't have to be so by allowing abortion. We can support them and stop failing them by making pregnancy, and the rearing of children so difficult. That's our real moral duty. And to skirt our moral duty and allow abortions because it's easier is our true failing. Please let me know if you have questions or challenges to some of the posits/ philosophical arguments that i made above. I do enjoy engaging people on this topic.
A fetus has the potential of human life, and that is what makes it different. It is not murder, as they have not been born. That is what makes it different than all of the above scenarios, and why they are not considered equal to a human. I’m not saying it isn’t sad to end the potential life, I’m saying that it’s not killing, and why a women’s right is more important
There is no such thing as a partial human. It's human or it isn't. There also is no such thing as a human nonperson. I think you came to the subreddit thinking your argument was somehow original, and ended up being schooled a bit.
My question for you is - what is a potential life? And when does a potential life transition into an actual life? So far I have found that position very hard to defend, as there is not one discrete moment during pregnancy when change drastically occurs and suddenly potential life is human life. 24 weeks is touted as “human viability”. However, at 22 weeks, 10% of fetuses can survive birth with no permanent sequelae. Another 40% can survive with long- term complications or developmental issues or medical conditions. Viability is not the hard line we make it out to be, and the only hard line that exists in all of pregnancy is conception.
For me, this is hard if not impossible to say. When does someone become an adult? When they are 18? Does that mean that 1 second before they are fundamentally different? No, it’s a hard grey area. That does not mean that children never become adults. It just means it’s hard to put an age on it. I understand that it is hard to make laws around that, which is obviously an issue with abortion, however, I do know that an unborn fetus, is not the same as a fully developed adult. Just because the fetus has the possibility of becoming a human, it is not at the point in time when it is being terminated, which is what differentiates abortion from murder.
My question to you- why is it not human? I think at least elsewhere in this thread I have stated arguments for why life begins at conception. Also, how can you say a life is not a life at termination, when termination happens go to 28 weeks in several states in the United States, which is vastly different than a 2 week medication induced abortion.
It’s not that’s it’s not a life, it’s that that life is not equivalent of a fully developed humans life. Which is is why I compared it to an animal
So I think we are in agreement here. A fetus is not equal to an adult human. A two year old is not equal to a 50 year old. At least, in terms of functioning, capabilities, etc.  So my question becomes, when do we draw the line? Why does development or age have an impact on the ethical permissibility of terminating a life? I posit that a human organism, since conception, has an inviolable dignity and life. And that life IS equal to an adult human.  life and dignity and humanity are not dependent on age, development, abilities, etc. otherwise killing someone in a coma, or a two year old, or someone with Down syndrome would be ethically permissible. Which I believe it is not.
So you support abortion up until birth for any reason?
Well, which is it? Is your right to live based on having "complex emotions" (whatever those are) or just being born? Those aren't the same thing.
Ones a human and the other is an animal. Let's get the human rights in order first, then we can focus all of our attention on the animals.
It was a figure of speech
You literally said it's not human. How is that a figure of speech?

Especially when all evidence points to it being 100% human. And by 'evidence' I mean facts, and by 'points to' to, I mean it is. It is objectively incorrect to say it is not a human.
More than 50% of people who get abortions are already using some form of birth control which failed, and abortions are so expensive, so folks aren't really using it for birth control because they're already on birth control. For me, the only other option that exists out there (if the option of abortion isn't on the table) is forcing someone who doesn't want to be pregnant into months of a stressful painful situation they simply don't want to be in. And sure, in theory the person can choose adoption, but pregnancy especially if unwanted will cause stress, possibly malnutrition and substance use if the person is feeling horrible about a forced pregnancy, etc for the baby which is just going to really negatively affect its development. If a person doesn't want to be pregnant, forcing them into that situation isn't going to be good for anyone
What I would reply to is your statement of force. Not allowing an abortion is forcing a woman to be pregnant. That is not the case. That person chose to engage in sexual intercourse usually of her own will (I will not get into the discussion of rape, as that is less than 1 percent of total abortions in the US. If you want to pursue that discussion, then you would submit yourself to saying 99% of abortions should not be allowed, which I would consider a major pro-life victory). Engaging in sexual intercourse is consent to the possibility of pregnancy. The purpose of sex, in any species, is to reproduce. Therefore, it is in the natural order of science and of life that sex results in pregnancy. We should be more suprised when it does not, quite honestly. saying a woman did not consent to be pregnant when having sex is like saying you put a glass of water in the freezer, and did not consent to the water freezing. The purpose of the freezer is to freeze. The purpose of sex is to reproduce. I don't see anyway to spin an argument that the purpose of sex is to reproduce. Those who are more scientifically inclined will see the truth of that in evolution. Those more religiously inclined, particularly Catholics, already see the truth in that, as they see it as the divine purpose for an act which He enabled.
Most definitely did not consent to pregnancy because, like I said, the majority are already on birth control.
Most are on birth control yes. However, do you have comment to the purpose of sexual intercourse? Also, birth control is not 100% effective. So essentially by having intercourse, you are consenting to the possibility of pregnancy. I would also state that because your planned intervention has failed, which is a known risk of using birth control, does not give you the right to end the life of a human being.
So you're saying, by default, women have no control over their bodies when a pregnancy happens, and every time an egg is fertilized in her, whether she consented to pregnancy or not and whether she's able to financially or emotionally or physically deal with it or not, she HAS to go through with the pregnancy? no thanks. It's a no-win situation for women ANYWHERE. used birth control but it failed? too bad, you're forced into a pregnancy you neither wanted to nor planned. didnt use birth control? you're irresponsible, this forced pregnancy is your punishment. raped and got pregnant? too bad, you're forced into a pregnancy raped into you because to pursue an abortion would be "killing" something. which obviously is and extremely skewed and embellished way to describe a pregnancy, and personal legal medical decisions made between patients and doctors. and who has the right to describe what the PURPOSE of anything is? lol. some people do it for fun. some people are forced into it. some people do it to have kids. some people do it with people theyre married to. some people dont do it with people theyre married to. who is to say what a human behavior/social/sexual interaction is for? it's to fulfill the needs of the person who is performing that action. don't understand why you're trying to label every act that you're not a part of.
“So you're saying, by default, women have no control over their bodies when a pregnancy happens, and every time an egg is fertilized in her, whether she consented to pregnancy or not and whether she's able to financially or emotionally or physically deal with it or not, she HAS to go through with the pregnancy? no thanks“ Can you elaborate or state explicitly what you mean or dislike about this paragraph? I can certainly infer things like “I believe women should not have to carry pregnancies to term” etc but I don’t want to put words in your mouth. I would also counter - just because pregnancy creates a difficult circumstance, does that now give us the moral go-ahead to terminate the pregnancy? I find that often the right thing to do is very difficult, but that doesn’t mean it’s not the right thing to do. I absolutely acknowledge that pregnancy is difficult and overwhelming (not to mention child rearing, but I will leave this as a separate issue, as a mother can carry a pregnancy to term and opt for adoption). However, I don’t believe that finding the quickest way to eliminate that difficulty is the right thing to do, for many of the reasons I have stated elsewhere in this thread. Can we not instead eliminate the difficulty by helping mothers with things like child care, housing assistance, medical care and insurance?
Why do people always think pregnancy is a breeze and a walk in the park? Even if it's wanted, it can be financial, emotional, and physical hell. I don't even want to imagine what it'd be like if it was unwanted. Like, ultrasounds and prenatal care and vitamins and check-ups and maternity clothes and a crib and a hospital stay and paying for the actual delivery of the baby is only gonna rack up in the tens of thousands, just to BEGIN on the financial hardships of pregnancy. Pregnancies, EVEN if they're wanted and consented to, are so stressful on the mind with raging hormones and painful pregnancy symptoms and the danger of preeclampsia, gestational diabetes, anemia, depression, if it's unwanted that's even more stress and very traumatic, and the social fear and embarrassment of having it be visible in the later months if it's unwanted. pregnancy is NOT easy. and if it's unwanted on top of that, it's even more scary and painful and stressful. Do I even have to describe the sheer pain of childbirth and labor? no, of course not. everyone knows the screams and blood and pain associated with childbirth. Pregnancy is a huge decision and takes a huge emotional, physical, and financial toll and no one should be forced into it. Abortion isn't to get rid of unwanted parenting (that's what adoption is for). Abortion is to terminate an unwanted pregnancy. All the money for childcare and housing assistance doesnt matter if the pregnancy is unwanted. Also, who said abortion is the "quickest way to eliminate a difficulty"? There's nothing quick or easy about abortion. It's expensive, it's difficult to obtain, it's a difficult medical decision to make. Again, if you've never been in the position to get an abortion, don't describe it in ways that aren't accurate, like "quick"
I apologize, I meant quick in “quicker than nine months”. I also never stated that pregnancy is easy. It is far, far from it. All of your points about the difficulties of pregnancy and labor are extremely accurate. We are in complete agreement. What we are disagreeing on is the moral ramifications of terminating a pregnancy. My position is even in the face of how difficult pregnancy is, how much pain it causes, the complications that can arise, that abortion is immoral. It is the ending of a human life. If you would like to discuss why I believe that, I would be happy to. I can’t engage you further on your points above, because we are in agreement.
I believe it's morally just for a woman to terminate a pregnancy she doesn't want you have. You think the opposite. Why does your opinion trump mine and why should your opinion have any influence on my personal medical decisions?
We can have differences of opinion, but if I truly believe my opinion is right, I have a moral obligation to advocate for life. if you truly believed that fetuses were human beings with dignity and worth, then you would do anything in your power to stop their death. As someone who does believe that, I find it my duty to try and stop the deaths of innocents, which I believe abortion is.

Not the person you're asking but I think the simple answer is because your opinion has to do with killing, and ours has to do with saving. One of those is right. Also you seem very concerned with whether this person has experienced a pregnancy. Would you actually listen to someone who has? Hi! I got pregnant at 17 years old! I was raised in a household that said abortion was fine. I realized that was crazy and abortion would be killing my son. I had a super hard pregnancy, got preeclampsia, was pretty miserable. But I'm sorry to say, discomfort is never a reason to kill someone else. That's just nuts. My mother in law makes me extremely stressed out, and for a few years basically enslaved me. Can I just kill her? I'd love to but no, I can't. Is having to refrain from killing her somehow infringing on my right to choose? No because some things we don't get to choose. I can't choose to kill an infant that's bugging me, I can't choose to rob a bank. I don't go around saying theft should be legal and if it's not, you're forcing me to stay poor. A woman has every say what happens to her body, but she cannot have a say in what happens to another persons body. That's what bodily autonomy is all about. Your bodily autonomy ends where another body begins. Killing is never ok. Doesn't matter the circumstances.

I’m trying to philosophize and describe the world around us, as is applicable in all situations of a certain type. I never claimed to know why people have sex - I agree with all of the statements you have said. I believe in the philosophical position that reality is knowable, that science and the nature of things are logical and discoverable. And from such a position I posit what the nature of things really is. I certainly know and believe there are a lot of reasons people behave in a certain way. People have sex for many reasons. I just believe that humans don’t do things for no reason, or on a whim. And certainly something as imperative to human existence as reproduction and sexual intercourse has a reason behind it, as an act. Not in this circumstance, or that one, but all of them. The truth or overarching logic behind why something is. I can understand your frustration with women having to be pregnant when they don’t desire to. I have great compassion for that. Especially in instances of rape or invest (which are less than 1 percent of all abortions in the US, just for clarity). However, because something is burdensome, or difficult, or uncomfortable doesn’t mean that the act of eliminating it is morally just. You put in quotes “killing” something. You also said that was a skewed and embellished way to describe abortion. Would you describe what abortion is, and your arguments for such?
Philosphize? How about humanize? Have you ever been in this situation? Do you know how difficult it is to make such a personal decision, with the guidance of loved ones and the expertise of medical experts? you can "posit" all you want, but dont take your armchair philosopher opinions and force it onto other people, taking away the autonomy they have over their health, bodies, and families. Of course people don't do things for no reason or on a whim, people make decisions based on their needs at the time. What's wrong is to take a one-size-fits all approach to not just why people have sex but also why people decide to choose abortion or not. Plain and simple, abortion is a legal medical procedure that people only chose when they need to, not because it's fun or funny or subversive or convenient or cheap. Abortions are expensive, just like any other procedure, and folks who choose this medical procedure deserve the privacy to make this choice with their doctors and families, just like any other medical legal procedure. If you haven't been in the position to need an abortion, then it's neither necessary nor helpful to offer your input.
I will remind you that it is my position to offer commentary. This is the prolife sub. I am more than free to express my opinions, as you are yours. Also, I wasn’t saying any individual makes decisions on a whim. More of from a species level here. I feel like we are missing the mark with each other on discussing that particular sub topic. I would say I can philosophize and humanize. I can feel badly for and care for and want to help pregnant woman 100%. That doesn’t mean I have to believe the way to help them is to promote abortions. There are many, many other ways to help women in unplanned pregnancies. I can’t say for specific people, but the Guttmacher institute (a prochoice organization) has done multiple studies on the reasons women have abortions, through direct patient surveys. The chart I am linking is from 2005. A recent study was published in 2017 with similar data, but doesn’t have a chart laid out in a similar way. The majority of the reasons on the chart can be address with solutions other than abortion.  Social support. Cultural change to accept pregnant women, especially those who are unmarried. Housing, childcare, education, WIC and other nutrition programs, etc. https://www.guttmacher.org/sites/default/files/pdfs/tables/370305/3711005t2.pdf Also, each decision a woman makes is private, with her partner perhaps and with her doctor. However, just because a decision is made in private does not mean we cannot make social commentary on the morality of that act. It may be legal in the US, but I would deflect and say that legality is not always a great reflection of morality. Take for instance the restrictive and punitive drug control laws in the United States. A great many people believe private drug use is moral, especially drugs like cannabis which may have a number of medicinal uses. However, many of those drugs are illegal - not necessarily immoral. I’m not suggesting women choose abortion because it’s fun or because it’s a joke. I would never suggest that. I understand this is a deeply personal decision, and a crisis pregnancy can turn someone’s world upside down.
The thing is, it doesn't matter if you don't think abortions help them. If a woman thinks an abortion will help her, that's all she needs to be able to obtain one. I'm ALL for wic programs and childcare for people who want pregnancies and need help. But if someone doesn't want to be pregnant, it's no one's position to force them into it. For the most part, it seems we agree on a lot of things; assistance for people who want to be pregnant, the fact that it's a deeply personal decision, and the fact that pregnant people are currently mistreated by society. We both agree on that. However, I just cannot agree with forcing someone into such a painful and stressful situation if they don't want to be.
I again appeal to the idea of “force”. By not desiring women t have abortions, I am not the arbitrator of force. Usually, it was a consensual sexual act which resulted in pregnancy. In cases when it was not, the rapist was the arbiter of force. By preventing pregnant women from killing an innicent life, I am not the one forcing her to be pregnant. I can understand perhaps the only thing or person standing in between a pregnant woman getting an abortion is a prolife person or prolife set of laws. That is difficult to reconcile with the compassion that I feel for women in difficult and sometimes unwanted pregnancies. My moral stance boils down to, human life is sacrosanct and has an intrinsic dignity, which in a hierarchical list, trumps pretty much all else. That doesn’t mean I want women to suffer, or that I desire pregnancies to be born of rape. I just truly believe that there is no justified killing of a human being. I have a consistent life ethic, which means I am against euthanasia, the death penalty, and most instances of war (I won’t get into the just war theory or self defense). I also support rights for immigrants, the homeless, the elderly, children, single mothers, the impoverished, the mentally ill, etc. Abortion is just one snapshot of this issue, but it fits under the lens of my morality and how I view the world.

"Consent" doesn't matter. Adults owe children care whether they consented to care or not in desperate situations where the child will die. It doesn't matter if it causes the adult the stress or discomfort or pain associated with typical pregnancy.
Yeah it does, I don't consent to my body creating a human being so I will stop that process because it was raped into me.
It doesn't matter. "I don't consent to this child left at my door step so I will not care for it and let it die out there." Consent doesn't matter. We can blame you for negligent homicide either way.
Not caring for a child that is already there is not the same as not consenting to continuing a pregnancy from rape.
The child is already there in rape too. To say there is no child is to beg the question or change the argument from bodily autonomy to the moral status of the embryo.
I'm not looking to philosophize on morals or logic or arguments. I'm just here to inform you that this was my experience, I lived it, I understand the nuances and complexity of it, and forcing someone to go through an unwanted pregnancy is traumatizing, it's tormenting to have to endure, and no one should be forced into it.
Evolution doesn't endow things with purpose.  Sex exists because reproduction makes more of us.  Sex became enjoyable partly because that motivated us to reproduce more and partly to encourage social bonds. However, the purpose of the sex we're having now is whatever we make it. I'm not trying to change your mind here; it seems that you're likely a Catholic and have your own religious reasons to think that sex has a specific proscribed purpose.  However, you spoke on behalf of those "who are more scientifically inclined" and I wanted to set that straight.
I am Catholic but also scientific. I understand that we may not see eye to eye on certain things. However, I ask you - why does the act of sex exist? I would also disgree that the purpose of sex we're having now is "what we make of it". I believe in absolute truths. It's a little wishy washy to just be tolerant of everything or be relativist, and say "x is true for me and y is true for you." If you truly believe something, especially something you believe to have moral weight, than you really should not necessarily be tolerant of contrary positions. And by that, I don't mean open hostility. I mean engaging in discourse with the opposite side in a productive fashion. Back to your first statement. As you said "sex exists because reproduction makes more of us." Isn't that what I was saying - with sex is to make more of us? It seems to me like we are trying to outsmart biology.
I'm saying sex exists because reproduction makes more of us.  You're saying the purpose of sex is to make more of us.  It's part of the dual meaning of "why" in English -- it means both "to what end" and "from what cause". What I'm saying is that just because sex exists as a byproduct of the reproduction-focused gears of evolution doesn't give any ethical weight towards using it for other purposes. Our shoulders are exquisitely evolved for throwing things accurately at long distances.  That's because we used thrown objects to hunt.  It isn't immoral that I throw things (frisbees, footballs, car keys) exclusively in non-hunting contexts. I'm not saying that we have different truths, I'm saying that sex has no overarching purpose.  People have it for different purposes.  Sometimes people have it for pleasure, sometimes people have it to reproduce, sometimes people have it for an emotional connection.  Probably most of the time it's a mix of these. What do you think the purpose of sex is for people who are infertile? When you say "sex," do you exclusively mean penis-in-vagina sex?  What do you think the purpose of oral sex is?
Your objection was a non sequitur because /u/littlegint's main point does not depend on a natural law ethic at all. It's evident that sex results in reproduction. We can hold people responsible for the result of consensual sex. None of these, to my mind obvious points, relies on any strictly natural law understanding sex. I guess the "scientifically inclined" people need to do a little reading in ethics.
No, it wasn't a non sequitur, it just wasn't a reply to their main point.  It was a reply to that particular phrasing and idea.  I made that clear. And if that had been all that littlegint had said, yeah, my points wouldn't make sense.  I probably would have said different things, or maybe not commented at all. Why did you choose to try to belittle me?  Did it make you happier?  Did it make the world better?
Thank you
I don't think the stress and pain are relevant because it's pretty obvious that if having to take care of a recently born infant left on your doorstep caused you, for whatever reason, to feel the pain and discomfort associated with pregnancy and child birth people would still blame you for letting the child die so you didn't have to endure that. They would blame you for negligent homicide because the child needed care and you failed to provide it. That indicates to me that there's nothing relevant here about the extent of pain, stress, or discomfort which esculpates the woman from blame for allowing the child to die on the doorstep. Likewise for pregnancy and abortion. We can and should blame women who directly kill or allow to die the child they owe care.
I don't owe care to anyone, speaking specifically for my case of pregnancy through rape.
That's just an assertion. I made an argument that you do owe the child care even in rape. Sorry if that makes you really mad but obligations are obligations no matter how much you dislike it.
my obligation? how in the world is that my obligation?
Yep, one day abortion is banned and the next they’re rounding up fertile women and handing them off as sex slaves to sterile couples as well as cutting off their hands for trying to read books.I wonder if these people listen to themselves. They honestly think that logically follows. They believe something similar is not far in America’s future because pro-life people are winning some battles.I enjoyed THMT as a work of fiction, but it’s the taking women as slaves, raping, and mutilating them that disturbed me, not making it illegal to murder unborn children.They’re acting hysterical. They really think abortion belongs on that list of essential things denied to women in that dystopian future.
TBH it sounds more like an Islamic/Sharia country. Men are allowed to marry up to four wives and women often cannot say no. (But it wouldn't be PC to write about that, of course.)
The author actually based the original book off the Iranian Revolution.
And did so to try to criticize the Reagan government, it's dystopia did not come, and now the author is projecting her insanity onto Mike Pence.
I absolutely hate the handmaids tale. I was thinking to myself how could you make a prolife version? How could you make up a dystopian future that is a metaphor for how bad abortion is? Then I realised that anything you come up with would underplay it, because we ARE in the dystopian future. Baby killing is legalised and if you speak out you are seen as an evil bigot. The UN says Ireland's anti-abortion laws are a violation of human rights. Killing the unborn is seen as liberal and progressive and people proudly shout their abortion.
The Giver maybe?  It’s not really the main focus but people’s entire careers are devoted to killing babies and old people and they don’t even realize what they’re doing.
Logan's Run?
The Unwind book series is a group of YA novels focusing on a dystopian future in the aftermath of a civil war between pro-lifers and abortionists. The King-Solomonesque solution is to outlaw abortion but open up a window in which adolescents can legally be euthanized by parents to harvest their organs.
You don’t need a theoretical dystopian future when you already have dystopian pasts of dehumanizing people like the holocaust or American slavery
What Happened to Monday is an amazing movie. I think it’s on Netflix.
"Children of Men" has a similar premise to The Handmaids Tale but isn't promoting abortion. I think it is an interesting premise, a end of humanity situation caused by infertility and how society reacts. It's a very good movie. Don't watch the trailer though.

Sadly too many pro-deathers are proud to say it doesn't.
I'm not sure what the relevance of "intrinsic" is here. Pleasure has intrinsic value, but that doesn't mean I'm not willing to give it up for something else of intrinsic value, like, freedom, justice, truth, etc. By 'intrinsic,' does he mean "pricelessness," or something like "infinite value"? If this is what he means, does that imply that I commit murder if I kill my rapist? Both of our lives may have "intrinsic value," but isn't that irrelevant when I'm being raped?
He could've made the argument a little more clear with person-hood vs. human life.

Very good! Women need to know that there are always other options, despite what Planned Parenthood tells them.

I’m against even early abortion unless it’s for a very good reason (ectopic pregnancy or something) but an abortion that damn late is completely inexcusable and anyone arguing for it should be more ashamed of themselves than usual.
It used to be even worse (original 1967 Abortion Act had the limit at 28 weeks).

Article treats it as if this were a bad thing...
Here's how you can help us unseat Pro Abortion Sarah Davis!: https://secure.anedot.com/susannaforstaterep/donate
And she's won another term...



Not suprising, r/abortion is literally a "support" thread that caters to the emotionally fragile crowd that justs want "Hugs!!❤️!" and doesn't want to justify their horrible decisions or debate them.  (I guess it's pretty difficult knowing you destroyed someone before they were born so talking about the morally is taboo  unless of course you are 100% pro-infanticide). What irritates me is r/TwoXChromosomes because that is supposed to be an open forum but the mods there are totally pro-murder. Here's my banned message!
Oh my god that's absolutely horrible!
Yup that's why r/TwoXChromosomes is by far the worst sub on Reddit. Women can't even speak our minds if it's not what they want to hear.
I am banned from that sub without even writing there.
Are you subscribed to T_D? They have auto mass-banned anyone who subscribes to it or some other subs.
I am banned from that sub without even writing there.
every day I become more and more confused as to how they have not discovered me yet
Happened to me long, long ago. Oh well...
/r/abortion is explicitly not a debate sub.  Your comments all clearly broke our rules, which are posted in the sidebar.  I don't want to repeat your comments here, but I do not think anybody would consider them to constitute respectful debate so much as trolling. So... we have a subreddit that has a purpose and you went there and broke our rules and we banned you, and now you seem to be acting as though this is surprising...? Good news, though! There is a subreddit for people who want to debate abortion. /r/Abortiondebate/ People keep complaining that there isn't a space to debate abortion.  Well, that's exactly what this space is for.  Go ahead and make a post there with the debate that you want to have.
I suspected this was the case.
Right? You can't go into another sub, break the rules, and expect to not be banned.
The 2nd link isn't working.
It's a sub, but there's no posts
Oh. Thanks!
Yeah I really love your 6-subscriber debate forum.
All subs gotta start somewhere.
It’s true: most people don’t actually want to debate abortion. Most of the time it’s somebody with a chip on their shoulder on one of these subreddits. So what does it say when there’s a place for the post you want to make, and nobody’s there?
It says, unfortunately, that people aren't open to discussion whatsoever. It reflects the ever-decreasing sad state of politics in the US at least.
Well, great news!  There are people there now.  Go join them!  Spread the good news!
Hear ye, hear ye, DAE a group of cells may actually be an organism and a person? Imagine I'm ringing an old-timey bell to that and bam, now we're cooking with a grease fire that will inevitably spread and burn down my neighborhood.
I don't understand your comment, but I kind of like it.
Well I kind of like you so we may have something here.
Watch out, or we might recognize our respective humanities instead of reflexively assuming the other to be evil.
Is this the part where I romantically try to take out your eyes or does that come later in our argument of romance?

I suspected this was the case.
No you should definitely repeat the comments I made. So everyone can see how “rude and disrespectful” I was.
You broke the rules of the sub. Even if you weren't rude and disrespectful you still broke the rules which can warrant a ban. I don't know why you're salty over this
You made a dead baby joke. Even if you hadn't broken the rules of the sub (which you did), you were extremely rude and disrespectful.
So making “dead baby” jokes is bad but killing babies isn’t?
Is your argument "they're worse than me so I can be a dick"?
Fighting murder is not dickery
Making dead baby jokes isn't fighting murder. And one can fight murder and be a dick, they're not mutually exclusive. If your only criteria for what is appropriate is based on the wrongdoings of your opponent, that's not a great standard to hold yourself to.
I just got banned from r/prochoice. Still am not sure why. Edit: This ban has been repealed, fortunately.
Here's who you need to vote AGAINST in 2018:Florida - Bill NelsonMichigan - Debbie StabenowMinnesota - Amy Klobuchar & Tina SmithMissouri - Claire McCaskillMontana - Jon TesterNorth Dakota - Heidi HeitkampOhio - Sherrod BrownVirginia - Tim KaineWisconsin - Tammy BaldwinHonorary mentionsIndiana - Joe Donnelly (67%)Pennsylvania - Bob Casey Jr (75%)West Virginia - Joe Manchin (57%)
And remember Pennsylvanians when you vote out Bob Casey also vote the governor and attorney general out!
Their views of substantive due process loom larger than simply abortion, like the right to live with your family, et al

Ridiculous. Every day Free Speech dies a little more. How many other student groups are prevented from protesting? Are they also going to outlaw BLM protesters just because some protesters get violent?
It's a lot easier to outlaw the protesters who won't riot.

Illegal immigrants tend to be a very vulnerable and impressionable demographic. Shame on these abortion activists for taking advantage of them.

Do you want abortion tourism? Because that's how you get abortion tourism.

This article could be summarized, I think, as "non-whiteness is a rough approximation of a country's religiosity." Replace "% white" with "% not following an Abrahamic religion" and I bet the lines would work a lot better.
Thailand, Bhutan, Sri Lanka, Laos, and Myanmar don't follow Abrahamic religion and have laws against elective abortion.
I said “a lot better,” not “perfectly.”
This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.

It is very common the use of arguments like "women have less rights than <insert anything here>". The most famous is "women VS guns".Among pro-violent-choice circles, there is a common argument that it is legally prohibited to forcibly take organs even from corpses, but "those wretched pro-birthers want to force the women to host a parasite inside them" (full colors).About that "corpses have more rights than women" thing, I was thinking about it a couple of weeks ago in an unusual scenario.An 8-month pregnant mother was shot in the head. (It occurred a long time ago, maybe 5 years, I'm not sure.) As a consequence, she died.But she was maintained in life support for a while, until the appopriate time for a C-section. (EDIT: if relevant, it was an expected baby for all the family.)I think it is a clear case of a "dead body being used as an incubator", and no one would say it is "intrinsically evil".Is it a good argument? What do you think?
I think the issue with this is that it's incredibly common for pro-choicers to insist that it's wrong to keep a brain-dead body on life support to save the fetus.
Is it? I'd imagine most would be in favor of keeping the woman alive until birth, especially if the woman wanted the child. I think if the question was worded a little more neutrally it would be interesting to ask one of the pro-choice subreddits and see what they said rather than speculate.
There was a case about a year or two ago, can't remember, where the mother had an aneurysm or something (I would look up the specifics if I wasn't lazy) and the husband fought hard  to have her taken off life support even though she was pregnant and they could have saved the baby if she had stayed on for a bit. I couldn't comprehend why someone would fight that hard, needlessly end the life of their own child, just because they are uncomfortable with their wife being on a ventilator? I'm still convinced he just didn't want to have to worry about a baby if he didn't have his wife taking care of it, weak bastard. But there are also cases where they do keep the woman on. I guess it's the husbands choice so long as their wife is unconscious, but he has no say otherwise.
The case was that of Marlise Muñoz, a woman declared legally dead but kept on life support. She had previously expressed that she did not wish to be kept on life support and the husband wanted to honor her wishes. Midway through the court battle it was revealed that the fetus was likely non-viable due to oxygen deprivation. If relevant, the father already had one child with her. (putting this out there in case anyone wants to look it up further).
It's not speculation. That sort of thing has happened multiple times in the past, and every time the comments are full of pro-choicers outraged that they'd keep the mother's body on life support to save the baby.
Can someone explain the “women have less rights than a corpse” argument, I don’t understand
The “less rights than a corpse” rhetoric is from a viral Tumblr post which I’ll copy-and-paste here:
Thank you for explaining. Too bad they can’t understand that it’s not their body autonomy they are arguing for. It is quite literally another body/person.
That's a really easy argument to turn around on them. You need to give permission to have organs removed. However, unless your life is in immediate danger, no sane, licensed doctor will remove a single one of your organs. You can't just say, "I don't want my left kidney anymore," or even, "Take out my spleen. It's getting in the way of my happiness."
But it wouldn't be illegal either though. I don't see how that turns anything around. People generally don't get their organs removed on a whim, but we don't make laws that prohibit them from doing it.
We actually do, in the one case that was common enough to merit it. http://healthcare.findlaw.com/patient-rights/can-i-sell-an-organ.html
That's more to protect people from being coerced to sell organs, or rather to stop people from being able to purchase organs, similar to how you cannot purchase a baby.
Wrong again. If the law were about coercion, it would have been written that way, but coercion has nothing to do with it. Besides, are you honestly going to tell me women are never coerced into having an abortion? I guess I was right, but for the wrong reason. We should outlaw abortions so women can't be coerced into having them against their will. And you, in fact, can purchase a baby. It's very common in our modern world. We call the practice surrogacy.

Snopes says it's fake: https://www.snopes.com/politics/medical/pepsi.asp They have a number of sources supporting their conclusion and you are spreading false information. There are enough horrible things happening to the unborn as it is, you don't have to make up new ones. This garbage belongs on the donald. Or better yet nowhere.
Snopes is laughable. This garbage belongs on /r/politics.


Yep. Millions and millions of babies. (More than) half of them female.
Everyone likes to forget that the "War on Women" is mainly waged in the womb.
If you let your opponent choose your language, you've already lost.  "Systemic violence" is an oxymoron and we should challenge its use. This is a way of radicalizing language such that it automatically villifies everyone who doesn't agree with you.  Somehow only the crimes these folks are opposed to can be said to advance "system violence".
Their arms much hurt from how much they're stretching.
Sadly, this isn't new... "While the committee’s condemnation of Northern Ireland made news headlines, little in the report is actually new. It has repeatedly denounced countries which prohibit abortion even though the Universal Declaration of Human Rights recognises that children require “special safeguards and care..." So why has a UN human rights committee become a leading voice in a campaign to liberalise abortion laws across the globe? For decades the international abortion lobby has been demanding the re-interpretation of human rights treaties to recognise a right to abortion. A covert campaign to achieve this was revealed in 2003 when a strategy document from the New York-based Centre for Reproductive Rights (CRR) was leaked to US Congressman Christopher Smith..." https://www.spuc.org.uk/news/blog/2018/february/abortion-not-northern-irelands-prolife-laws-is-the-real-violence-against-women Also: "The integrity of the UN human rights apparatus has also been damaged by its silence on forced sterilisations and abortions in China, as well as the torture and imprisonment of women for their religious or political beliefs. These are just some of the atrocities faced by Chinese women which the CEDAW committee ignores."
Thanks, this is very useful. I will update the post to cite your link.
The U.N. does it's utmost to support evil in all it's forms. Please Mr. President, withdraw from this organization that does everything it can to destroy families, moral values, and freedom.
Except the women inside another women...
Disgusting, good thing the UN can’t do anything except complain
Not letting parents throttle their toddlers is "violence against parents."
They cheapen real violence against women with this bullshit.


I love the way the headline is awkwardly phrased, as if getting an abortion will be mandatory for all women in college. I'm sure PP would love that though, to help with their falling bottom line.
I thought the same thing. Had to go back and reread it.


A similar thing happened in Ireland. There were posters advertising a talk by a woman, saying how she was conceived in rape and how it is wrong that pro-choicer say that it would have been fine to abort her. Two scumbags took down all the poster. A pro-abortion political party,called "People before profit" praised them. Disgusting. Poster:https://cdn-01.independent.ie/incoming/article36177455.ece/da7d0/AUTOCROP/h342/Posters%202.jpg Twats:http://fe250c592f555a04fb6d-1c8a1818404885b757e3f6f3fd384de1.r45.cf2.rackcdn.com/uploaded/i/0e6607051_1506780396_image017.jpg
Is the guy on the left a chubby middle schooler? Honestly can’t tell.
People before Profit, eh?
And they're apparently against intimidating and shaming women. Except for women who disagree with them, of course!
I mean if you’re gonna vandalize a billboard, at least put in the effort... “Love the Wolf”? What’s that even supposed to mean? These guys are as half assed about their vandalism as they are about critically considering the moral implications of abortion.

Might be a bit hyperbolic in the title, but essentially, yea. I was raised pro-choice and have lived among liberals and have only recently been really deeply contemplating the issue, and I'm finding I'm more drawn to the position than I thought I would be.But one thing that keeps lingering above my head about this, is how could I justify not stopping as many abortions as possible by whatever means necessary if what you say is true? Like I said I've lived among liberals my whole life, and they'd say things like "Germans that didn't fight the nazis were just as bad as nazis", and just generally that violence to resist oppression and genocide is good. But if abortion is murder, then we're living in the worst genocide in history. How could I justify not using violence to fight it?(disclaimer: I'm not planning anything violent, and not even a committed pro-lifer. Just a philosophical hypothetical)
Because ultimately, would blowing up abortion clinics help or hinder the cause? Do we want to live in a world where abortion isn't practiced because it's morally wrong, or one where abortion isn't practiced because a nutter will bomb your clinic if you do? Look at it this way, do you think the Taliban forcing women out of their jobs in occupied areas and into oppressive, mandatory clothing, ultimately made those women like their new status quo and want to continue it?
Surely it would save lives, even if killing some "innocent" people in the process. We enforce laws through fear, fear of prison, fear of becoming a pariah, fear of death. And if the state is willingly allowing millions of truly innocent to suffer, shouldn't one act?
Or it would mount millions more to the pro-choice cause, they'd rebuild the clinic, staff it with all the resources that would pour in due to sympathy, pro-lifers would appear 100x more insane with more people not willing to even engage in a discussion about abortion, and in 20 years hundreds of thousands of more children would die because we lost the societal battle in our quest to kill 1 abortionist.
Violence is never the answer. I oppose blowing up clinics for the same reason I oppose abortion, war, the death penalty etc: intentionally killing another human being is always wrong. Oppose by changing the culture and changing the law and by helping women in situations that tend to lead to abortion.
Violence is sometimes the answer. If abortion were illegal, how do you think that ban would be enforced? Would the government just ask abortionists nicely to stop killing babies? Or would they send the cops in to arrest them? The problem isn't that violence isn't the answer; the problem is that the abortion is so widespread that only the government could hope to supply enough violence to actually make a difference.
I just don't think that's true. If someone was holding a gun to my brother, going to kill him, I would not hesitate to shoot him if I had the chance to save my brother. We say that people should have violently resisted Nazis, the Khmer Rouge, and other genocidal regimes because that's the only way to stop the killing. If abortion is murder, than surely violently disrupting the factory-line murder of millions is an imperative?
But if someone is hiring a hitman to kill your brother, and there are 5,300 government-sponsored hitmen in your city, it'd be more effective to campaign to have them shut down than it would be to try to hunt them all down one at a time.
I get your train of thought but it's not just illegal, it is morally wrong. A good cannot be achieved with a wrong. We can't end abortion by killing all the abortionists. Abortion clinics aren't forcing women inside and killing their children, they are going there of their own free will. Unfortunately there is no easy way to end this atrocity. We just have to keep speaking up, try to encourage pro-life legislation, and hope people eventually start to get that it's wrong. People keep saying we're going to end abortion in our lifetime. I don't think that's going to happen. I'm probably not going to live to see a pro-life culture. Still going to try though.
I know using Hitler is cliche and played out. But could you not say that this is like saying "We can't end the holocaust by killing all the nazis"? Sure it might not be that no jew would ever be murdered for his religion again, but it would sure as heck help.
Indiscriminately killing Nazis in Nazi germany would have got you nowhere. You’d be better off collaborating with the allies or secretly helping Jews escape or something.
When we used violence to stop the Nazis, though, we were doing that with the full support and aid of the U.S. government. If the United States had been on Germany's side in World War 2, would it have made more sense to campaign for America to join the Allies, or to try to raise your own private militia to go up against the military forces of both Germany and America?
To play devil's advocate, not all the Nazi's supported what Hitler was doing and some even tried to covertly assassinating him on several occasions because they knew how terrible he was.If we really did have a time machine It would probably be better to make sure Germany didn't reach this level of desperation that bread Nazism/Fascism. And maybe try to get Hitler into art school and persue some other profession than politics.
If abortionists started rounding up pregnant women and killing their children, I would hope someone would go in guns blazing to stop them, but as it is right now, women are voluntarily doing this. We can't just kill all the pregnant women to keep them from killing their children. I actually don't think the Hitler thing is played out, and refer to it quite often when making comparisons on the personhood argument, and it's also why I understand where you're coming from. But still, we can't just blow everyone up and hope it stops. Until it's illegal, they will just send us to jail and open a new one. If anything, it will result in exactly 0 fewer abortions.
The front page of this subreddit has a stickied post about how decreasing access to abortions decreases abortions. And don't pretend that violent, armed insurgencies have never changed anything, for they certainly have. To be clear, I would never do something like this if only because I don't have the stomach for it. I'm very conflict-averse, overly empathetic, I'm a vegetarian because I can't stand the thought of torturing animals the way we do. These same principles are leading me towards a more pro-life direction, but purely ethically, I'm having a hard time reconciling the thought of just, living in the world complacent with genocide.
And I get that. But we're not complacent, we are just not willing to kill innocent people. Especially when it won't get us anywhere. The world isn't going to suddenly realize abortion is bad because some clinics and some people are pile of ash. We need the world to see abortion is wrong first and foremost. Also, those statistics are about restricting abortion access by legislation and closing of clinics, not exploded ones.
For the same reason it’s wrong to gather a mob to drive a pedophile out of town.
That's not wrong. If the law does nothing, then shouldn't the people take action?
Vigilantism has many well documented problems.
The same way you justify not going into prisons and killing all the murderers despite being against murder. And not shooting up, say, an event in support of some military action that you oppose. Among other reasons, there's a "don't stoop to their level" component. Even if you could justify violently dealing with abortion centers, you'd have to worry about collateral damage. While I believe that the degree to which such centers provide other services is exaggerated, they do indeed (sometimes) provide non-abortion services, meaning that any violent street "justice" carries a risk of harming those not directly participating in abortion.
But that's the law working, punishing those who commit crimes. When the law fails, what then? Would their services save more lives than the amount of fetuses they abort? I wouldn't think so, these aren't hospitals usually.
Okay, fine. A better analogy would be killing someone who gets off on a technicality. I think you misunderstood the second part. What I meant is that there would be customers of other services, aka innocent bystanders.
Well the tiny militant in my brain would just say "there are always innocent bystanders". Like I mentioned elsewhere, I could never be the one to kill anyone, I just don't have the stomach for it. But still. It's gotta be horrifying to just, do nothing. Or do things but see them have so little effect.
It absolutely is horrifying to do nothing. I spend a fair amount of time racking my brain as to what can be done. The best I've come with so far is to treat it as any other widespread ill - do what I can in my little area, and hope for the best in the wider world.
Just look at what actually happened after people tried that. Did people suddenly realize the error of their ways and ban abortions? No, there was a massive backlash. Pro-choicers doubled down and poured donations into Planned Parenthood, people on the fence were pushed away from the pro-life position, and pro-lifers had to spend weeks denouncing the nutjobs who did it instead of actually advancing the pro-life agenda. In the meanwhile, the women who were going to get abortions at those clinics just went elsewhere. For violence to have any chance of accomplishing anything, there would need to be a massive, widespread supplier of violence such that anyone thinking of opening an abortion clinic would have a high probability of being shut down. The only institution even remotely equipped to pull something like this off would be the U.S. government itself. This pro-life death squad (ironic, much?) you seem to be proposing would basically be a terrorist insurgency on American soil, and that's pretty much a surefire way of getting the actual government to crack down on you. If this is supposed to be successful at all, that would pretty much involve the pro-life movement instigating, fighting, and winning a civil war against the U.S. government. And at that part, why even bother with the clinic bombings? It'd be more efficient just to skip right to overthrowing the government and banning abortion.
Philosophically I can't disagree with it, since violence is acceptable if you're saving some lives, but there are other things to consider. For one, I believe criminals have a right to a trial. I don't really believe in vigilante justice or terrorism. Maybe if there was no opportunity for change, like if prolifers were arrested and our speech was outlawed. We can talk about things and change laws if enough people agree with us, so I don't think things are bad enough to warrant those kinds of actions. Second, I think we should believe in the values that helped create our country. We should use our words to discuss and debate topics, rather than just fight. Free speech and democracy are important values. Third, it won't help in the long run. I think it would actually make us look bad and hinder social change. Our main priority should be changing people's beliefs, so we need to present ourselves in a positive light.
I would say the innocent individuals that would potentially die as a result. The political fallout would simply reinforce the resolve of the pro-choice movement including government support for abortion.
Ive used Hitler a few times in this thread and I apologize. But would you say that "Killing nazis would simply reinforce the resolve of the third reich"?
I'm not going to apply the argument to the Nazis.
okie
Violence is never the answer, it only begets more violence and the circle continues. Beside allot of PP abortion clinics offer services to women who actually want to have the baby so the building would have literal innocents who could be harmed too. Fight abortion the legal way.
I'm a pacifist—I recognize that violence is wrong.


For that to be the case, from what I have heard, a case needs to be presented to the Supreme Court that would force an overturning of Roe v Wade.
Either that or an amendment to the Constitution that protects the right to life for unborn children.
This I would absolutely prefer.
No question about it, that would be the best result.
That would be trivially easy. The instant the Supreme Court appears to be friendly to the pro-life position, some state will pass a law banning abortion, which will then be appealed up to the Supreme Court.
I could see possibly that the state doing execution of any kind is unconstitutional. State executions would then be banned, and the life in prison would become the harshest penalty. Honestly, over time, my view on the death penalty has gotten more anti-death penalty.
Even if Roe got overturned that would just leave it up to the states, and probably more protections for abortion in the liberal states. It would necessarily take an amendment, and those don't tend to happen for controversial things.
Pretty bold, but he gives no real reason for this belief. He basically said it was a gut feeling. I think the best case scenario is that the Supreme Court overturns Roe v. Wade and hands it back to the states. Even then, you're never going to have certain states ban it.
Most states probably will outright ban it. But all the blue states will become Abortion Sanctuary States.
I hope, but probably not.
Whose lifetime?

Cue reddit’s head exploding.
Abstinence Education does not work. The data is pretty clear on this. Comprehensive sexuality education is supported by a broad range of health and education professionals. Over 135 national organizations support comprehensive sex education. These highly respected organizations include the American Academy of Pediatrics, American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, American Medical Association, American Public Health Association, National Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy, National Education Association, National Medical Association, National School Boards Association, and the Society for Adolescent Medicine, among many others. http://www.ncsse.com/index.cfm?pageid=932
You literally can't get pregnant if you don't have sex
Yes... I am aware of this. But teaching Abstinence-only education in schools does not work. The science is very clear on this. The unrealistic, morality-based agenda that abstinence-only programs are attempting to promote runs counter to the life choices of almost all Americans. The present median age of sexual initiation is 17 and the average age of marriage is 25.8 for women and 27.4 for men, meaning that the length of time between sexual onset and marriage is eight to 10 years on average. The gap between sexual onset and marriage has increased across time and premarital sex is an almost universal practice. By age 20, 75 percent of Americans have had sex before marriage; the percentage rises to 95 percent of Americans by age 44. Even among those who abstained from sex until age 20 or older, 81 percent have had premarital sex by age 44. So you have two choices here. You can either be realistic and support comprehensive sex education that has been proven to reduce unwanted pregnancies, or you can live in Lala land and continue promoting something that has failed for decades and consequentially has led to more abortions. Finer L. Trends in premarital sex in the United States, 1954-2003. Public Health Reports, 2007; 23: 73.
Thank you for posting research behind why teaching only abstinence does more harm than good. Teaching sexual education is not popular with much of the population but it certainly is proven to decrease the rate of abortions.
I agree. The only issue is that the Catholic Church, which is a big brunt of the U.S pro-life movement opposes sex ed or contraception.
IIRC Pope Francis made a statement supporting condoms in Africa to reduce HIV transmission.
With all due respect, you don't have the full arguments for SRA.  More teens are abstaining than ever before, significantly more than their parents.  If "comp" sex ed is so effective, why is the STD epidemic getting worse?  California has never accepted title V abstinence ed funding and they are no where near having the lowest teen pregnancy rate (about 30 out of 50), and their STDs are climbing.  http://www.latimes.com/local/california/la-me-ln-std-rates-20170926-story.html   Enter into it the risk behavior/cluster/neuroscience element into the discussion and the choice is clear.  SRA is the superior approach due to teen adolescent behavioral theory.  https://energycommerce.house.gov/news/committee-analysis-highlights-most-effective-strategies-prevent-teenage/
I think we need to look at the broader state and context. Sexual irresponsibility overall has declined. Standard measures include rates of abortion and sexually transmitted infections. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), since 1990, the nation's abortion rate has fallen 41 percent. The syphilis rate has plummeted 74 percent. And the gonorrhea rate has plunged 57 percent. This has nothing to do with Abstinence-Only Funding. A July 2007 “meta-study” published in the British Medical Journal reviewed the most recently available data examining the results of 13 abstinence-only trials including almost 16,000 students. As a result of this meta-study, the researchers concluded that recent declines in the U.S. rate of teen pregnancy are most likely the result of improved use of contraception rather than a decrease in sexual activity. http://bmj.com/cgi/content/full/335/7613/248 It was declining overall as I showed but now has gone up due to politics. While the direct cost of treating STDs in the U.S. is nearly $16 billion annually⁠, more than half of state and local STD programs have been cut, and in 2012 alone, 21 STD clinics closed⁠. https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/news/magazine/public-health-economy-election/ Planned Parenthood did nearly 4.5 million tests for sexually transmitted illnesses (including HIV)⁠, and treatments services, as well as performing about 900,000 cervical and breast cancer screenings in 2013. Yet the GOP Congress and governors have been driven to cut funding for them, depriving millions of care. http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMe1510281? Despite evidence that comprehensive programs had favorable effects on delaying teen sex and increased use of contraceptives and condoms, reducing STDs and pregnancy, the government has wasted over $2 billion on ineffective, abstinence-only programs⁠. Congress added new abstinence-only funding even this summer. https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/posteverything/wp/2017/08/21/abstinence-only-education-doesnt-work-were-still-funding-it/?utm_term=.e772399cdb58 So I wouldn't really bring up STD rates to show your point. California itself is an anomaly. I would like to see more data between which counties actually have a proper sexual education. Not accepting title V funding is not the same as comprehensive sex ed, you are committing a composition fallacy. One lone committee analysis report does nothing to invalidate the massive data that is out there on this issue. In April 2007, a federally funded evaluation of Title V abstinence-only-until-marriage programs was released. The study, conducted by Mathematica Policy Research Inc. on behalf of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, found that abstinence-only-until-marriage programs are ineffective. Of the more than 700 federally funded abstinence-only-until-marriage programs, the evaluation looked at only four programs. These programs were handpicked to show positive results and they still failed. www.mathematica-mpr.com/publications/pdfs/impactabstinence.pdf
"Condom and contraceptive use among adolescents has increased since the 1990s, but many adolescents are inconsistent users: roughly 40 percent of males and nearly half of females reported that they or their partner did not use a condom the last time they had sexual intercourse.4"  https://www.hhs.gov/ash/oah/adolescent-development/reproductive-health-and-teen-pregnancy/contraceptive-use/index.html#_ftn2 The teen pregnancy and abortion rate should have gone down, it never should have been as high as it is, significantly higher than any other developed country in the world. Again, your BMJ study is old.  Abst. programs only started being funded during the Clinton admin, they are newer than CSE.  The latest results are showing SRA (abst. ed) showing promise. A Minority Report: Fundamental Concerns about the CDC Meta-analysis of  Group-based Interventions to Prevent Adolescent Pregnancy, HIV, and Other STIsby Irene Ericksen, M.S. & Danielle Ruedt, M.P.H., Members of the CDC Community Guide Adolescent Sex Behavior Coordination Team External Partners review teamNovember 18, 2009* "There are serious limitations to this meta-analysis study that cause us to take exception to the Recommendation Statements (http://www.thecommunityguide.org/hiv/index.html) issued by the Task Force on Community Preventive Services about the study results.  These limitations lead us to conclude that the statements about the general effectiveness of the comprehensive risk reduction (CRR) strategy are not warranted by the data.  They overstate the likelihood that any single CRR program will be effective at protecting the sexual health of adolescents, especially the school-based programs, which are the focus of the public policy debate about sex education and impact the future health of millions of adolescents across the country.  The CDC recommendations also fail to acknowledge the evidence for the effectiveness of abstinence education (AE) programs at reducing teen sexual activity, and invite conclusions that CRR is a superior approach to AE, which is not supported by the evidence. " https://www.acpeds.org/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/Minority_Report_CDC_Meta-Analysis_11-18-09-1.pdf Yes, you should really read all about that Mathematica study:  "In 2004 Congressman Henry Waxman of California presented a report before Congress critical of the medical accuracy of abstinence education curricula.29 The Mathematica Study was similarly critical of the medical accuracy of abstinence education programs.30 However, in 2007 the U.S .Department of Health and Human Services conducted an extensive review of nine comprehensive sex education curricula using the same methods employed by Congressman Waxman and the Mathematica Study. These comprehensive programs were found to have no better record for medical accuracy. The HHS review also found that the comprehensive programs were hardly comprehensive. The amount of discussion dedicated to “safer sex” exceeded that spent on abstinence by a factor of up to seven. Some of the programs failed to mention abstinence altogether. None of the programs carefully distinguished between reducing and eliminating the risks of sexual activity, and nearly every program failed to mention the emotional consequences of early sexual activity. Although some of the comprehensive programs showed a small effect in reducing “unprotected” sex (7 of 9 programs) and to a lesser extent in delaying sexual debut (2 of 8 programs), the impact did not extend beyond six months.31" https://www.acpeds.org/the-college-speaks/position-statements/sexuality-issues/abstinence-education Your information is all old.  Gonorrhea and syphilis rates are up. https://www.cdc.gov/std/stats16/default.htm
Sure, let's look at the broader picture.  We have, by far, the highest teen pregnancy rate of every nation in the world.  Planned Parenthood supporters will point to decreased abortion and teen pregnancy rates as evidence of their success, but it never should have been that high in the first place. Reported STDs at Unprecedented High in the U.S. https://www.cdc.gov/nchhstp/newsroom/2016/std-surveillance-report-2015-press-release.html More teens abstaining than in last 25 years: (pg. 5)  https://www.cdc.gov/nchhstp/newsroom/2016/std-surveillance-report-2015-press-release.html You should read Weed's report before you cite any more studies claiming CSE is more effective (for example he reveals that the vast majority of the TPP programs did not even measure STDs as an outcome (during a STD epidemic!)  "comprehensive" sex ed programs show more evidence of failure than success? (Also that he found that SRA or abstinence programs showed better results? http://institute-research.com/.../CSEReport-Final_9-13-17... Girls in Planned Parenthood of the Great Northwest's program increased teen pregnancy compared to the alternate program (pg. 4) https://www.hhs.gov/.../grantee-led.../summary-ebps.pdf "Consider,  for  example,  the  widely  cited  Mathematica  report  which  evaluated  four abstinence education  programs measured  outcomes two  and one-half to  five and  one half years  after  the  program’s  end,  with  no  interim  support  or  reinforcement  of  the  message (Trenholm,  et al.,  2007). Not  surprisingly,  none  of the  four  programs  showed  decreased sexual activity three to five years after the program. Several news reports touted this study as the  final  proof  that  abstinence  education  does  not  work  (Guttmacher  Institute,  2007). However, when the 107 comprehensive or condom-centered programs in the Kirby review are held to the standard of this same time frame (Kirby, 2007), it can be seen that not one of them reported an increase in CCU, nor did any of them report a decrease in STIs over that time period. This lack of program impact was not similarly reported in the news as evidence that CSE programs “do not work.” One does not need to be allied to either camp to acknowledge the bias evident in such comparative evaluations." ABSTINENCE EDUCATION IN CONTEXT: HISTORY,... (PDF Download Available). Available from: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/269574010_ABSTINENCE_EDUCATION_IN_CONTEXT_HISTORY_EVIDENCE_PREMISES_AND_COMPARISON_TO_COMPREHENSIVE_SEXUALITY_EDUCATION [accessed Apr 20 2018]. Most of your information is old.  Let me introduce you to some more recent research: http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2010/02/04/about_that_abstinence_study_100170.html How about the contraceptive "safer sex" education program? Did teaching the kids to use condoms make them more likely to use condoms? Remarkably, no. The kids in the control group were just as likely to use condoms as kids given safer-sex education. Well, then, did the comprehensive "abstinence plus" approach do better at increasing condom use, compared to doing nothing? No, it did not either delay sex or increase condom use, either. The abstinence-only approach, in this one rigorous study, was the only one that "worked." "There is little evidence that educational curriculum-based ("comp" sex ed) programmes (in 8 countries w/ over 55,000 students) alone are effective in improving sexual and reproductive health outcomes for adolescents. http://cochranelibrary-wiley.com/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD006417.pub3/full UK Study found that when funding was cut to "comp" sex ed programs, teen pregnancies dropped: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167629617304551 “Between 1999 and 2010 the British government poured hundreds of millions of pounds into expanded access to birth control and sex education through the national Teenage Pregnancy Strategy program. Post-crash austerity cuts in 2008 slashed the program budget by 70 percent. Politicians and activists sounded the alarm: Rates of teen pregnancy would surely jump because of the funding cuts. Instead, England saw a nearly 50 percent drop in the under-18 conception rate between 2007 and 2015, to the lowest level since 1969, leading the study’s authors to conclude government initiatives to reduce teen pregnancy may be “counterproductive.” https://world.wng.org/content/study_less_sex_education_leads_to_less_sex Contraceptive use among teens:  HHS OAH  https://www.hhs.gov/ash/oah/adolescent-health-topics/reproductive-health/contraceptive-use.html  Rates of teen pregnancy are higher in the U.S. than in other developed countries.[1] Hormonal methods of birth control (such as the pill) and barrier methods (such as condoms) can reduce the risk of pregnancy,[2] and condom use with every sexual act can greatly reduce—though not eliminate—the risk of STDs.[3] Condom and contraceptive use among adolescents has increased since the 1990s, but many adolescents are inconsistent users: roughly a third  of males and nearly half of females reported that they or their partner did not use a condom the last time they had sexual intercourse.[4]
You have been misled by organizations like Planned Parenthood.  Go and read the study from HHS on Pres. Obama's teen pregnancy prevention programs...they were deemed "evidence-based" solely on their own developers ONE study, not replicated by any independent researcher.  Additionally, Dr. Kirby, a favorite sex ed researcher of Planned Parenthood lent his name as a consultant to the SMARTool, which is used by schools to ensure that their program is authentically SRA (sexual risk avoidance).  Dr. Stan Weed is an expert in the field, highly respected.  Read his latest report on how all these "comp" sex ed programs came to be labeled as "effective".  www.prweb.com/releases/2017/09/prweb14697154.htm
Nope! I simply stand by the list of organizations such as the American Academy of Pediatrics, American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, American Medical Association, American Public Health Association, National Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy, National Education Association, National Medical Association, National School Boards Association, and the Society for Adolescent Medicine, among many others, which all support Comprehensive Sex Ed Programs. The middle section of your comment is also unsubstituted assertions which no evidence that doesn't have a basis in any methodological reality. Therefore in the words of Christopher Hitchens, "what can be asserted without evidence can be dismissed without evidence". Your lone study from an organization that I haven't even heard off and so far has not been published in the methodological or peer-reviewed journal does not hold up against the data that is currently out there. Researchers studied the National Survey of Family Growth to determine the impact of sexuality education on youth sexual risk-taking for young people ages 15-19, and found that teens who received comprehensive sex education were 50 percent less likely to experience pregnancy than those who received abstinence-only education. Researcher Douglas Kirby for the National Campaign to End Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy examined studies of prevention programs which had a strong experimental design and used appropriate analysis.  Two-thirds of the 48 comprehensive sex ed programs studied had positive effects. 40 percent delayed sexual initiation, reduced the number of sexual partners, or increased condom or contraceptive use. 30 percent reduced the frequency of sex, including a return to abstinence. 60 percent reduced unprotected sex. Advocates for Youth undertook exhaustive reviews of existing programs to compile a list of programs that have been proven effective by rigorous evaluation.  Twenty-six effective programs were identified, twenty-three of which included comprehensive sex education as at least one component of the program.  The other programs were early childhood interventions.  Of the 23 effective, comprehensive sex education programs: Fourteen programs demonstrated a statistically significant delay in the timing of first sex. 13 programs showed statistically significant declines in teen pregnancy, HIV, or other STIs. 14 programs helped sexually active youth to increase their use of condoms. 9 programs demonstrated success at increasing use of contraception other than condoms. 13 programs showed reductions in the number of sex partners and/or increased monogamy among program participants. 10 programs helped sexually active youth to reduce the incidence of unprotected sex. Sources: http://www.advocatesforyouth.org/storage/advfy/documents/thirdeditionexecutivesummary.pdf Kirby D.  “Sex and HIV Programs:  Their Impact on Sexual Behaviors of Young People Throughout the World.”  Journal of Adolescent Health 40 Institute of Medicine, Committee on HIV Prevention Strategies in the United States. No Time to Lose: Getting More from HIV Prevention. Washington, DC: National Academy Press, Kohler et al. “Abstinence-only and Comprehensive Sex Education and the Initiation of Sexual Activity and Teen Pregnancy.” Journal of Adolescent Health, 42(4): 344-351.
Those organizations are basing their information on earlier research...which you would see was based on problematic research if you weren't afraid to look at Weed's report. HHS study, "“Many of the Teen Pregnancy Prevention evaluations saw positive impacts on measures such as knowledge and attitudes; however, these findings did not translate into positive behavioral changes.”“All but one of the program models meeting the standards of research quality demonstrated evidence of effectiveness through a single study, often conducted by the developer of the program. The review team noted the lack of replication studies as a gap in the evidence base and called for subsequent, independent evaluations to determine the effectiveness of the programs with broader populations and in real-world conditions”. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5049454/ Kirby's name on SMARTool:  Kirby: “…it may actually be easier to delay the onset of intercourse than to increase contraceptive practice.” Kirby, D., Barth, R. P., Leland, N., & Fetro, J. V. (1991). Reducing the Risk: Impact of a new curriculum on sexual risk-taking. Family Planning Perspectives, 23(6), 253-263. Dr. Stan Weed: "Dr. Weed completed his PhD in 1978 at the University of Washington in the field of Social Psychology. He has taught graduate and undergraduate courses in his field. His primary professional and research interest has been the social problems and preventive programs related to adolescents: teen pregnancy, drug abuse, and delinquency. His research has been published in scholarly professional journals and presented at meetings of the American Psychological Association, Academy of Management Association, Society for the Scientific Study of Religion, American Evaluation Association, National Conference on Family Relations, and World Conference of Sociologists. He has served as a consultant to the U.S. Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources, and as a consultant to the Office of Adolescent Pregnancy Programs in the Department of Health and Human Services. His work assessing the impact of current social policy on teen pregnancy has been cited on NBC TV and in The Wall Street Journal, Time Magazine, Readers Digest, and scores of newspapers around the country. Dr. Weed has also been invited to present his work in Washington D.C. at The White House, the U.S. Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources, the U.S. House Committee on Health and Transportation, the U.S. House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, to legislative bodies in several states, and at Moscow University in Russia. He has served as a national consultant for federal Title XX and CBAE projects, and was a charter member of the National Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy. He founded IRE in 1988 and currently serves as Director and CEO." http://institute-research.com/aboutus.php?menu=m6 Look at Kirby's work to see how many of those programs were school based...or clinic based...and how many were replicated by independent researchers.
Dr. Stan Weed has been called by Congress and NPR (among others) as an expert in the field.  In fact NPR's Diane Rehm show had him on w/ Dr. Douglas Kirby (who you cited) about ten years ago.  Kirby himself admitted that it may be easier to teach teens sexual delay than to teach them to use condoms.  He also acted as a consultant w/ Dr. Weed on the SMARTool, a document created for schools to ensure that their curriculum is authentically sexual risk avoidance/abstinence education.  (His name is on the document) https://www.myrelationshipcenter.org/resources/smartool “Many of the Teen Pregnancy Prevention evaluations saw positive impacts on measures such as knowledge and attitudes; however, these findings did not translate into positive behavioral changes.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5049454/ HHS found that all but one of these TPP programs were deemed "evidence-based" solely on only one study, the curriculum's own developer. “All but one of the program models meeting the standards of research quality demonstrated evidence of effectiveness through a single study, often conducted by the developer of the program. The review team noted the lack of replication studies as a gap in the evidence base and called for subsequent, independent evaluations to determine the effectiveness of the programs with broader populations and in real-world conditions”. (same link as above)
Wonderful news. As long as human beings exist, there will be those vile enough to murder. But let's hope that murder becomes illegal and punishable within our lifetimes!
I think it's ok to emphasize abstinence, as long as the full range of contraception can be taught too (which it sounds like is the case, but correct me if I'm wrong). The fact that these funds can't go to groups who would use them for abortion is good.
SRA (sexual risk avoidance abstinence) programs do teach about contraception to teens, but they do not promote their use because the CDC states that teen sex is a health risk behavior.  Teen health risk behaviors are clustered meaning that if a teen engages in one of them, they are highly likely to try another.  (Think sex and alcohol)  Therefore, since we already use risk avoidance approaches for drugs, alcohol, and tobacco, are we not creating a gateway when we use a risk reduction ("comp" sex ed) for teen sex?  CSE programs exaggerate the effectiveness of contraception while ignoring their limitations.  The condom is the only contraceptive that can reduce the risk of STDs, but it can only provide 80% protection against HIV for heterosexuals, less so for homosexuals.  (pg. 3) https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/pdf/risk/estimates/cdc-hiv-risk-prevention.pdf
Hasn’t it already been shown that abstinence only sex ed doesnt work? I’m all for defunding PP, however
Honestly I don’t see why people can’t just say: “The only sure way not to get pregnant is to be abstinent and you should be abstinent until marriage.  Now, here’s all of the ways that married people can reduce the chance of pregnancy...”
So in that context where would one talk about STIs?
Has it?  That's a talking point that abortionists trot out on a regular basis. What's your source?
It’s because it’s well known teenage pregnancies are higher in places where abstinence only education exists. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3194801/ Otherwise it’s just common sense. Teenagers are going to have sex, whether or not they are taught abstinence. They may as well be taught how to have safer sex.
Is that a causal relationship? There aren’t other factors coming into play?
The study checked socio-economic status, education, ethnicity, and access to contraception, along with type of sex education.
California has never accepted Title V abstinence funding, but they are no where near having the lowest teen pregnancy rate in the nation.  According to the CDC, more high school teens are abstaining than having sex (41%).  https://www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth/sexualbehaviors/
There’s a difference between teaching abstinence and choosing abstinence. Funny enough, the last recession may be a factor in why pregnancy rates have gone down in the last decade.
As already noted, correlation does not equal causation.  In any event, what you are promoting is the idea that, rather than the primary purpose of sex, pregnancy is a negative consequence that can be avoided with condoms and abortefacient birth control.  That is an awful strategy to promote a culture of life. Furthermore, if we apply your "common sense" to other behaviors, it becomes evident that it is, in fact, nonsense.  For example, kids are going to do drugs anyway, so, rather than teach them that drug use is dangerous, we should teach them to not share needles.
We should teach them both. Drugs can cause x bad things, and sharing needles can also cause y bad things.
That seems like a mixed message. "Hey kids, drugs are bad, and you should never do them for these reasons. But, if you decide to ignore all these reasons, here's how you can do it a little safer." Granted, my analogy was not perfect, but your rebuttal is just weak.
I don't think acknowledging that some people are going to make dumb mistakes is "encouraging" that behavior.
The problem is, "comp" sex ed is not comprehensive.  It does not teach students all the various reasons why it is in their best reason to wait, it only mentions pregnancy and disease.  Students with strong self-regulation skills enjoy higher academic achievement and also more satisfying long term relationships.  They are more likely to avoid that long list of negative outcomes that comes with having sex like STDs, infertility, depression, suicide, poverty, drug, alcohol, or tobacco use, etc.  Neuroscientist Dr. Jay Giedd said that if you want your teen to grow up like a couch potato, let him be a couch potato as a teen.  Their brains are still developing...should we teach teens to have strong self-control skills, or weak ones?  Strong ones give us mature, sacrificing members of society.  Weak ones give us disease, unmarried mothers, poverty, narcissists, broken homes, addicts...it's all about building character.
I don’t have a source. I’m just going by what I’ve heard, but i hear it from literally everyone and it makes sense that we should teach multiple options, abstinence included. I just don’t think culture is going to shift away from being sex-crazed any time soon
What you've heard has been driven solely by the mainstream media which protects Planned Parenthood.  For example, the dept. of HHS did a review of Pres. Obama's teen pregnancy prevention programs under his watch and found that the vast majority of them were either ineffective or worse.  Girls in Planned Parenthood of the Great Northwest's program actually increased teen pregnancy compared to the alternate program, but the mainstream media did not report it, despite the political firestorm over wanting to defund the organization.  What they actually printed was stories complaining that Pres. Trump was cutting their funding.  No mention was made that they were ineffective or may have had negative outcomes for teens.  pg. 4 https://www.hhs.gov/ash/oah/sites/default/files/ash/oah/oah-initiatives/evaluation/grantee-led-evaluation/summary-ebps.pdf
That's a myth.  "CSE ("comp" sex ed) programs show ‘far more evidence of failure than success'" https://www.benzinga.com/pressreleases/17/09/p10058503/new-findings-by-the-institute-for-research-evaluation-comprehensive-se
This is a terrible idea! Cutting sex education will lead to more unplanned pregnancies.
A study done in the UK showed that when funding was cut to "comp" sex ed programs, teen pregnancies actually decreased.  “David Paton, of the Nottingham University Business School, and Liam Wright, of the University of Sheffield, found that the decline was steepest in areas where councils slashed their teenage pregnancy budgets most aggressively….A study in 2009 looking at a typical Teenage Pregnancy Unit campaign, which included SRE and access to family planning in schools, found that it resulted in significantly higher pregnancy rates. Meanwhile a gold-standard Cochrane review of SRE published last year found that the measure had “no apparent effect on the number of young women who were pregnant”…. Several other groups have found that making it easier for adolescents to get hold of contraceptives has, at best, an ambiguous impact on their sex lives. “Put simply, birth control will reduce the risk of pregnancy for sex acts which would have occurred anyway, but may increase the risk among teenagers who are induced by easier access to birth control either to start having sex or to have sex more frequently,” Professor Paton and Mr Wright wrote…." https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/sex-education-funding-cuts-drive-decline-in-teenage-pregnancies-n67v6mnzr

Most people in prolife communities are against Planned Parenthood because it murders children. They would be very for PP if it provided healthcare but stopped murdering children. Unfortunately, the murder is a big deal.

It's quite simple, actually. If baby murder were made illegal, it would still happen, but much less so. PP stops abortions and still provides what healthcare it is able to. It doesn't matter how much good PP does if it is murdering children, it should be taken down for that murder. If anything, it is warped to argue that it should be kept around despite being murderous.
Yeah prohibition worked real well with alcohol and drugs
It worked pretty well on murder.
I’d assume most governments in history ban murder but decrease in murder rates is a long term trend spanning hundreds of years.
Back in the good old days you could murder anyone you like if you could afford the wergild.
Hard to catch somebody getting an abortion..just going to end up with poor teenagers getting abortions under terrible conditions
It might seem that way, but if it becomes illegal and is investigated as a murder,  it would not be much harder to catch.
You could say that for any crime. If we ban government sponsored cocaine rations for those who use coke then people will still do it in private with unregulated and non-pure cocaine. Only in this case the crime affects not just the offender but also a growing life.
Well in that alcohol use rates dropped significantly under alcohol prohibition it did work well. There were side effects (organised crime etc) but technically it worked. With drugs we don’t know whether use would increase if they were fully legal but I imagine they would because I would probably be tempted to take ceirtain drugs in ceirtain situations where their illegality and thus unverified purity/difficulty of access means I wouldn’t now and I can’t imagine I’m the only one.
If only there was place low- and no- income women could go for comprehensive health care and prenatal care. Wait, there is. It's called an FQHC and they are all over the country. We don't need planned parenthood who only offers birth control prescriptions, some STI testing, and then abortion, when we can go somewhere that offers EVERYTHING we need sans the murdering of children. This is where our tax dollars should be concentrated.
Because the offer abortions?
They love killing babies.


It doesn't really matter WHY somebody would murder even if they hate murder. What matters is that murder is wrong and illegal. It still happens, but it remains illegal.
What do you think soldiers do?
Soldiers don't intentionally murder innocent people without consequence. Soldiers who intentionally commit murder against innocents are severely punished. If you think otherwise then you have a warped view of our military, which holds to some incredibly and absurdly high standards.
I am assuming soldiers, like most humans, don’t like to kill people. They kill people anyway because it is their profession, because they want to survive in the battlefield, because there are some truly evil people out there, because sometimes they make mistakes, because it was their duty, because the army was their way out of a shitty life, because of many many reasons. I understand that it is can be a difficult decision to be a soldier and an even more difficult one to pull a trigger, even at an enemy. In most cases, I don’t judge why a soldier do what they do. In most cases, I also will not judge why someone goes through with an abortion.
Who cares why they get it? They're ending a life for selfish outcomes
There are substantive differences between the two, though. One is killing an enemy. The other is murdering an innocent child. These are not equivalent or even close to one another.
Some enemies are child soldiers who were kidnapped and forced to fight but that is besides the point. The equivalence I am making is one of difficult decisions and my judgement of others who have to make those difficult decisions.
I don't believe it matters at all if a woman's decision to murder her child is a difficult one.
Why would you assume we haven't done that? It's not like I was pregnant and poor at 17 years old or anything. What would I know about crisis pregnancy? I mean, you'd have to be crazy to want to protect unborn children, right? Please think before you make comments like this. We're not all rich Christian males who have no concept of desperation. In fact, MOST of us are not.
Why would you assume I am a rich Christian male? I am a woman. While I would personally not have an abortion, I wouldn’t force others to make the same choice I would. At the end of the day, I think we all want the best for children but have different ideas of what that means.
When did I say you were? I was pointing out that your assumption that we had never thought of why a woman would want an abortion is fucking insane, and thats obviously how you see pro-lifers if you really think we are that oblivious to the world.
When you say “not all of us are rich Christian makes” in reply to my comment, the implication is that it is what you think I am. There is a hard to describe rigidity to a lot of pro-life comments.
I guess if you had spent any time around the pro-life Reddit you would know that's a running theme. They quickly assume we're all Christian men and therefore cannot comment on the topics. So when you make a comment that says "you have no idea what it's like to be pregnant and desperate" all that says to me is that you assume the same thing. It's not my problem if you misread it.
I suggested an empathy exercise to someone who commented “they love killing babies”. It’s hard to not make an assumption that they haven’t thought it through when they make a comment like that. Unless they meant to be sarcastic which I don’t think was the case.
Well the problem is that they actually do, so...I suggest an exercise in google. It's pretty easy to find articles and videos, or simply interact with "pro-choicers" and hear the shit that comes out of their mouths.

Abortion, which they increase and focus on every year while deemphasizing the rest. And regular health centers do much better without murdering babies.
They kill 300,000 babies each year. I don't care what else they do.

My favorite thing about this is the prevalence of "I'm 100% anti-abortion, but I can't make that decision for someone else. Killing is wrong but I can take away a woman's choice to do what is right for her." What if we applied that to other types of killing? If you believe it's killing, why would you make an exception? I believe rape is wrong, but I can't tell a man what to do with this body. I have to trust he knows what is right for him, so it should be completely legal. What the actual fuck. If it's wrong, we don't just let people decide whether doing it is right for them.
The cognitive dissonance is disturbing to say the least. They admit it’s murder but that’s okay because choice?
Ot the glorious and goddess-given right of corporal/bodily integrity...
"There are no inherent rights, so babies can't have a right to life." "You can't violate a woman's right to bodily autonomy." Literally had someone say those two things within the span of one argument. So which is it? We have no rights, or we're violating women's rights?
They want to pick option c: all of the above

Yeah, we have long know that restricting abortion reduces abortion. Not only is it common sense, but the data is there. Every side has shit they're irrational about. The right side says "restricting firearms doesn't reduce gun violence!!" when the data and statistic from restrictive countries shows it does. The left side said "restricting abortion doesn't lower abortion rates!!!" when the data clearly shows that it does. Everyone is an asshole when it comes down to it and showing proof won't do anything to change that. Still gonna fight that good fight, though.
For context - why has no one realized before that the Guttmacher Institute's data does in fact show an inverse correlation between restrictiveness of abortion laws and abortion? I had some spare time and pulled this data together; basically, to show that abortion laws make a woman more likely to abort all you have to do is substitute the abortion rate (i.e. the number of abortions per 1000 child-bearing age women) and the abortion ratio (i.e. the ratio of abortions to pregnancies as a whole). Everyone seems to have pretty much accepted the GI's conclusion on the matter: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/may/11/criminalising-abortion-does-not-cut-number-of-terminations-says-study But as far as I can tell - their own data tell the opposite story. Am I wrong?
Your observation makes sense. Thanks for this!
FYI, I've also done research into the effects of abortion laws, and found that dozens of studies do show that abortion decreases when it's restricted. I listed the studies in the post stickied at the top of this subreddit, if you want more info.
Less likely to have legal abortions. I suspect women still want access to abortions.
The Guttmacher Institute numbers, I'm pretty sure, are estimations of both legal and illegal abortions
This post was removed because you have a new account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.





They don't understand irony
They wouldn't understand irony if it grabbed them by the forceps and ripped them apart.
How is it ironic?
Abortion is violence
Not really.
How is it not?
Fetuses are not people, no matter how many times people say they are.
"Fetuses are people, no matter how many times people say they aren't." We're getting nowhere fast! Is there an agreed-upon definition of person that you can use to prove that fetuses are not people?
The difference is science is on my side.
How? You didn't answer my question: is there an agreed-upon definition of person that you can use to prove that fetuses are not people? And science is not on your side. A fertilized egg is a human being at its earliest stage. A fetus is a human being at a slightly later stage. http://www.princeton.edu/%7Eprolife/articles/embryoquotes2.html The first definition of person: http://www.dictionary.com/browse/person?s=t "1. a human being, whether an adult or child." Ergo, fetus = human being = person.
Do the Irish even want this?  Or is it just international pressure? Edit: By "this" I mean a reversal of their pro-life laws.
While article is about Northern Ireland, I assume you're referring to the upcoming abortion referendum in the Republic of Ireland. Unfortunately, the "Repeal the 8th" (Pro-Choice) movement has quite a bit of steam. Much of the Irish do want it. The younger generations have become largely disenchanted with Catholicism and are rebelling by swinging in the opposite direction. The PM is pro-choice and is the leader of what is generally a center-right party, so not even a political sway would change much. I'm American, but studied in Ireland for some time. It breaks my heart to see this happen to a country that I love so dearly. Ireland was one of the few (maybe only?) examples of a fully developed country functioning healthily while outlawing abortion.

What are they so afraid of? If they were confident that what they were doing was good, they wouldn't care who was in the audience. I will never understand the desire to hide dissenting opinions like they're scared people will change sides, god forbid.
Funny, I thought abortion was only a small part of Planned Parenthood's business. What's wrong with some pro-lifers, eh?
https://www.lifesitenews.com/news/democrats-abandon-their-last-pro-life-congressman-back-pro-abortion-woman-iRIP
What a shame that the supposedly "prolife" party is not so concerned with ideological purity.


So, the link has more to do with the 'post-birth' kind of infanticide rather than the pre-birth sort, but I decided this would make a good question for pro-lifers to consider. From the article: So, it's a pretty simple question. Can any pro-lifer read this and suggest the mother wasn't really culpable? That she should not have been punished? And if not... then how can any pro-lifer just assume that all women who get abortions are victims, and thus no punishment is warranted?
To be clear, I support punishing abortion equally with infanticide, including capital punishment. Of course mitigating factors like being forced against her will, being threatened, being of unsound mind etc would be considered. And in our time, a significant portion of the population literally does not understand that abortion kills a living human, while everyone knows what killing a born child is. From a pragmatic point of view, cultural change happens gradually and in order to get any political prolife progress, it will have to reflect that. Society didn't go from "abortion is murder and will be punished as such" to "abortion on demand until birth" overnight, and it can't go back overnight either. We must not lose sight of what abortion truly is and how it should be punished justly, but we can't make perfection the enemy of progress either.
I agree, but with the caveat that we cannot "grandfather" old crimes, no matter how heinous. It should be illegal. I think it should carry the death penalty. But at the same time, punishing people for a crime that happened before it was legally a crime would set a very dangerous precedent.
I agree. Abortion should be punished as any other murder, but it should not apply retroactively.
I’m very curious on why you would want to punish abortion with capital punishment. In my view, that doesn’t mesh well with pro-life. You can be anti abortion and in favor of capital punishment. But if life is to be revered, why would you kill someone for killing someone?
You're conflating executing a murderer with executing an innocent baby. If you don't see the difference between the two, you frighten me.
I do see the difference. I suppose I assumed there was an underlying principle to why killing someone was wrong such as "life is sacrosanct" etc. that killing a convicted criminal would be violating. However, if you believe the right to life is a conditional right that can be lost through actions (crime), then you could divide the two issues. I personally do not divide the two issues, believe in an underlying philosophical claim about the value of life, and do not believe the right to life is conditional. I also believe saying that the right to life is conditional may lead to a slippery slope of what conditions are acceptable. Now it is those who have committed crimes, but who is to say that those who are mentally ill, handicapped, of a different race, etc. might not also be one day said to not meet the conditions necessary to qualify for the right to life?
One may not be deprived of life, liberty, or property without due process of law- these were the the Natural Rights originally proposed by John Locke,  the one that founded the idea.  Even he recognized that those who violate the rights of others must have theirs taken away- including the death penalty in extreme circumstances. You are comparing the innocent to murderers and rapists- comparing voluntary and heinous actions to innate features of a person. The two are not remotely comparable, and it is blatantly dishonest to portray them as such.
Well I would argue that others have discussed the right to life outside of the political sphere for hundreds if not thousands of years, although many in a religious context. I don’t agree with John Locke’s supposition that you are granted the right to life and it can be taken away. No one granted you the right to life. You have always had it. I am not comparing innocent lives versus murderers. I am suggesting that all people, regardless of any factor, be it age, innocence, race, ability, gender, engagement and contribution to society, possesses this right to life. Not a right that has been man made, such as in the bill of rights or the amendments. It’s not like the right to arms or to own property. It is the fundamental understanding that life is not something that can be dictated. I would say to be alive is an innate feature of a being.
God granted me the right to life, and you cannot take that right away from me, nor from innocent children who are in the womb. And a belief in a Creator is essential to the very concept. So you think we shouldn't protect natural rights then and that those who violate them should just be allowed to continue doing such? That seems antithetical to the very concept of natural rights. You seem to have a very nihilistic view of things.
I would say I am the very opposite of a nihilist. I believe we should protect natural rights, but God gave us those natural rights. Not any man or government. And it is not man’s right to take the right to life away. Who are we to play God? We can defend and protect natural rights in other ways without this reactive justice. I thought we were past “an eye for an eye”

I'm not convinced that this should be a mitigating factor. Do we punish violent Klansmen or Nazis less harshly because they don't believe their victims are fully human?
I don't consider it a mitigating factor (unlike being under duress, which I mentioned). What I meant was: since the unborn are widely dehumanized, political progress towards punishing abortion as murder will not be possible until major cultural change.
Why should anyone believe this? If anything, cultural change now seems capable of happening very rapidly. Hell, even abortion became nationwide legal overnight in a thunderclap from the SCOTUS. Now that was legal change, not cultural change. But then, I'm talking about legal attitude. Keep in mind, it's not that pro-lifers - at least, the ones I'm talking about - refuse to punish ANYone. They will gladly talk about punishing abortionists. And I think the opposite risk is more salient: by trying to be so appealing, so non-confrontational and so ultimately saccharine - to so many people - that opposition to abortion melts away. If we can't even say that women who get abortions are doing something condemnable - if 'society' has so confused them that they simply don't understand what pro-lifers (and even many middle-of-the-roaders) can so plainly see... then the justification for any kind of punishment at all goes away too. Saying that women are just not culpable for abortion, that they are ALWAYS victims, seems to me an exact example of 'losing sight of what abortion truly is'.
I guess it depends what you mean by rapidly. The acceptance of abortion came out of several generations of secularization and the sexual revolution. Those things were part of a fundamental change in how society in the West was organized. On a large scale, kingdoms ruled by divine right became secular nation-states governed by popular sovereignty, and the laws changed according to their source. Objective morality was exchanged for "the will of the people". On a small scale, individualism and the idol of personal choice replaced community and duty. So yes, you can say that a court decision happened overnight, but the groundwork for it took centuries.
You can say that "to make an apple pie from scratch, you have to go back to the Big Bang" a la Carl Sagan, but that's not the appropriate frame of reference when I ask you how long it takes to make a pie. I think the same holds here. Cultural change, especially in this modern world, can take place rapidly. The ultimate reasons for why the changes can be sudden (on everything from gay marriage to transgenders to otherwise) may have its roots in a philosophical transformation. But we're still left with rapid change. 'The will of the people' can be very rapid too. What also is forgotten is that pro-life people are entirely capable of being changed as well. While caution and delicacy and a desire not to say anything that may cause stress sounds appealing, it's also a great way to convince pro-lifers, over time, that they aren't really fighting for anything of importance. Certainly nothing worth risking upsetting people over. I see this at times with pro-lifers who seem to cringe at the idea of calling abortion murder, because then the pro-abortion won't want to have a nice, long, civilized debate with them. 'Having a long friendly discussion with your friends who are ardently pro-abortion' ends up being the most important thing to preserve.
I'll agree with you on that, but I have serious doubts on whether it can rapidly change for good, in terms of abortion. The "normal" expectation of sex without procreation outside of marriage means that there will be regular number of unwanted pregnancies, and a morally relativist society will adapt its morals and laws to accommodate its practices. Honestly, I don't know if abortion can ever be punished as murder until those things are changed. I doubt that slavery would have been abolished in the West without the technological and societal changes that made it happen. Where slavery still thrives in the world, I doubt it will go away until similar changes happen. I'm very skeptical about the capacity for the "will of the people" to reflect morality that inconveniences it. I really agree with you about not sugarcoating the fact that abortion is murder, though. It's a good way to not only give prolifers no reason to fight on, but confirm for prochoicers and neutrals that we aren't fighting for the lives of the unborn but just trying to control women's behavior. Believe me, if there was some way I could support legislation to punish abortion as murder, I wouldn't hesitate a second. I just honestly don't see it happening in the near future, until there is a fundamental cultural change. I would love to be wrong about it. Perhaps my view of human nature is more pessimistic than yours.
I'm not even saying 'punished as murder' necessarily. 'Murder' comes in all manner of degrees anyway. But for some pro-lifers, 'punished at all' is off the table. And I mean off the table in the sense of, 'It's not even treated as deserved.' I think you may misunderstand me, given that. I'm not asking for legislative pushes here. You can easily convince me, 'This given legislative goal simply will not work right now.' But culturally? In terms of attitude? That's another story. To frame it right: child porn is wrong. Let's say we're in a country, in a culture, where - for whatever reasons - child porn is legal, and a good portion of the country regards it as an essential human right. We're not going to have any chance of legislatively pushing through harsh legal punishment for child porn in this scenario. Fine - that may be the case. Work to be done, etc. But for those who recognize that child porn is immoral, I would consider it a horrible mistake to say 'Well, we can't say that it's monstrous, we can't say the people procuring it are monstrous. That would shut down debate. We should say that everyone is a victim here, except maybe the video store owners.' Note that this is about cultural, social attitudes among the anti-CP. The legal question is put to the side here.
I agree with you on all that: it's very important that we call abortion the murder that it is and hold everyone involved responsible, including the mother. Do you think that society can change culturally, in terms of attitude on abortion without the underlying situation being changed first, though? I'm not sure about your example, but consider infanticide in ancient Rome. The paterfamilias had vitae necisque potestas (power of life and death) - it was his right to decide whether to kill his newborn children or allow them to live. Roman law even made it obligatory to kill deformed babies. So it remained for centuries, maybe a millenium, until it was a banned (in 374) a short 6 years before Christianity became the official religion of Rome (in 380). A coincidence? I don't think so. I commend all the secular prolifers for recognizing the objective morality, the natural law that is written in our hearts and apparent to all. But I don't think those few will be enough to end abortion, culturally or legally, when it is inconvenient for society as a whole. Like pagan Rome, I don't see us ending abortion until our own Edict of Thessalonica.
Strangling a newborn with your bare hands and taking a pill are two pretty different acts with two variable amounts of knowledge and culpability.
Granted. But not every abortion is an RU-486 issue. Pro-lifers will often rightly argue 'Why is it murder if it takes place 1 second after leaving the womb, but just a medical procedure if it takes place 1 second before leaving the womb?' But that can be turned around: why would pro-lifers regard this woman as culpable for infanticide in the former case, but not in the latter? Now, I'm talking about a subset of pro-lifers here - not all. And you rightly note that there could at least be a knowledge/realization difference depending on the pregnancy stage. But that's not my target. There are pro-lifers who will insist women who get abortions are victims, period.
Well I think no matter what you're arguing, there's going to be a fundamental difference between a woman murdering what is clearly a baby and a woman hiring someone to do something she doesn't have to see or understand. That's not to say she is definitely ignorant. But in one case she definitely cannot be ignorant.
I see the point of that. But I do think there's one area where this goes awry. Namely: do you think this consideration is in play for boyfriends/husbands who push their girlfriends/wives to get an abortion? Now, it's easy to just be consistent and say 'Sure.' But my anecdotal experience is, once -that- gets brought up, people actually get conflicted.
I see. Well I can't speak to your experience; the stance you bring up does sound pretty inconsistent (blaming boyfriends but not the woman). I would personally see them as on the same level.
Well, this young child was obviously mentally disturbed to be toting around a dead freaking baby--- and why the Hell had this girl had 3 babies by 16???  Was she being molested?  I mean there are a lot of questions in this gruesome instance.

Absolutely disgusting, 5k upvotes Reddit is truly a majority of selfish, unempathetic, jerks.
The amount of "I'm totally pro-choice, don't worry" happening in that thread is mind-blowing. I've been told not to use the term virtue signaling since it's unhelpful but, yeah, there it is. A bunch of men, who apparently aren't allowed to have an opinion on abortion, sitting around wondering why pro-lifers hate women or some shit. God, we are such a fucking enlightened generation, aren't we?
It's mainstream Reddit. What were you expecting?
The top comment shows me a little glimmer of hope. That is on the r/bestof thread, not the original
Nah fam, they just went back on us hating woman again.
They just pretend female pro-lifers don't exist because it doesn't fit their narrative.
lol I've been called a man and misogynist so many times by these subs I've lost count.
Right! I'm tired of pointing out that not only am I a woman, but I've also experienced a "crisis pregnancy" at the age of 17 and chose not to abort despite being pretty damn poor. I think I know a bit about these women's issues they think they are championing when they talk about abortion.
I think I’m going to delete this app sooner than later
Very little intelligence has ever come out of that place.
Hi, I'm fairly pro-choice and have a question about miscarriage. This is something I've wondered about, but don't have any pro-life friends to ask and wanted to know what the opinion here is:The idea behind being pro-life to my understanding is that a fetus is a person and because of that, it's wrong to kill a fetus or to put it in harm's way.So if a woman had a condition that made her very prone to miscarriages (genetic or due to constant drug use), should she not be allowed to conceive? My thinking is that taking away a person's right to bear children seems intuitively un-Christian. But also allowing a woman to knowingly unintentionally kill fetuses in the womb seems at least like 3rd degree murder if a fetus is treated as a person.I'm not trying to stump people here or ask a "gotcha" question, I've just wanted an honest answer to this question for a while. Thanks for any replies and I hope this didn't come across as disrespectful.Edit: Thanks to everyone who responded. I learned a lot and have new things to consider about abortion.
My mother had 9 miscarriages.  Had she somehow been sterilized I would have never been born, nor would my sister.  Nor would any of her 8 bio grandchildren. If my wife had been sterilized after her 3 miscarriages none of my 3 bio children would have been born. Miscarriage is a horrible thing.  It does not mean that life is impossible.
No, of course not. It is not her fault if her children die from natural causes that she had no choice in. Similarly, it isn't morally wrong to conceive a child in a world where there is a high mortality rate of born children. We all bring children into a world that has a 100% death rate in the end. The mother (and father) are not harming their children, the world is. It is no more the parents' fault if death comes at a few weeks after conception, or 18 months, or 108 years.
Would it be third degree murder to intentionally conceive a child, that is likely to die after 75 years?
I see the comparison as being closer to "would it be 3rd degree murder to raise a child in a house when you knew that the house killed half of the children." I get what you're saying though.
By that standard, all of our ancestors would be murderers. For many groups of ancient humans, the infant mortality rate could be as high as 50%. Do you think it was morally wrong for ancient people to reproduce? Was it tantamount to murder?
Miscarriages are surprisingly common (had 4 myself, and two healthy babies) and most of the time doctors don’t have a reason for it, especially if the baby dies early on.  After the 3rd miscarriage they test husband and wife to see if there are underlying problems, but we came out fine.  I know someone who has 5 kids but also I think 6 miscarriages.  She is a super devoted mom and her kids are all great, really nice family. The point I’m trying to make is pregnancy and which baby will make it or won’t is kind of mysterious.  So in most cases of miscarriage, doctors don’t actively try to discourage further attempts. And I agree with the posters above, you are trying to have a baby, the intent is to bring forth life.  Abortion is you are trying NOT to bring forth life.  Different motivations and for an abortion you have to actively carry out the act.
I guess my question is that if you knew for sure that 3/4 times you'd miscarry whether or not it would be wrong. Good to know from someone with experience that such a thing isn't a practical situation, but I still think it's interesting from a thought experiment point of view. But that clarification wouldn't change your answer. I'd like to discuss it more in depth, but honestly I've heard a lot how miscarriage is terrible to experience as a mother and I think some of the questions I'd have might come across as really insensitive without that being the intention. Thanks for your answer
The moral dilemma youre posing is definitely real.  If you know that trying to have a baby is 75% likely to result in a miscarriage, then there’s the implication that you are willing to risk life in order to create it.    There probably isnt an optimal answer since both sides have moral ramifications.  Knowingly kill a baby vs prevent life from being born or restrict a woman’s right to procreate since she’s so likely to cause death to the fetus. Moral dilemmas surrounding abortion will likely never go away because the answer is so grey and so polarizing.
Jew here. Protecting life is a human thing, not a Christian thing. So there's that. But also to answer your question, no. We are against the intentional killing of unborn children. Miscarriage is death by natural causes. While tragic and heartbreaking, it isn't murder. People who miscarry multiple times have just as much right to try for a healthy full-term baby as anyone else.
Also thanks for your answer. Like a lot of these here, it's thoughtful and honest. Agreed, though generally the idea that life begins at conception is a religious one from what I've seen. The pro-life atheist in this thread is the only one I've heard of. Right, but if you know that the odds of those natural causes are far higher with you, wouldn't that be negligent? Like raising a kid in a saw mill? Or another way to frame it is that is it okay to have the mindset that several people have already died inside you, and you know that several more may so that one may live? Is the life of the one that lived worth the several ones that died?
And some people do choose to stop trying, some feel guilty and give up. It's not their fault but I understand why they feel that way. The pro-life position is not to make sure as many children as possible are born. It's simply being against the intentional killing of the ones who already exist. If you look at it more from that angle, it's less confusing. All people have different risk factors that raise or lower their risk of death. It doesn't keep whole swaths of populations from reproducing. Black people have a higher risk of heart disease and diabetes. Should we encourage them to stop having children because they will likely die later? Absolutely not. Everyone will die later. My dad had both diabetes and heart disease, and died younger than he should have. But should his parents have stopped trying to have kids because of their medical history? It was almost guaranteed he would get both. It's not wrong to conceive a child because that child might die. One exception though is people who carry the gene for diseases like Tay-Sachs.  They actually do usually opt to prevent conception at all costs because that isn't just death, that's more like torture then death. This doesn't mean if a child is conceived and they have Tay-Sachs, that we should kill them to prevent their suffering. That's heart breaking, but it would be wrong to intentionally kill another human. They are just as valuable as anyone else. Oh also you should check out secular pro-life. It's entirely dedicated to the pro-life movement from a completely non-religious point of view. There are actually a ton of pro-life atheists.
I agree with a lot of that, but some of the statements you're going off of I feel like I need to evaluate more carefully. That specifically is one I'm sure sure if I agree with 100% and the Tay-Sachs case you mentioned is one that gives me pause. If an unborn child's survival rate is also very low I might also be on the fence if I accepted the premise that a fetus has the same rights as a person. Also this: Again, I agree with that in a lot of cases, but in some like euthanasia it doesn't seem so black and white for me. Thanks for giving me some stuff to think about :)
Well even we understand there's gray area. We're dealing with people, it's never black and white. I'm not even sure if I'm against voluntary euthanasia if a person making the decision is of sound mind. My husband would disagree, as his reasons are largely religious, but that's very gray for me. I don't think we should be euthanizing children, that would be horrible, but I don't know if I'm against an adult making that decision for themselves. This doesn't reflect the opinion of most pro-lifers, I'm sure.  I wouldn't call it intentionally killing another human, it's more like suicide. Everything else, though, I'm very clear on. I'm glad I gave you some things to think about, and I'm happy you're taking the time to think more about it. I hope you realized that we're not as fanatical as people make us seem. Most of us just really want to protect the vulnerable, we're extremely compassionate, and just want to help. As a woman, I know the feeling of being scared and out of options. I don't just sympathize with people going through an unwanted pregnancy looking for an abortion, I actually know first hand what it feels like. I was 17 when I got pregnant, so it's not like I'm coming from a place of privilege, just sitting around trying to take women's rights away. I chose life and my son is my entire world. I hope this gives you a better understanding of the type of people behind the pro-life movement!
Interesting question. The woman in this case shouldn’t be kept from getting pregnant. Every single woman is at risk of a potential miscarriage. Some have higher odds, some have lower. Even if your odds are fairly high for a miscarriage, that’s not a reason to forcefully prevent yourself from getting pregnant. If miscarriage does occur, it’s still a natural process and it’s not like the mom actually deliberately caused it to happen. Abortion is different because you are deliberately and intentionally ending the pregnancy and killing the unborn child. With this high risk of miscarriage case, it’s still nature causing the death in a sense; whereas in the abortion case, it’s a person causing the death. Hope that makes sense :)
Good point, intention obviously matters here and it's a huge difference. But if we knew that your odds of miscarriage were, say 75%, would it be wrong to try to conceive and statistically allow 3 people to die so that one could live? If the idea is to minimize the deaths of unborn children shouldn't we try to limit conceptions from women who are likely to miscarry? Or are those deaths an acceptable cost to give life? Also, not trying to grill you with these questions, just following up to what you wrote :)
I’ll reiterate a previous comment that you shouldn’t assume pro-life=Christian. However, as one I can say that Christians believe that we are commanded to “be fruitful and multiply”. So we have a responsibility to create life. That’s the simplest answer IMO, but people on here have already presented plenty of good logic on this thread.
Well, I've had 5. I am no Christian, and so I believe preserving life is a human thing, not really anything to do with religion. But our intent when a baby is conceived, should we know about it, is to bring life into the world. When people die of natural causes, do you blame their mother? Not usually. Well, it's basically the same here.
A miscarriage isn't the caused by negligent behavior. In fact, many miscarriages are wanted pregnancies, in women whose body simply rejects the pregnancy because it can't handle a pregnancy or the embryo/fetus has severe defects. There is nothing they can do about that.
I have been wondering about this too. A lot of people here are talking about how the intent is different, which makes sense and all, but I still wonder about it. With born people we do everything we can to prevent natural death... So it seems like we would do that with unborn people... But we dont. Idk. I guess everyone has there line for autonomy vs life and for some people its whether the intent is to create life. Maybe its just like unborn people are important enough not to murder, but if their death is a side affect of a desire to have kids then its okay. I think thats just the line we draw.
Right, that seems to be the conclusion that's being drawn here in this thread, and it's what I'm really interested in. It leads to the idea that 1 fetus being killed on purpose is far worse than 10 dying in the womb naturally, and that preventing fetus murders is more important than preventing fetus deaths in general. Maybe that should have been obvious before, but it's not something I really considered about the pro-life perspective
What do you propose we do about it?
We don't do everything. We take reasonable precautions based off what we know, and don't intentionally kill each other. Not allowing some people to try to have children because of a possibility of miscarriage does not fit into this same category.
That's nice. I'm an atheist. So.
Yeah, OP seems to have an ingrained bias that prolife=Christian. Hopefully, by continuing to interact in a respectful manner, they learn otherwise.
This is actually one of the most interesting things I've seen in this thread. I've never met a pro-life atheist. I guess you know what they say about making assumptions
Lol indeed. You never know your assumptions ARE assumptions until someone points it out for you. I'd also like to say that serious pro-life advocates employ the same rationale, regardless of religious belief. It's based on scientific knowledge and fundamental ethical standards.
This is completely new to me. If you don't mind me asking, without religion, what is your reasoning that life begins at conception?
I'm sorry but are you suggesting that the definition of human life is a religious concept as opposed to a scientific one?
The definition of a fetus being the same as a person with all of the rights of a person is generally a philosophical or religious concept more than a scientific one I'd say.
Here, you speak of scientific facts. Then, you switch to philosophy. Yet you conflate the two as if they are equivalent. They're not. In your first comment, you insinuated that a scientific fact was a matter of religious belief. That is what I was responding to. When life begins is not a religious concept. Would you agree to that?
Yup, you're right. I misworded it, my bad. I meant to say 'personhood begins at conception.'
So I am a secular humanist. I believe all human beings deserve human rights (what you'd call "personhood"). Religion is not required to value human beings. That would be like me saying "Without religion, what is your reasoning that born human beings have personhood?" I mean do you need religion to believe killing born humans is wrong? Presumably no. Then why would you to believe killing preborn humans is wrong?
I don't think you have to be religious to value human life, but my impression is that most people who strongly believe that personhood begins at conception are religious. Looking at people who responded here, I could have been entirely wrong. There are a few premises you have that I haven't entirely decided entirely on or am leaning against: -You presume something is either a human or it isn't, there is no in-between. -You presume a zygote at the moment of conception is as much a person as you and I are. -You presume that a person's right to life entails the right to use another person's body in order to live. To reiterate what I've said elsewhere in the thread, I'm not here to change minds or argue, I'm just presenting what I think since you asked.
Ok, but it doesn't follow that therefore being religious is required for valuing preborn life. Most people who think murder is wrong are religious; does it follow that you need to be religious to think murder is wrong? If we're talking about what is or isn't a living human organism as defined scientifically, then yeah. I would highly advise you to read that link as closely as possible, through the end. I think you should be careful with how you go about articulating my position, since you see the word "person" as entirely different than I do. I view the term "person" as "a human organism who deserves the right to not be killed unjustly," whereas you probably project a lot more onto the concept of personhood. So just try not to conflate your definition with mine. Not in all circumstances, no. Only if that person has made a willing choice with full foreknowledge to make another human being fully dependent on their body -- and only their body -- to live. Foreknowledge + willing choice ( = consenting), unique need, and death is the alternative. That places an entirely unparalleled layer of responsibility for that life onto their shoulders that generally doesn't exist in most other scenarios.
I agree. I wasn't trying to make the point that only religious people are against abortion, though I might have mistakenly thought it was a vast majority. In reality it looks like there is at least a strong correlation. I did read it, thank you :) I thought it was interesting how it also covered miscarriage. My issue with it was that it thought that by proving an embryo is human from the standpoint of a biological definition that it also proves that an embryo is a person in the moral sense of the word. I think the issue is with my terminology. I was using "person" and "human" interchangeably, and that's pretty confusing. I don't disagree at all that an embryo is biologically human. I'm just not certain if I would consider it the same as a "human being" or person from a moral standpoint. Until a certain age in the womb they lack a lot of very fundamental aspects of what most people would consider a person like consciousness, the ability to feel pain, and the ability to think. For example (and this isn't a great one, but it's late here) if you had a zygote that hypothetically would not die, but also never grow or mature past a few cells, that would be human biologically, but probably not what even a pro-life supporter would call a person. Given that zygotes do mature it's more of a gray area, but I'd still say that consciousness and brain activity are necessary to call someone a person, and not just the fact that a fetus will mature. But I'd also say that that point has some philosophical weaknesses, since depending on how you construct that argument, you could also argue that it's okay to kill all coma patients and people with severe mental handicaps. I'm still mulling it over. So I take it you'd consider abortion acceptable in the case of rape? I'm not sure I believe that just because pregnancy is a foreseeable consequence that it gives a mother responsibility to carry the baby to term, or that it includes tacit consent to let another person use your body. Do you have any reasoning for it past the fact that such a sense of moral obligation seems obvious to you?

To actually answer your question, life beginning at conception has been scientifically proven. It's a fact. A genetically unique and living human being is created the second sperm touches egg. It grows, metabolizes, reacts to stimuli, etc. Its alive. The people who doubt that are the people who refuse to listen to reason, which I don't think is you considering your conduct thus far. The question really should be whether that living human being has personhood, with the rights and the protection that comes with it. A lot of people think personhood is magically bestowed somewhere in the 2nd trimester, and some even think it isn't granted til birth and can be killed right up to that point. We pro-lifers believe that if it's human, it's a person. Any idea that involves revoking personhood from a human being is dangerous. The holocaust happened because the Jews were not considered 'persons' and therefore had no rights. Slaves weren't either until they were granted partial personhood later for census and voting. Whenever someone wants to justify killing another human being, they simply have to say "well they don't have personhood" and suddenly it's ok to kill them. This tactic of dehumanizations is characteristic of all major mass atrocities.  "Clump of cells" is dehumanization. To prevent this, all human beings must also be granted personhood. You cannot be a human but not a person. Therefore humans in the womb and out all have rights.
Thanks for writing that out. I'm not here to debate it since I'm not here to try to change minds or tell people that they're wrong in what they believe. I definitely agree with your first few sentences, that a fetus is alive. It's the next part we differ on a bit.
Agnostic here.  You all are scaring the f- out of me because my daughter is pregnant right now and I will probably go in to a major depression if something happens to this much anticipated baby.  I will lose my shit-- but I will acknowledge that there is 100% difference between a poor woman TRYING to have a healthy baby and losing it verses a drug addict getting randomly pregnant and killing it with drugs while gestating.   I don't think that either should be sterilized, but I DO think there should be negative consequences for the drug addict, and I don't mean punishment necessarily, but TREATMENT 100% and if she gets pregnant again while being an addict, then she should be locked up, so as not to kill her baby again. PS.... finding out what we are having next week!  I think it's a girl, but I will be happy either way!
Ah congrats!!!!!! If I didn't love sleep so much I'd have a million more babies. So wonderful. Best wishes to you and your daughter (and grand baby!!)
Congrats! But seriously get out of this thread if you're going to lose sleep over it. I'm sure it'll go fine :)
This is a stupid question. You making connections between miscarriage and intentionally killing an unborn child, is like saying that parents should be charged with murder because their child died of cancer.
This person is genuinely curious and being respectful. This is not a stupid question
My Aunt had a miscarriage. She and her family were devastated. My cousin is dead.  Her comparing this, to a person who would deliberately kill their unborn child, is sick.
Try not to react in hostility to someone asking an honest and respectful question.
Yeah, the more I think about it, the more issues I see with it. It's easier to see that when I talk to people though. Here's a slightly different one for you if you're interested: if part of the goal of being pro-life is to prevent the deaths of fetuses, do you think providing pre-natal care to women who can afford it to prevent miscarriages and saving lives that way has similar importance to preventing abortions? Or is that not the case because the idea of killing unborn children is so much worse than natural death?
Yes i think something should be done to save the life of a baby in womb, just like there should be something done to save the life of a premature born baby or any other human being. We can't just let them die. My university prolife group recently raised money towards this issue. This group is also about to raise money for pieta house (a councelling service for depressed and suicidal people.)
http://np.reddit.com/r/politics/comments/7zu3tv/sc_antiabortion_bill_the_measure_does_not_offer/duqsgjj
And of course there is the carry to term horror story.  Dude, I've done that.  It was the single most heartwrenching and beautiful and painful thing I have ever done.  And I would do it again in a heartbeat. More important, though, is the simple fact that women who carry to term are shown to have better psychological outcomes.  Here is a recent study on the subject, which states in part that women who terminate such a pregnancy report "significantly more" despair, avoidance, and depression; there are many other studies that show they often develop PTSD, anxiety, or depression.  (The FAQs at the Perinatal Hospice website have more links.) And there's also the ableism inherent in "incompatible with life" diagnoses, which means that many babies who may well have lived are being aborted simply because doctors told their parents it was the appropriate thing to do.  (I've been following the story of this baby with Trisomy 18 on Facebook and with the way his parents have had to fight for treatment every step of the way it makes you wonder how the mortality statistics would be different if doctors treated willingly and promptly.)
I read this review of studies into mental health post-abortion not too long ago. Even while knowing that abortion isn't great for a woman, I was pretty surprised to read about just how bad it can get after abortion. And that's without even wading into the breast-cancer-link controversy. The one and only good thing about abortion being so common seems to be that there is a wealth of data about how awful it is (besides the obvious problem that it kills a person). Edit: managed to find a link to the document www.spuc.org.uk/awh
No one deserves to die because of the sins of their parents. I really don't understand what's so difficult to understand about that.
Does anyone deserve to be forced into pregnancy?
No, which is why rape is also illegal.
So assuming for the sake of discussion, that “deserving” or “undeserving” is an attribute applicable to the unborn, to say that the unborn doesn’t deserve to die only tells half the story about victimhood.  How should we address the woman’s predicament, which she also did not deserve?
By prosecuting the person who put her in that position and providing her with the best possible medical care, including counseling.
But that doesn’t relieve her of her predicament, which she did not deserve.  She’s still pregnant.  If we’re going to rely on the principle of deserving treatment on the issue of abortion, the principle has to be applied fairly to all.
But that doesn't justify murder, either. Seeking justice by unjust means isn't valid in any other situation. There's a difference between inflicting death on the child and being unable to turn back time and relieve a suffering that was unjustly caused. Plus, it is possible to prevent conception by using something like the "morning after" pill. That way, you're preventing a person from being made rather than killing one that already exists. I'm Catholic and believe that contraception is immoral, but there actually is moral justification (even for Catholics) for contraception in the case of rape. Plus, we're not really trying to outlaw contraception, we just don't use it. Plus, others have said it and I'll say it again: if we did limit abortion to cases of rape, that would get rid of 99.9% of abortions. I'd be happy to start there and discuss this particular case another time.
The original argument was - I know this wasn’t originally your argument, but I need to point out that it didn’t rely on the concepts of murder or justice.  By mentioning murder and justice in your response, you effectively change the principles upon which the original argument was based. Also, by characterizing abortion as “unjust means,” your argument becomes circular.  The abortion debate itself concerns whether abortion is just.  The prolife conclusion is that it is unjust.  You can’t use a conclusion as a premise to your own argument. Don’t assume that every rape victim will have access to the morning after pill.  A 13 year old victim probably won’t have the money for it.  Plus, the morning after pill operates, in part, by preventing a fertilized egg from attaching to the uterine wall.  Because the egg may already be fertilized, many view the morning after pill as chemical abortion.
No he doesn't. You quoted euphemistic, idiomatic language. I knew exactly what he meant. A red herring. The thread wasn't about abortion in general, but about abortion in the case of rape. His position is that abortion is murder, thus it remains murder even if the mother was raped. The latter claim has been the one asserted and argued for. Sure he can.
Here is the language I quoted. Explain how this language is euphemistic and idiomatic.  And then explain how its euphemistic and idiomatic characteristics negate my assertion that kazakhstanthetrumpet's mention of murder and justice effectively changed the principles upon which the original argument was based. Her position was that "seeking justice by unjust means isn't valid in any other situation."  That abortion constitutes "unjust means" is either a conclusion to her argument or it is a premise; it's one or the other.  If it's a conclusion, then her argument is circular.  If it's a premise, then she has to make an argument proving that abortion constitutes "unjust means," without reference to whether the abortion in cases of rape is undeserving.  If we go on that path (i.e., debating whether abortion itself is unjust), then we end up removing ourselves entirely from the more narrow scope of Pax_et_Bonum's original argument. She can do whatever she wants.  But if she intends to make a convincing argument free of logical fallacies, then she can't use a conclusion as a premise to her own argument.

If we're debating whether or not abortion is just, then both arguments are circular. Every abortion debate boils down to this: is the unborn a person deserving of rights? If so, every other point is moot. If not, every restriction is pointless. So basically, if we continue, it will come down to the fact that I believe there is no moral difference between the unborn and the born, and you believe that there is an important difference. If you don't believe human life is inherently worthy of protection, then this argument goes nowhere.
Well my argument was that "If we’re going to rely on the principle of deserving treatment on the issue of abortion, the principle has to be applied fairly to all."  It's not circular because I'm not relying on any position on whether abortion is just as a premise. And I think every abortion debate boils down to whether the unborn have, or should have, rights, which is a little broader than "deserving of rights." The original argument, however (and OP hasn't yet decided to participate any further) didn't speak of actors "deserving of rights," rather it was whether the unborn "deserved to die," which utilizes "deserve" in a more general sense.

I think that there are two sides to the question, is the unborn person worthy of rights, and at what point do those rights justify violating the rights of another person... I think if we're discussing it legally that is the question
I'm honestly shocked you haven't been banned by this sub yet for trolling. That's the only thing I could think this is, since you say literally the exact same things to everyone. You have no idea how to construct an actual argument, while accusing everyone you reply to of having a faulty one. Your pseudo-intellectual bullshit is obnoxious, and you really don't come across as you think you do. Also, a conclusion is not a premise, no matter how much you accuse people of using it as such. Just because they didn't lay it out for you (learn to make inferences) doesn't mean their conclusions are their premise.
I entered into this discussion by asking “Does anyone deserve to be forced into pregnancy?” Other people here decided to engage with me in the topic. How is that trolling?
Shouldn't be a surprise, most redditors are the <17 years old edgy types.
If we made the "rape and incest" compromise, we would end 98% of all human abortions in America. I honestly do believe that is a fair compromise. And it would be a huge amount of progress.
I believe any pro-lifer would take that compromise in a heart beat compared to the massacre that's ongoing.
In all fairness, I do believe that abortion should be an option in cases of Rape and when the mothers life is threatened. For rape I would still discourage it very strongly, but it should at least be an option. But allowing it in those two very rare cases does not justify “recreational abortion” where people just don’t think they want the baby they chose to conceive by having sex by choice and then decide they want to murder it to try to undo what they’ve done to themselves. If you have sex willingly and get pregnant, then pro choice people should agree with us. You chose to have a baby when you chose to have sex
I agree with you for the most part. If we as a country could agree to ban all abortions other than the exceptional cases you mentioned, that would be huge progress. I think it's interesting that most people say something like "abortions should be safe, accessible, and rare." Why should they be rare if there are no moral problems with it?
We always like earlier prevention.  We prefer a statin to a stent and a stent to a bypass.  Similarly, we prefer a successful use of contraception to an abortion.
I think we can all agree on that. Similarly, I many pro lifers would prefer abstinence to use of contraception.
Well, I seem to have been downvoted, so I'm not so sure. That's a whole other can of worms regarding how some on this subreddit view what is and is not okay for human sexuality.
I think the only way you can justify abortion in cases of rape is in order for the pro-life message to gain some traction in the culture we would have to make those concessions. Morally speaking though, I think abortion in rape really is no different than any other abortion. Of course, the woman isn't responsible for the procreative act which resulted in the baby but it doesn't follow she can kill it or detach from it such that it leads to its death. The baby is a child and rational capable adults owe to children and handicapped adults a minimal care even if you've been forced to provide such care. I think that because women have the biology which is receptive for carrying a baby to term they should carry it to term even in rape just like you should be compelled to care for an infant dropped at your doorstep and charged with homicide if you left the infant die or pretend that you don't owe it anything. This is clear and intuitive if you imagine that an infant is dropped at a door of a woman who is lactating. It seems pretty obvious to me that she should feed that child if there is no other food source available and even if it causes her pretty major discomfort to do so.
Your absolutely right. Radical change is almost never supported by the masses, but we can achieve the same goal in many small, mild, not radical steps towards a larger goal over a longer period of time.

Actually, sex is how you make a baby, so you shouldn’t be surprised when you have sec and then get pregnant. If you chose to have sex when you don’t want to be pregnant, then you are accepting the risk of pregnancy, most importantly you are choosing to accept that risk and therefore also choosing to be pregnant and become a parent should you get pregnant. You can’t blame anyone except yourself for your pregnant if you choose to have sex. It’s all on you
I can't tell if you're being serious or not

You didn't explain anything...?

I think you were attempting irony, but it didn't really work because you used a factually incorrect statement to do it.
The "honest man" part, huh? You could never get a man to be honest about intercourse and his desire for pregnancy and parenthood....
No the other part. But actually also that too. It would be easier to make a point about something if you just explained yourself instead of using weird sarcastic comments that don't make any sense.
There's nothing to explain. The truth of matter stands alone and it's literally so foreign to you that you cannot comprehend the words.

That's the dumbest thing I've ever read considering sex is where babies come from.
"Whoa, dude, I only consented to playing baseball! Fix your own window!"
It's tacitly consenting to the risk of pregnancy or parenthood. If you commit to an action and the potential consequences are known you can't really say you didn't agree to those consequences. If you didn't agree to said potential outcomes then you shouldn't have taken that course of action.

I'm not really sure that they know what the word violence means...
Hmm, I wonder what they would say to the female children that are being murdered.
The UN can go bite me
The UN says and does a lot of ridiculous things.
Does the UN expect us to care what they think?
TIL, it is violence against women to not kill them.
UN: relevant since...
The UN can come here to my house and I'll treat it very nice
Is today Opposite Day?
Has the UN really become an organization dedicated to member-shaming?
What about violence against the unborn babies they are carrying?  Mmmm.... I'm normally a proponent for the UN and the PEACEKEEPING that they do, but severe boo to this stance.

Good article! Most aborted humans aren't even fetuses (I liked he pointed this out toward the end), they're embryos. This was what led me to first question the pro-choice movement. I realized that if they couldn't even use correct terminology it would be irresponsible to accept everything they said without question.
I like the term "fetal human," I may use that from now on. It's interesting to me that the author recommends maybe at some point asking if the pro-choicer means a human fetus or some other species, but also says not to get too caught up in terminology. The reason this is interesting to me is because 99% of my discussions are about what the human fetus is, not why abortion is right or wrong. It seems like until we can agree on what we're dealing with, we can't have a rational discussion about the morality of abortion, yet most people don't seem to have the slightest clue what they advocate killing.

This is a newly published paper that explores the consequences of adopting psychological accounts of persons. An overview can be found here. The paper is open access until the end of March.
Also watch this this: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5ER4v3Va4ro

Hopefully Governor Justice will sign.
Sounds like a superhero name.

Bad Bot
Bad bot
Thank you russiabot1776 for voting on alternate-source-bot. This bot wants to find the best and worst bots on Reddit. You can view results here. Even if I don't reply to your comment, I'm still listening for votes. Check the webpage to see if your vote registered!

Good job 👏🏼
So he's been officially excommunicated?
No, at least not in this declaration. Under can. 915 of the Code of Canon Law, he may not be given Holy Communion because of manifest public sin on his part. That being said, an argument can be made that he has incurred latæ sententiæ excommunication for heresy; however, among other things, this requires assumptions about his level of understanding of Catholic doctrine and other matters of the internal forum that may or may not be valid.


Good article. Pro-life Dems don't get enough recognition.
There are hardly any of them. One governor (in a super red state), no senators, 2 congressmen and a few state legislators. That's the entire pro life Democrat wing.
I wasn't just counting politicians.
Two senators, Manchin and Casey
Joe "I stand with Planned Parenthood" Manchin? The only thing pro life about Casey these days is his daddy. He votes with Planned Parenthood well over 70% of the time.
Both voted for the 20 week abortion ban
They are still very reliable votes for Planned Parenthood. Joe Manchin votes with them 57% of the time (6% for his Republican colleague). Bob Casey is even worse at 75% (0% for Republican colleague).
Donnelly (D Indiana) is a senator and a pro-life democrat
It's good for re-election and that's about it for him. He votes with Planned Parenthood 70% of the time (compared to 0% for his Republican colleague) and voted to force the states to fund abortion providers. He needs to go. https://www.plannedparenthoodaction.org/congressional-scorecard#IN/ if you don't believe me.
On the other hand, the Dem-Party heads didn't like you...
Pro Life Democrats are just useful for electing crazy pro abortion politicians. If you vote for a Democrat apart from in your local dogcatcher election then you are supporting absolutely radical candidates who would be rejected even in countries like France which are very liberal on abortion.
That's quite a judgment to make, buut okay. You act as if pro-life Democratic candidates do not exist at any level.
A few left over Dixiecrats who forgot to switch Republican, one guy in Minnesota who's district voted for Trump by 31 points and a few "pro life" senators who vote with Planned Parenthood 60%+ the time.
Is this code for the actively pro-life Democratic candidates you refuse to acknowledge?
No. Southern Democrats who are conservative on literally everything and represent what are now totally Republican constituencies in every other way. They're a tiny proportion of the party's politicians and are dying out.
Objectively false. JBE is most definitely not a Dixiecrat. Dixiecrats were notorious for being incredibly racist and refusing to champion the civil rights movement (hence why they switched to Republican, states rights activists aren't necessarily racist but, in theory, wouldn't force them to comply with civil rights legislation). JBE is already hated by many of the Republicans there for being a Democrat in  virtually ever way but with gun and abortion policy. Everyone knew what they were in for; he technically only won because the Republican candidate was caught up in a sex scandal, and many Republicans sat the election out. However, he's proving to be the best of both worlds for the many pro-life Democrats in LA.
Dixiecrat now means Southern Conservative Democrat. There's a fair few still lurking in state chambers in states like Mississippi and when those representatives retire or leave they will be replaced by Republicans.
Virtually no one in the South, ESPECIALLY not African-Americans, uses that term because it's so deeply associated with racism (I was born and raised in the South, so I know). Confederate flag-waving, unadulterated racism. Just writing off every counterexample by saying "they're dixiecrats lolz" is disingenuous and your way of refusing to a admit that you were wrong. Nice try, though. I am a pro-life, Catholic, southern-raised  Democrat. I was raised that way and many of my peers were as well. And we would rather be caught dead than be associated with those racist Dixiecrat scumbags. For you, it's clearly nothing more than  a buzzword used to justify hating on pro-life Christians. Edit: words
I'm not from the south just replace dixiecrat with Conservative Democrat (a nascent part of the party). Even in states like Montana and North Dakota (extremely pro life and Republican) they still run radical candidates with 100% Planned parenthood records.
Nowhere in these statements do I see "except for in the South." Did you accidentally leave that out? My entire point is that you made an inaccurate generalization that has clear, tangible counterexamples. I'm not denying that pro-choice Democrats are run in very conservative places (I think that's a terrible choice on the Democratic party's part, you're essentially screwing over the rest of your ideals by only focusing on one in places where people are vehemently against it. One thing that sets the Republican party apart is that they're more pragmatic and willing to moderate their views somewhat if it means winning a Democratic-leaning district, state, etc.) You made a bold statement, and I chose to refute it. It's that simple. Edit: spacing
If you vote for any Democrat Senator or Governor you are voting for abortion. If you vote for any Democrat congressman except 2 (Collin Peterson and Dan Lipinski) you are voting for abortion. If you vote for 80% of Democrat state legislators you are voting for abortion.
Please look up John Bel Edwards and then get back to me. I remember him because I took a trip to Louisiana a few years back. Can't wait to see what excuse you'll use to write him off.
Again. Dixiecrat. If you actually look at significant politicians in congress (not just aging dixiecrats in the South) you find that the average Democrat in congress votes with Planned Parenthood roughly 90% of the time (vast majority are 100% with some very minor exceptions). The average Republican votes with Planned Parenthood some 10% of the time (moderate "Republicans" in Maine and Alaska really bump up the number). I know that pro life Democrats were a force in the past (my former senator was one). But we aren't living in 2008 anymore and they aren't a big force.

It is a little odd in it’s politically correct language. Using the word “pregnant parent” instead of “mother” or “woman” doesn’t sound natural, but in our safe space oriented culture I can see why a video might choose to do that. It’s overall tone kind of admires pregnancy as the awesome biological feat that it is, and doesn’t read as leaning one way or the other towards abortion.
While super clunky and unnecessarily PC, "pregnant parent" at least acknowledges that a pregnant woman is already a parent, not a future/potential parent.
I don't feel like the video was trying to make any political statements. I get that it didn't introduce an emotional or sentimental aspect to anything, but it's a science video so I feel that is appropriate .
https://np.reddit.com/r/washingtondc/comments/7rqqb1/did_they_bus_in_all_those_kids_for_the_anti/vshttps://np.reddit.com/r/washingtondc/comments/7zglxh/crowds_of_teens_at_union_station_headed_to_the_us/Teenage protesters are the greatest threat to--and asset to--American democracy
Amazing. It really goes to show that with the Left, for all their identity politics, it doesn't matter if you're rich, poor, young, old, black or yellow, as long as you toe their line completely. Otherwise you are literally Hitler.
Sadly hilarious
Really activates the old almonds

Wanting to save innocent lives. Yeah, same exact thing as the Taliban.
Please, someone tell me this is satire; my irony detector just broke. If a woman were to lock her children in her car, then blow up the car with the kids locked inside, she could, using pro-choice logic say "My car, my choice", because the car was hers, and no pro-choicer could compare her with the Taliban without first having to admit that the reason they're making the comparison is that, despite the fact that the car is her property, and  regardless of being dependent on their parents for food and clothing, the children still living human beings whom it is inherently morally wrong to kill.

Hi all. I am going to present my views on current arguments in favor of the legality and morality of guns--specifically automatic, semi-automatic, or self-loading rifles-- and the parallels I see to arguments used in favor of the legality and morality of abortion. I wrote this VERY technically and devoid of real emotional influence. Of course, emotions are part of what makes humans human. There are emotional arguments and appeals to be made over the gun control debate, but this is a logical and ethical appeal. Also, many people in the conservative, Republican, or alt-right groups reject and mock emotional appeals immediately, and I believe it's most productive and good to avoid immediate rejection and mockery.Here we go:There are a few often-cited reasons for the legality and use of guns in the US: hunting, protection/ safety, fun, and so that guns could be used to prevent unjust government takeovers. Modern automatic, semi-automatic, or self-loading firearms, like AR-15s, are usually defended by the following three arguments:"Americans have the right to use these weapons and we need these weapons in order to  prevent tyrannical government takeover.""Americans have the right to use these weapons and we need these weapons in order to maintain personal and family safety in the event of an attack or threat, and living in this safety is a comfort to us.""Americans have the right to own these weapons and we need these weapons because shooting these weapons is fun and taking care of these weapons is a hobby/ tradition."If a person uses the arguments 2 and 3-- personal safety/ comfort against perceived threats and personal enjoyment/ hobbyism, respectively-- to excuse and justify the continued legality of semi-automatic/ self-loading weapons, despite mass carnage and loss of innocent life, I see unfortunate parallels to arguments used by pro-abortion advocates.An argument often used to defend the legality and morality of abortion is "Gestating, birthing, and raising a child does not agree with my personal senses of comfort and safety. My right to comfort and safety is more important than a fetus' supposed right to life." This argument is more often phrased something like, "Having a baby isn't in my life plan right now, and I am the one who gets to decide how I live my life. It's my life and my choice how to live it."Another argument used to defend the legality and morality of abortion is, "Having sex is not an act of consent to creating and having a child, and sex should not be hampered or punished. My right to enjoy myself sexually is more important than a fetus' supposed right to life." This argument is more often phrased something like, "Sex is a human right, and women should not be punished for having sex!"Arguments 2 and 3 for gun ownership ("my safety!" and "my fun!") and my two example arguments for abortion ("my comfort!" and "my fun!") present the same moral idea: one person's right to comfort/safety and pleasure/fun is more important than other people's right to life, and thus, the rights to comfort/safety or pleasure/fun should be defended legally.Supporting this moral viewpoint on one issue and opposing this moral viewpoint on another issue is hypocritical. Because many conservative/ Republican/ alt-right support pro-gun legality/ morality and anti-abortion legality/ morality, and because these are issues of immense discussion perceived importance, these conservative groups are hypocritical and thus amoral.I cannot stand, in good conscience, with groups that support one person's right to comfort/ enjoyment over others' rights to life. I believe that no other people can, in good conscience, stand with those groups, and I believe that we, the people of the pro-life movement, must fight against the continued legal protections of semi-automatic/auto-loading weapons.I welcome other comments, additions, or rebuttals. I am trying to keep this discussion as civil as possible, and I hope that anyone making a rebuttal will do the same.
I am pro-life and pro-gun (to an extent), and I believe there are some key differences in the logic of those who are pro-gun and those who are pro-choice. First off, I’ve never heard of anyone defending the right to own a semi-automatic rifle for the sake of fun/hobbies. I’ve heard them call gun-ownership fun and a hobby, but never as a defense of their right. Second, pretty much all gun owners think they should only be allowed to shoot another person if someone else’s life is in danger and lethal defense is the only option. This is not comparable to abortions on demand, perhaps only abortions in cases where the mother’s life is significantly at risk. Third, no gun owner wants anyone to use a gun to kill the innocent. In fact, no gun owner wants anyone to use a gun to kill the guilty unless absolutely necessary. From my perspective it seems that gun owners are also in favor of restricting who can get a semi-auto rifle as long as perfectly peaceful law-abiding citizens can still obtain them Fourth, owning a gun extremely rarely leads to a human’s death, but abortion always does. Also, the number of people that die from ARs in a year is infinitesimal whereas abortions have killed more people than all American wars combined. Fifth, allowing abortions means directly allowing the murder of a human being. Allowing guns only increases the risk of someone dying. We weigh the benefits with this risk when deciding whether or not to allow guns, understanding that some people are going to die because of it. It’s not ideal, but we do that with a lot of things. Take cars for example. Cars will kill vastly more people than guns every year, but we weigh the convenience of cars with the number of lives that will probably be lost due to them and decide that it’s worth it. Like with guns, we limit who can and can’t use them to reduce the risks, but we don’t outlaw them completely. I too welcome civil comments.
Arguing in favor of guns is not arguing that one person's rights are more important than another. Simply owning a gun harms no one, and proponents only plan to use them against criminals. Abortion necessarily kills an innocent person. I don't think those two positions are anything alike.
My only comment is that I completely agree with you. And that you will be brigaded by downvotes from people who think that pro-life automatically=conservative.
Pro-lifers aren't asking for forceps to be banned, though. The analogous movement would be outlawing school shootings.
https://pics.me.me/omg-how-can-you-be-prolife-and-pro-gun-like-27136962.png

Youtube is garbage
And getting worse by the day. It is septic to say the least.
Definitely wish something new comes along.
that channel is pure propaganda

“Let me get this straight... two humans reproduced to create something that’s a non-human? What species is it then? An alpaca?”
Fetus isn't a species it's a stage of life. If you just say 'fetus' it's not enough information to know what kind of being we're talking about. You need a species modifier, like dog fetus, cat fetus, or, in the case you're probably discussing, a human fetus. People act like the word fetus exists outside species, as though a dog and human fetus are the same because they're both a fetus. That's unscientific nonsense. The person you're talking to was a fetus at some point, but so was my cat. The difference is that person was a human fetus. My cat was a cat fetus. Pretty big distinction.
I would just respond with, “that’s an unscientific opinion and isn’t up for debate.”  If they keep going, disengage.
Tell them it has unique human dna and ask them what else it could be. That’s the first response
You turn around and walk away because they're an idiot and likely will not listen to anything you have to say.
I think my first question would be, "is there any condition which would change your mind from the position you already hold?" If the answer is no, then they're looking for a fight and not a discussion. Also: Are you then a prolife AnCap ala tom woods?
I always ask, at what point does a fetus become a human. They will probably trap themselves in a box of hypocrisy after that.
Is it a Homo Sapien. If so, a fetus is a human.
Link them to this.
One fun game you can play is to get them to tell you when they think a fetus becomes human. Then walk them back just a little, when the "fetus" is still in essentially the same developmental stage, and press them again. Often they will agree that the fetus is a human at that point as well. Then walk them back just a bit more from there. You can repeat this process a surprisingly long ways back into development. Essentially they will either have to admit that the basic elements of human life are present startlingly early or they will have to resort to rhetorical tricks or outright derailing to continue their position.
Here's the list of candidates in 2018's Judicial elections:Arizona:John Pelander - YES Clint Bolick - YESCalifornia:Carol Corrigan - YES Leondra Kruger - NOColorado:Richard Gabriel - NOFlorida:Fred Lewis - NO Barbara Pariente - NO Peggy Quince - NO C. Alan Lawson - YESIllinois:Anne M. Burke - NOIndiana:Geoffrey Slaughter - YESMaryland:Sally Adkins - NO Joseph Getty - YESMissouri:Mary Rhodes Russell - NO Wesley Brent Powell - YESNebraska:Stephanie Stacy - YESNew Mexico:Charles Daniels - NO Petra Jimenez Maes - NOOklahoma:James Edmondson - YES Yvonne Kauger - NO Noma D. Gurich - NO Patrick Wyrick - YESSouth Dakota:Janine M. Kern - YESUtah:Deno Himonas - YESWyoming:Kate M. Fox - YES Keith G. Kautz - YES
We have a real opportunity to change the make up in some states dramatically.
What do the No and Yes refer to here?
Retention elections. There isn't another candidate standing but the state votes on whether they want that judge to carry on or be replaced. YES is to keep them on and NO is a vote to replace them.


Here is a list of threads in other subreddits about the same content: I am a bot FAQ-Code-Bugs-Suggestions-Block user (op only)-Block from subreddit (mods only) Now you can remove the comment by replying delete! (op only)
If you live in Wisconsin then there is an election TODAY! Make sure you vote for Judge Michael Screnock in the Supreme Court Primary (top 2 candidates are selected to run in general and Screnock MUST be in top 2)!If you need information on where your polling station is then check here: https://myvote.wi.gov/en-US/FindMyPollingPlace
We did it! Screnock has received 46% of the vote and WILL be in the general election along with Pro Abortion Rebecca Dallet.

Absolutely, human bodies must be treated with respect, not desecrated.
I hold the probably unpopular view that derives from Ben Shapiro’s view: if it’s a person you can’t do anything with it; if it’s not a person you can do whatever you want with it.
Yeah but it's probably not a great idea to torture animals so......
This is referring just to the unborn humans
That makes no sense because all humans are persons. So you must be referring to non-humans.
I am not referring to nonhumans, you’re just answering the question. The hypothetical question is, “Are the unborn persons?” If you answer yes, then you can’t do anything with them. If you answer no, then you can do whatever you want with them. The answer is yes, so you can do nothing with them, but not everyone believes it. For consistencies sake, however, anyone who believes it is not a person should not care what we do with it. The point is to make this a black and white issue and remove the gray area
It was my understanding you were saying this was fine because you can do whatever you want with them. I thought it was a twisted use of Shapiro's logic. Thanks for clarifying.
Planned Parenthood will fight anything that could threaten their cash-cow.

Exposing how crazy the Democrats are is the ONLY way to defeat them.
In fairness that's easily turned around on nearly every Republican that doesn't like abortion but does NOTHING to stop school shooters.
That's simply not true. Democrats insist that "doing something" must only consist of more and more gun control, with no room for compromise or alternative solutions. Arming teachers and improving mental health is not "NOTHING", and we already have lots of laws restricting guns.
Arming teachers is the worst idea ever.   Having guns in the classroom period is the worst idea ever--- and improving mental health?  Hahaha.... Republicans don't want to pay for any type of health care, especially mental health.   It was Ronald Reagan that closed almost all of the mental institutions and turned all the mentally ill in to homeless people. What exactly are the Republicans proposing to do about "improving mental health"???? I hear them say the words, as a "talking point", but what is their actual plan?
It is not the same in terms of matter or in scope. That is basically like saying I can't be for cutting drunk driving fatalities without also wanting to decrease shark attacks. They are unrelated and one is a hell of a lot more common. Do not get me wrong, school shootings are appalling, but they are severely overemphasized by the media. Abortion is an industry geared at slaughtering kids. To put it in perspective, we had ~345 people killed in mass shooting events last year. That is a high number for what it is, make no mistake. But that is less than 1 person killed a day, on average. To put that in perspective, a child is aborted in America about once every minute (and that is a pretty conservative estimate).

I fail to see where it mentions his motives. I wouldn’t assume it’s because he’s pro-life, and indeed he is not pro-life. He may be anti-abortion but his values could not be based on compassion, but on pride and hatred. He does not represent the pro-life movement
I was just in r/prochoice and saw this article listed. After stating that I am Pro-life but do not agree with what this man has done, an r/abortion Mod suggested I post it here to see what you all think of it. So...what are your thoughts on this r/prolife?
Jesus, I just looked at that thread. They actually believe most of us support this kind of behavior... My god they're delusional
Unfortunately it's what ever sounds good and fits their narrative that gets pushed there, vs what is true about pro-lifers.
I’m impressed that an /r/abortion mod sincerely wanted to know our take instead of immediately lumping us in with this guy.
She seemed rather skeptical Consider posting this link on /r/prolife decrying it. See what comments you get in your community.
Oh :/ nevermind
That mod is known for trolling us so I'm sure it's not sincerity. Probably wants to find someone supporting the guy.
Here's a sneak peek of /r/abortion using the top posts of the year! #1: I hope this helps someone | 6 comments#2: My Medical Abortion Failed#3: I had my abortion today. I'm a bot, beep boop | Downvote to remove | Contact ^^me | ^^Info | ^^Opt-out
Pro-lifers do not support this at all. I think it's horrible and it does nothing good for our cause.
One reason why I really admire Martin Luther King Jr. and simultaneously strongly dislike Malcolm X is their respective stances on violence. Using violence to spread your message, especially one fighting against violence is baffling to me. One instantly loses all credibility.
Absolutely. An evil act can never be justified, even when done for a good cause.
No one was even hurt, just a bit of damage to the waiting room ffs. I'm sure they'll be using this as propaganda while they tear apart babies.
It says people were hurt. Several people sustained minor injuries. Plus he could have killed someone, crashing into this building during business hours. While I am glad the abortuary is temporarily closed, I cannot condone this man's action, as it is against the pro-life cause. All he has really done is put a hole in a building and incited propaganda against life, plus stealing and damaging a truck.

Democrats are just the political arm of Planned Parenthood at this point. Every single one is so radical on the issue that they put even some of the most extreme Pro Abortion advocates to shame.
If you're referring to Dem politicians, this is mostly accurate though there are some pro-life dem politicians. But a third of dems are actually pro-life so... I would be careful generalizing.
And they are electing crazy pro abortion politicians. This third are just useful for winning elections.
Hi! Pro-life Dem here. Would appreciate some less sweeping generalizations. About 1 in 4 Democrats think abortion should be illegal in most/all cases. The party leaders unfortunately don't understand this, but if enough pro-life Democrats feel they have the ability to run publicly under a pro-life stance and win, that could change. The problem right now is a lot of Dems (and Republicans for that matter) are in a bubble. We constantly hear "prolifers don't care about protecting life (as demonstrated by other Republican positions) they only want to control women!" What we need is more pro-life people to join the conversation on the Democratic side and pop that bubble. Show them what prolife (for the whole life!) people actually think!
Apart from one single congressman who is currently being primaried to death. EVERY single Democrat in congress. In the senate there are no pro life dems (Joe Manchin and Joe Donnelly have 60% ratings from Planned Parenthood so i'm not counting that as pro life for a second). Every single Democrat governor is also pro abortion. Maybe in 2008 there were a few pro life dems but those days are long gone (my old senator was a pro life dem but he retired).
They're just towing the party line. Politics in general are becoming more polarized, not just the democrats.
Towing the party line is one thing when you're talking about welfare or social issues, but another thing entirely when people are being purposely killed on demand. Personally, aside from pro-life, I tend to prefer the mainstream Republican view on things like government overreach and identity politics, but I'm not blind to how ridiculous the leadership has become.  About the only thing that makes actually voting for a pro-life moderate Dem right now impossible for me is that they will caucus with the vast majority of pro-abort Dems who are now not only in favor of abortion-on-demand, it is now part of their platform to remove the Hyde Amendment and force taxpayer funded abortions. If I was a pro-life Dem, I don't think I could stay a Democrat now that they have even dropped the pretense of compromise.  I'd have to find another party.
Yeah the abortion issue is pretty polarized. All the pro life politicians are on one side (Republican) and all the the pro abortion side are on the other (Democrat).
It's because they're scared. I guarantee you some of those people don't feel comfortable being "pro-choice," but they feel like they have to be because this idea that "all Democrats are pro-choice" is being pushed by both sides.
No they aren't. Heidi Heitkamp (Dem-ND) represents one of the most pro life states in the country and yet consistently get's 100% scores from Planned Parenthood.
The Democrat party leadership has made it 100% clear that pro lifers aren't welcome in the party unless they take the "I don't like abortion but I will 100% support it anyway" stance.
This is not its intent.  Abortions, even late-term abortions, remain safer for the pregnant person than continuing to carry a pregnancy with a goal of live birth. Unfortunately, that is not an accurate description of the bill.  The bill does not permit abortions past twenty weeks if the mother's life is at risk.  It permits abortions past twenty weeks if necessary to save the life of the mother.  These are radically different choices in language.  It also contains no exceptions for fetal anomalies. Additionally, polling on abortion is tricky.  Asking a question "should abortion be banned after twenty weeks, unless the mother's life is at risk?" and "should women who find severe fetal anomalies at their twenty week ultrasound be allowed to get an abortion?" will (I think) both get majority-affirmative answers, even though they lead to conflicting answers on whether or not this bill is supported by the American public. The above comment contains neither pro-choice nor pro-life content.
Safer for the mother but deadly for the baby
I'm aware that most here would like abortion to be illegal at all gestational ages.  This article makes false statements about the bill's intent; your comment does nothing to defend the article.
My comment is in response to your language which frames abortion as "safer". It has nothing to do with the legal status of abortion.



Her head is enormous.
Did you just assume it's gender?
STOP FAT SHAMING ME REEEEEEEEEEEE
I've yet to see a dank prolife meme that I don't like.
Brutal.
So wrong but so right.
I'm not a fan of this sort of humor. Also, I don't think this is a topic fit for humor of any kind. Babies are dying out there, and we're being passively spiteful against Cecile Richards who isn't going to be remotely affected by this. What benefit does this bring beyond inflating the egos of people already on our side and making them smugly complacent with the status quo?
As I said in the OP, I personally despise these "jokes". It was not meant to be a joke, neither I nor anyone else is laughing at this. That being said, nothing we post on social media will change Cecile, she is heavily invested in her death Mills. This meme was not made to change Cecile, it was made to grab the attention of the fence sitters and reevaluate their passive or tacit support of those death Mills. One great things that memes do, is convey a message, they can deliver that message with some shock value. Dank memes are not for everyone, but it is the medium by which messaging is received by the millennials, who are the Target audience.
I share essays and long-form on social media, not garbage like this. My criticism is not just about the immaturity of the content; it's about the one-sided nature of the communication. Effective communication in the public service involves inviting (and not alienating) persuasion toward those who do not presently agree. Analysis and well-thought-out opinions are what will change the minds of fence-sitters, but content like this will only contribute to chest-puffing on our side and contribute to an information bubble wherein pro-life people will laugh for only a brief moment, become blasé about the content shortly after, and all the while delude themselves into thinking they are making some kind of a difference through their passivity. In reality—outside of that bubble—the other side is rapidly mobilizing through active, informed advocacy and legislative lobbying. All I do when I see them is put my palm to my face and shudder. I don't like serious things being dealt without their deserved sense of gravity. Being a millennial doesn't excuse me from treating ideas like commodities. (By the way, it is not the medium by which we receive messaging. There are plenty of other media, and arguably even more effective ones.)
r/iamverysmart should be your landing page. You should also study up and starting living with deep understanding of Dunning-Kruger effect.
In what way am I trying to sound smarter than I actually am? I don't make any attempt at pushing "smarts" and I certainly have never used "smarts" to show off (like the people featured on that subreddit often do).
You should go watch Dr. Jordan Peterson's lectures and Q&As.
title.
Hello. It is I, Mr. Clump-of-Cells Man.
We're literally all clumps of cells.
but we are sentinent.
Ok but this is what you just did: You: Point A Me: Point A makes no sense You: But Point B Like, maybe point B is a valid point, but it doesn't make much sense to just jump from one to the other as if you never even brought up Point A in the first place.
it would be saying that we are more valuable since we are sentient life.
"Point B"
Better not go to sleep or get in a coma!
Yes, the point is that they made an argument, you refuted it, and they didn't counter your rebuttal, they just made an entirely new argument. You can tell it is an entirely new argument when you could have started the entire conversation based on the sentience argument and completely ignored the clump of cells thing.
Again. His is a debate on its own. It is unrelated to point A: “it’s just a clump of cells.”
But the question wasn't "What is your retort against, 'but it isn't sentinent.'".
https://www.lifesitenews.com/pulse/science-confirms-that-human-life-begins-at-fertilization Also every living thing is literally a clump of cells, so they would be correct in saying that it’s a clump of cells. No way to debate that part.
I think “clump” refers to the lack of specialization among the cells.  What start off as cells with no specialization eventually become blood cells, nerves, skin cells, bone cells, etc.  So to say that every living thing is a “clump” of cells isn’t entirely accurate.
It is entirely accurate. Inferences on what "clump of cells" should convey are completely subjective. Meanwhile the actual meaning of the words are conveying something accurate.
Clump is defined as “a group of things clustered together.”  A cluster is a number of similar things that occur together.  To the extent that an organism’s cells lack specialization, they constitute a clump, because the cells are similar.  Specialization, however, recharacterizes the cells which constitute the unborn from similar to dissimilar.  Thus, even when referencing the “actual meaning” of the words, not every living thing is a clump of cells.
A cluster can also be defined as: Cells of a grown organism are still close together. You don't get to pick one specific definition, ignore the rest, and then insist the object doesn't qualify based on the definition you happened to choose. Even if we were restricted to the one definition you picked, it's clear that cells of a grown human organism are very similar in that all have identical genetic coding. So only in one particular subjective interpretation of "cluster of cells" does it maybe not apply to both an embryo and grown organism. In a multitude of others, it applies easily. So yes, it is entirely accurate to say we are clumps of cells.
Don’t re-contextualize my comment.  What I said was And if you found a broader definition of cluster that’s fine.  Depending on one’s definition not every living thing is a clump of cells,
Right, the context of your comment was a rigid subjective interpretation of "cluster." That alone fails to contradict the statement that ""clumps of cells" is an accurate description of a grown human organism." If there are applicable definitions, and there are, then this is still an accurate description.
It wasn’t a subjective definition.  I linked to a merriam-webster definition.  It was their definition, not mine.  Are all dictionary definitions now subjective?
It was a subjective interpretation of a definition involving the word "similar." Please read.
No it wasn’t a subjective interpretation.  I contextualized the word “similar,” and I made it very clear that I did so.  Contextualizing a word is not the same thing as applying a subjective interpretation of a definition.

"when does a clump of cells become a person?" Also consider: the risk of being wrong about it
So is your question whether we refute it's a clump of cells or whether refute it is sentient? You're asking two different questions.
no im saying what do you say in response to that
no im just like progressing the conversation. im replying how someone reply in an acutal debate on the topic.
That's not how debates work. The answer is "we're all clumps of cells." You don't change to terms of the problem because the answer is unsatisfying.  If you would like to also ask why sentience makes a difference in regards to the value of said cells, that would be another question you could ask. You cant just do a 180 and refute the answer you were given by retroactively changing the terms.
then answer the question.
It's hard to get people over that hump when they really haven't bothered to learn about basic human growth and development and just basic human gestation.   I literally think these uneducated people think it's "just a bunch of cells" right up until like the 7th or 8th month, then it magically turns in to a baby. It's not an accident.  Democrats tout themselves as "The Party of Education and Science".  Funny how they avoid both topics on this issue. I specifically remember the day I quit watching Melissa Harris-Perry, she said “When does life begin? I submit the answer depends an awful lot on the feeling of the parents. A powerful feeling – but not science,” Huh?
I usually say, "So am I. Should you be allowed to kill me?"
so then theyd say "well you are a conscious being"
What about people who are asleep? What about people in a coma? What about people who are brain damaged? Is it ok to kill them? Obviously not. Why are we not discussing the eating of seeds? They are a clump of cells "in utero" that we kill for various reasons every day. We don't have an issue there because a seed will never grow into anything sentient. A human embryo will. That's a huge difference. https://youtu.be/RDmwPGrZkYs
sadly I often get “yes” if I ask should we be able to kill brain damaged people.
What if you knew a brain damaged person would completely recover in 9 months? Would it still be ok?
i like this response, thank you
That's because what they're doing is arguing for personhood, you're arguing for human life. There's a distinct difference, /u/Playtz just sort of explains it more.
Which is a different argument, though probably the one you meant to make in the first place. Their best argument is to say that we can distinguish a clear moral difference between a sentient/conscious/self-aware being and an unaware simple organic mass. A fetus before a certain age most resembles the organic mass we would all agree bears no human rights, so therefore the fetus has no rights. We should then challenge that argument by asserting that there is no established reason for sentience, consciousness, or self awareness to grant human rights. The burden lies on the one making this claim that sentience (et al, shortened hereafter) creates humanness for a long list of reasons that won’t all fit here, and ought to have been established before this point in the conversation anyway. Regardless, there are examples of organic masses lacking sentience that we call human and do not deny rights—coma patients being the primary example. They then argue that the coma patient was once sentient, and they just maintain their humanness because it cannot be removed once granted. You ask why and assert this argument is illogical and contrived. They argue we do in fact treat coma patients differently by letting their agents decide whether to keep them alive, we argue that the differences are not relevant because it is still illegal to murder a coma patient, they argue the situations are identical, we argue otherwise...and it gets murky from there.
So? There's a span of (ideally) 7 hours every night, during which I am very much not a conscious being. Is it ok to kill me, then?
Or they would say “you’re not a clump because your cells have gone through the process of specialization.”  I think “clump” refers to the lack of specialization among the cells.  What start off as cells with no specialization eventually become blood cells, nerves, skin cells, bone cells, etc.  So to say that the post-born are “clumps” of cells isn’t entirely accurate. Of course, you can respond that that clump in the womb doesn’t remain a clump for very long.
And by the time anyone knows they are pregnant, the cells are already specialized and in form that looks pretty human. Differentiation, or specialization, begins around 4 day post fertilization. That's why I don't think specialization is the problem. Most people don't even realize thats a thing. So if they refer to a fetus that has nerve cells, skins cells, muscle cells, etc, as a clump of cells, then it would be just as appropriate to also call an adult a clump of cells.
That argument does not work against birth control pills to the extent that they prevent implantation of a fertilized egg. And the pro-choice argument would be that specialization is a process that continues up to week 30 when the brain develops.  Specialization is a gradual process; supposing that it is true that it merely begins at day 4, that may not be sufficient to say that the being has sufficiently transitioned away from being a “clump” at that point.  No where is it written that a clump can’t have at least some specialization. I don’t like the clump argument myself.  There is no agreed upon authority who can decide the precise moment when the clump period ends and, in any case, at least during the latter stages of gestation the fetus is clearly less clump than clump.
That doesn't say the brain develops at 30 weeks. It develops extremely early. Also cells continue to differentiate into adulthood. Also no one mentioned birth control. I have no problem with birth control.
Again, I don’t ever make the clump argument.  I’m just hypothesizing how that argument would play out.
Development refer to growth in the same way adults are still developing until 25. It doesn't mean that they don't have a brain prior to that. If someone legitimately made that argument I would discount them as not having researched what they are talking about so we don't really need to hypothesize it.
Do you have a source for this?
"Neuron production in humans begins on embryonic day 42. E42, i.e. 42 days post conception (Bystron et al. 2008; Stiles 2008) and is largely complete by midgestation. As they are produced neurons migrate to different brain areas where they begin to make connections with other neurons establishing rudimentary neural networks" "In just the fifth week after conception, the first synapses begin forming in a fetus's spinal cord. By the sixth week, these early neural connections permit the first fetal movements--spontaneous arches and curls of the whole body--that researchers can detect through ultrasound imaging. Many other movements soon follow--of the limbs (around eight weeks) and fingers (ten weeks), as well as some surprisingly coordinated actions (hiccuping, stretching, yawning, sucking, swallowing, grasping, and thumb-sucking). By the end of the first trimester, a fetus's movement repertoire is remarkably rich, even though most pregnant women can feel none of it. The second trimester [week 12] marks the onset of other critical reflexes: continuous breathing movements (that is, rhythmic contractions of the diaphragm and chest muscles) and coordinated sucking and swallowing reflexes." /u/lfpod

https://www.urmc.rochester.edu/encyclopedia/content.aspx?ContentTypeID=1&ContentID=3051

Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prenatal_development HelperBot v1.1 /r/HelperBot_ I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 150316
Also, getting a little Aristotelian here, the “clump of cells” in utero is in line with its natural order. Humans are supposed to begin as clumps of unspecialized cells in utero. It is right for them to be this way, and that is why that clump of cells does indeed develop and specialize to become a more recognizable form of human. It follows that the clump of unspecialized cells is still human and deserves the same basic rights as any other human because it is “behaving” according to its proper nature.
Again, I don’t like the clump argument, I don’t argue it.  But your argument has this conclusory principle that by no measure enjoys general acceptance.  Specifically there is no general acceptance of the proposition that all beings human that “behave” according to their proper nature “deserve” the same rights that post-born humans enjoy.  In addition, what you speak of is human rights, and the precise scope of human rights is itself the subject of disagreement.
If it were just a clump of cells then there wouldn't be such fervent demand to destroy it. Pro-choice people want access to abortion very much because it isn't just a clump of cells. It is a child that needs its mother and father to provide for it throughout pregnancy and after.
"No u!"
As other people have said, we're all just a "clump of cells".  We're multi-cellular organisms. Not only that, but every person living has started as a smaller "clump of cells."  As an argument, it really has nothing going for it. It's mostly just a means of minimizing the baby's humanity, they're not really even making an argument. Which is not to say that it's ineffective.  It is in the dank meme class of argumentation.  Short, (semi-)witty, to the point, and glosses over the complexities of the argument.  Easy to just spout off if you don't want to be cornered or think about it too much.
I suggest showing them a picture of a dismembered 20 week old baby that was aborted. They will likely react with a mix of horror, disgust, and anger at you. To which you respond "it's just a clump of cells what's the big deal?"
most abortions, 91.4%, happen in the first teimester. 8.6% happen in the second and third, and i cant find a reliable stat for just third. third trimester only happens under very rare circumstances if im correct.
Andddd the democratic party platform is openly in favor of abortions up to and including the 3rd trimester
for the rare occasion they happen on, for just medical reasons, why wouldnt they be, if they were for it i the first and second? its all just as bad
except that they don't happen for medical reasons in most cases
https://www.plannedparenthood.org/files/5113/9611/5527/Abortion_After_first_trimester.pdf youre kinda right. this was pretty informative
You're technically just a bundle of cells.
Pro-choicers use this line to say that it is not developed enough to be important. My response to this would be to tell them how developed it is. I usually talk about week 10(when the baby has a brain,nervous sytem,organs, and is moving his/her limbs) because Ireland is soon to have a referendum with the possible outcome of allowing abortion up to week 12. Here's a handy website: https://www.babycenter.com/6_your-pregnancy-10-weeks_1099.bc Although it would be very technically accurate to call it a ball of cells during the zygote,morula,blastocyste stages it can be misleading. Yes, although it is a ball of cell, it IS a complete early develop human organism, with POTENTIAL SENTIENCE. It isnt JUST a bunch of cells how like a tissue of skin cells is. A zygote,blastocyste,morula is an organism, skin cells are not.
So are you
"So are you."
So are you.
It is a clump of cells but a zygote demonstrates is human, unique and very much alive. It has a genetic composition unlike any other human being ever, and utilizes the 4 attributes that deem an organism "alive", illustrated by Carl Sagan (Growth and development, metabolism, reaction to stimuli, and reproduction). These arguments are found on an article about secular pro-life arguments, just look up "secular pro-life arguments" and it should be the first search result.
Every living thing is “just a clump of cells.” You and I are just clumps of cells. Actually, the fact that they admit it’s made of cells proves that fetuses are indeed alive. Yes, they are made of cells, but it’s an undeniable fact that these “cells” are a living human organism, just as much of a human being as you or I.

Beautifully put.
If you are interested in the Iona Institute, here is a subreddit for you: https://www.reddit.com/r/SupportersOfTheIona/
I wasn't interested before, but I am now. Thanks.
This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.

I guess the extramarital affair kind of illustrates exactly where their moral compass points.

More on-this as u find please. Ty :)
This article has a place where you can "click" to sign up for pro-life news alerts.
Tyvm
Oooh this is lovely! But I thought prolifers hated pregnant women and wanted them to suffer?
I think you forgot the "/s".
I thought it was obvious!
Yeah, people should be able to get it buuuuuut...🤦 It's always best just to add it to be safe. There are actually people who feel this way.
What?
Very common Democrat talking point is that pro lifers only care about fetuses and nothing else.

If I kill a pregnant woman it's counted as two murders in court
False. Fetuses are humans because they are members of the species homo sapiens. Please don't rely on law to define science. Science is good enough on its own.
Seconded
human=/=person
Depends on jurisdiction
You got that backwards. It's counted as two murders because a fetus is human.
Depends on the state
Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feticide HelperBot v1.1 /r/HelperBot_ I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 149839
Feticide Feticide (or foeticide) is an act that causes the death of a fetus. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source | ^Donate ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
because.... if you don't kill them in 9 months you will have a baby human.


5 years ago last month I found out I was pregnant. NONE of my "pro-choice" friends supported me. The night I got the positive test result I texted a friend who only replied "you better schedule the abortion sooner than later". I figured if my friends were this unsupportive my parents would be even worse, so I ended up hiding my pregnancy, putting myself and my baby at risk. I'm really thankful that I ended up finding info for a crisis pregnancy center online. They gave me the freedom to make my choice without forcing anything on me. That way when I told my parents they were able to see that I'd thought through all my options and was sure of my decision. I have a beautiful 4 year old son now. I wouldn't have my life any other way!
I was in a very similar situation to you about 8 years ago. My mom asked me why I wouldn't get an abortion, that it's just a clump of cells. Yeah, those exact words. Everyone screams choice until you choose to have a baby. My sons coming up on his 8th birthday and I've never seen someone so in love with "a clump of cells" as my mom is with him. I don't ever bring it up but I sometimes hope she thinks about how she told me to abort him and regrets saying it. Being against crisis pregnancy centers just shows how little you care about pregnant woman. Where are the woman who want their baby supposed to go? Should we make all pregnancy centers abortion clinics that offer no prenatal care, and tell everyone else to suck it or get an abortion? We need to help women who are pregnant carry their baby healthily to term, and support them after birth. Planned parenthood does exactly none of those things. I'm glad you chose life like I did, because children are wonderful!
I hope you aborted that friendship.
Oh man! Those comments make me so sick and sad!
Hello! I am a 10th grade student I did a speech recently for my English class about abortion, I was told that I did pretty well and I thought why not share the opening to my speech here. So here's the opening I hope you like it. :)The year is 2023, humans have finally landed on Mars. A few days after the initial landing the people who went to Mars say that they found a single cell organism on the surface of the red planet. Everyone back home goes nuts because life was discovered on Mars. Now let’s head back to 2018 where a woman made the decision to have sex with a man. The woman becomes pregnant but decides that she doesn’t want to have a baby, so she decides to have an abortion. She will most likely be told that the baby won’t feel anything because it isn’t “alive” yet, but if a single celled organism found on Mars is called life, why isn’t a child that has multiple cells, can feel pain, and has developed limbs?
Yeah because people pick and choose what "alive" means based on convenience rather than real definitions. Good job btw. When I was in high school we weren't allowed to write papers or do speeches about abortion because it was "too controversial."
Thanks! I really don’t understand why people change the definition of alive just to fit their narrative
I think you do know the reason but you’re trying to be nice and I respect that. But the reason? They just don’t care. They like to pretend they care but they don’t. Most leaders of the pro choice movement even acknowledge that abortion is murder. Hell, the founder of PP was undeniably racist and those people nearly worship her. They just. Don’t. Care.
Pretty sure it's different because it's an organism found off world. Calling it life, from a scientific standpoint, isn't accurate, it's still just a clump of cells, as fetuses are. Believe it or not, discovering other life existing in the universe is different to abortion of a fetus. The alien organism disproves multiple theories of the universe, both scientific and religious, and the alien is a completely new species discovered to us. Making these comparisons is evidence enough that you are in high school
So sounds like you're using some philosophical made-up definition of "life" if you think it doesn't apply to a living organism or a living clump of cells.
I apologise then, the word I should have/meant to use was conscious.
Seriously though, those are two entirely different things. Op was completely accurate, and to insult them in that way, especially when YOU are wrong is childish as hell.
Well done kid.  Hope u got an A+.
I got an A- so close enough
That's life on Mars just as it's life in the womb, because it has unique DNA. Anything else would be hypocrisy.
Welcome to the subreddit! Nice introduction paragraph. I think the common pro-choice response to that is that even though the unborn child is life, its right to live doesn't supersede the right of the mother to kill it. Not that I agree with that at all or anything...! There's a pretty funny image macro that raises this point too: https://scontent.fbtr1-1.fna.fbcdn.net/v/t1.0-9/17991155_296463474124200_6090695976028295089_n.jpg?oh=5a6fc80a6497426e1445b479285ee632&oe=5B242803
I have a question. So if someone were to kill that single celled organism on Mars. Should they go to jail for murder? What if I itch myself and kill millions of human skin cells. Should I go to jail for killing human life?
See Q8.
Yes, I am aware of the differences of the categorical terms of "human". But this post is equating a single-celled organism on Mars as the same thing as a human fetus. Anyone can clearly understand there is a huge difference between these two entities.
Yes they are absolutely different. What is baffling is that singular cells can be called "life" but a multicellular living organism is denied the same term by the same people. It makes no sense.
He's obviously instaconfused.
I would say that's because those individuals are operating on different terms of what it means to be alive. It's a semantics issue. The criteria some hold for basic biological life that applies to a single called organism is different then what some would hold when it comes judging the criteria of what constitutes living in terms of a human being (viability, brain birth, quickening, heartbeat etc).
I think you mean when it comes to judging the criteria of what constitutes a person. And yeah, that is the issue -- people are using the exact same term but changing the definition when applying it to fetuses without being explicit that they are in fact making up the definition they're using.

This seems like an altogether minor thing. In some ways it is, but in other ways it isn't. For a pro-life character to be explicitly acknowledged in a game - not as some monster, or caricature, but simply as a positive force - is a great thing. I do not know who created them, but I'd thank them for allowing some sliver of a pro-life mindset to enter the public consciousness from a place where it's normally bereft.
It's pro choice if anything? Choice means they decide whether or not to do it, not that everyone should do it. The character wanted the fetus aborted and later decided against it. Emotional decisions are the weakest decisions as they usually don't take into account the facts. His decision to change his opinion was based on emotion. It was never his choice to have it aborted, it was the woman's, and she exercised her right to choose.
*Child, not fetus.
So fetuses just don't exist now?
Sure, for animals, for humans it is and always is a child.
Humans are animals. So, in your opinion (as none of what you've said is fact) when does the sperm cell and egg cell turn into a child
At fertilization.
So you failed basic biology then. So what is a fetus in your terms?
In a human, a child.
fetus ˈfiːtəs/ noun an unborn or unhatched offspring of a mammal, in particular an unborn human more than eight weeks after conception Sorry but looks like you're not right. Not that you ever could have been, fetuses are something you learn about when you're 10. Why is it animals have fetuses but humans don't?

A human fetus is a child just before it is born. It is not a pro-choice term, and is not a false one. There is absolutely nothing wrong with calling the unborn fetuses (or embryos or zygotes, depending on their stage of development), so you should not be afraid to do so. They are still children, and you should still call them that in situations that apply to both born children and unborn children, but  if you need to be specific you should still use the word "fetus" to refer to people who are in the later stage of development within their mother. Just to correct you on your terminology. Have a nice day. (:
Pro-abortion you mean.
Yes, sorry. There you are correct.
Also people who call it a fetus tend to use that term to justify killing the child "Oh its not a human...its a fetus" The more we force away that term when it comes to the social aspect of it the strong our pro-life argument gets.
Misuse of the word fetus is rather infuriating to me. It is not possible for a human fetus to be alive and not a person, by definition. Use of the word "fetus" to degrade anyone's humanity is cruel to all fetuses. Better to define the word properly than to abandon it.
Same thing
Nah. If it were pro-choice it would celebrate abortion as the right thing to do, and the right decision to have made. "You're pro-choice if you made a decision!" is laughable. Pro-choice means pro-abortion, the rejection of the idea that killing an unborn child is morally wrong. It's a monstrous position. So this is some nice pro-life pushback against that. I've notice the pro-abortion tend to be crazy, yes.
(Noticed*) Really, because most people say pro choice,  not pro abortion. By bring pro choice, yes they are pro abortion. Does that mean they will enforce their views on everyone? That everyone should always have an abortion? No. It doesn't. Pro choice means you can decide. Pro abortion and pro choice are the same thing. No one's forcing anyone to have an abortion. It's not a child. It's a clump of cells incapable of feeling or emotion or consciousness. By the same logic, masturbation is murder, as you're killing something thag could have developed into a child. And also, I'd love to know what you think should happen about rape victims
It's funny that you think anything you said makes sense, and even funnier that you think it's something we've never heard before. First, Go look up stages of fetal development, there are some great pictures online. Second, you obviously haven't been around the abortion debate long enough if you still think pro-choice people are just as happy when someone decides not to abort. Third, you don't know the difference between 'human' the noun and 'human' the adjective. Sperm is human, but it is not a human. Fourth, holy shit I think you actually went through almost all the stages of pro-abortion mental gymnastics. Congrats you must be exhausted.
And no one was forcing anyone to own slaves either, but that doesn't mean it should've stayed legal.
Also could you answer my question about rape victims please?
What are you asking, exactly? Whether being raped should give you carte blanche to murder your own baby?
So if a person has just been raped and impregnated by an attacker/rapist, they don't want the child and were not planning on having one at any point soon, especially in such a demeaning way, they should keep the baby? Even if they can't afford it. Even if they're a teenager. I mean, fuck me the fact that I'm having to list specificities about the rape is fucking depressing, just to get through your thick skull. And still, it isn't a baby, it's a fucking fetus. We learn that in school (but I doubt you went to one tbh)
Or give the baby up for adoption. Just don't kill it; that's all I'm asking.
So they can live a life stuck with other unwanted children and possibly never even get adopted? Or to even live in an abusive orphanage. Wow, you're right, let's treat them lile shit and vermin their entire lives. Oh, and it's definitely lile we need more people being born into the world. Not lile there's poverty, famine and drought riddled throughout the world thanks to overpopulation

Ah yes let's compare the enslavement of an entire race to removing an unfeeling clump of cells with no consciousness
Forced labor, compared to killing millions of people.
*Forced labour that killed millions. Don't fucking belittle slavery. And, guess what, they aren't people. If that's killing millions, then masturbation is murder
That doesn't follow at all.
How does it not follow. Sperm can eventually result into a grown person, can it Not?


A lot of pro-abortion groups are lining up behind Lipinski's challenger. From what I understand Illinois has open primaries, so you don't have to be a registered Democrat to vote in the primary, so that could probably help Lipinski. I would urge any pro-lifers in that district to consider voting for Lipinski in the primary. Though if a person votes in the Dem primary I don't think they can vote in the Republican primary. The district is generally regarded as safe Democrat.
40% of district voted Trump. If just a few of them vote Lipinski then we're good.

How can I make this about abortion?
Don’t worry, pro-choicers have already beaten us to it
77 retweets, 269 likes, 3000 comments. I feel like her rant on abortion and eugenics has received the reception it deserved.
Yeah, she’s winning the ratio game.

Brunch?
Breakfast/Lunch.  It’s wonderful.
It's not quite breakfast, it's not quite lunch, but it comes with a slice of cantaloupe at the end. You don't get completely what you would at breakfast, but you get a good meal.
What does the hand maiden tale have to do with anything?
Democrat activists tend to use it to protest basic restrictions on abortions (like making sure abortion clinics aren't completely filthy or that they meet basic standards).
It also makes no sense because their whole problem started because people weren't having children anymore, and they stopped being able to at all, and then they had population problems. Also. Only people they thought were worthy could reproduce. That is also a very pro-abortion mindset.
It doesn't matter to Democrats if it actually makes sense. It matters if it lets them create a big song and dance over the issue.
Here's a list of PRO LIFE Senate candidates in 2018!:Arizona:Donate - https://app.mobilecause.com/form/uA5ycw Volunteer - http://www.az.gop/get-involved/Michigan:Donate - https://penslerforsenate.com/donate/ Volunteer - https://penslerforsenate.com/volunteer/Minnesota:Donate - https://www.housleyforsenate.com/#contribute Volunteer - https://www.housleyforsenate.com/#join-the-teamMissouri:Donate - https://give.victorypassport.com/hawley/donate-today/ Volunteer - http://www.missouri.gop/volunteer/Montana:Donate - https://www.mattformontana.com/donate Volunteer - https://www.mattformontana.com/volunteerNew Mexico:Donate - https://mickrichforsenate.com/donate/ Volunteer - https://mickrichforsenate.com/volunteer/North Dakota:Donate - https://tomfornorthdakota.com/donate-page/ Volunteer - https://www.ndgop.org/volunteerPennsylvania:Donate - https://give.victorypassport.com/barletta/homepage/?source=homepage Volunteer - http://www.pagop.org/signup/Virginia:Donate - https://www.nick4senate.com/contribute/ Volunteer - https://www.nick4senate.com/volunteer/Wisconsin:Donate - https://nicholsonforsenate.com/donate/ Volunteer - https://www.wisgop.org/volunteer/
It’s important to determine if they are truly pro life and willing to criminalize abortion or if they’re prolifeTM and are hiding behind that façade to secure more votes. You can contact your local legislators at www.endabortionnow.com to ask them to please end the murder of babies in our nation.
I hope I'm wrong, but I highly doubt that criminalization of abortion as murder is in the near future for the US. It would be a bigger change than the abolition of slavery, and that took the country's bloody civil war to happen.
We need more Senators on our side so we can get the judges needed to repeal Roe V Wade then we can actually start cracking down a lot more. We've missed out before because we simply haven't had the Senate votes needed. And isn't someone who is "pro life" most of the time better than someone who is solidly pro abortion all the time?
Repealing Roe is important BUT doing so would not abolish abortion. States need to individually enforce their own laws on murder. States like Arizona and Idaho already have laws on the books saying abortion is murder and should be handled as such, but they do not enforce those laws because the incorrect notion that the Supreme Court makes laws. The Supreme Court cannot make laws. We see this already with actual federal laws such as marijuana, and illegal immigration policy. Some states have taken it upon themselves to legalize marijuana use in their state despite it being illegal at the federal level. Some states have sanctuary cities that do not enforce federal laws. Why can’t we do the same with abortion? “The federal government says there’s a “right” to baby murder? Well this state is gonna criminalize abortion. Deal with it.”
SCOTUS will just strike down any criminalization (along with just sensible restrictions). We need senators to be able to pass federal restrictions and appoint judges who will be able to at least stop striking down pro life laws or even start striking down pro abortion laws.
That’s understandable, but incremental legislation is not effective. And if Roe were to be overturned, all the incremental legislation would act as precedent to keep abortion legal. What I’m saying is: don’t regulate, abolish. This video sums it up more clearly: https://youtu.be/u9TFRzI1lc4
While we're not in a position to abolish completely I think it's better we at least restrict it as much as possible. Incrementalism has seen abortion rates go down in nearly all states which pass it. Our end goal should be abolition but while that isn't possible we can't just let them do what they want.
Yeah absolutely. I think right now the movement needs to be making a clearer push towards abolition, rather than filling the prolifeTM fatcats’ wallets in exchange for little to no change. It’s shocking when you hear the president of National Right to Life say that people who murder their own babies are not murderers. If we’re going to sacrifice truth, we’re going to fail. I can see a movement at the individual state levels to start the dominoes falling with consistent legislation. We just need to push harder. Also influencing the culture! Make your voices heard!!!
It's not as if nothing has changed. With Republican's taking control of dozens of state governments we have seen a pretty dramatic shift in state policies toward abortion. In 2006 just 2 states were extremely hostile to abortion, a number that has surged to 22 in 2016. And if we gain more ground in 2018 then that number can go even higher: https://www.guttmacher.org/sites/default/files/images/071.yestatetrendsstates.png
Praise God! Hopefully those numbers go up. I just get concerned when I’m relying on the Republicans when they have control. They tend to get lazy because they’re not rallying around the flag of opposition to Obama.
State government's tend to be better at it because there aren't all the procedure rules that you have to get past in the Senate. If you're interested then PM me and I can help you find pro life candidates in your state?

For me abortion is not the only issue. Plus as several people in this sub have recently pointed out, not all pro-life politicians will put their money (vote) where their mouth is, so voting for them is a waste of time. Investigate the candidate before blindly voting for them just because they say they're pro-life.
I would vote on a candidate's stance on abortion over anything else, since there's no issue of comparable gravity. I really don't get people who say "I'm against abortion but I'll vote for pro abortion politicians because they care about healthcare and the environment." But I agree with what you say, it's so sad that many prolife politicians are all talk and no action. In the US, the proabortion party seems to always be the one enforcing ideological purity on their side, pushing the boundaries etc. The antiabortion party is usually the one doing the compromising and being apathetic. You hear politicians advocating for insanely cruel things like abortion up until the moment of birth and opposing lifesaving treatment for babies who survive abortion attempts, but not politicians who loudly call for criminalization. All of it is greed and power plays over the lives of babies.
Maybe they think it is of comparable gravity -- for example if people aren't getting healthcare and dying, or if the threat to the environment is one of extinction? I mean you may not agree with that but if you examine it from their perspective it would make sense. I agree, it's disturbing how normalized calling for abortion up til birth seems to be in the public sphere where in any other country it would be pretty shocking. As it should be.
I honestly feel so helpless because of this. My sister recently started seeing someone, and the first thing my mom asked is whether he was a democrat or a republican. She was elated to hear he was a democrat. It makes me angry beyond belief that people can't see how harmful this is. 300 million people are somehow supposed to align their endless number of beliefs into one of two categories, and if they disagree with one or the other, they have to either betray that belief and vote anyways, or are stuck without someone to vote for. I'm pretty sure my mom blames me for trump winning simply because I refused to vote for Hillary. I get that trump is the scum of the earth, but I'm also not willing to have the deaths of millions more children on my conscience. How can we get people to see that blindly voting republican or democrat is hurting our country, not helping it?
I empathize. And I don't know the answer, frankly I've just become really cynical about it.
I think that a lot of people feel that way, but feel that voting for a third party candidate is throwing away their vote.
Pennsylvania also has a governor's election, and I'm thinking probably also the Attorney General as well. Pro-lifers in PA need to vote the Gov. Wolf and Sen. Casey out! Vote 'em out!
What can't there be any Pro-life Dems in my state? Being Pro-life is not a bipartisan issue.
Name 3 candidates.
The party is rabidly pro baby murder and won’t support pro life candidates.
There are a few Pro-life Dems but not in my state.  This is the biggest sticking point with my party..😞
Which state?
New Mexico
Because the Democrat party is entirely pro Abortion. The last pro life dems all left or lost election in 2010 wave.
This is sad.
I’m also in NM.
It's a very pro-choice state even with all the Catholics. I'm not religious but going to UNM was irritating at times...🤦
Well, I’m a Protestant so I can relate to Catholics being irritating!
https://www.austinpetersen.com Missouri’s better pro-life candidate.
Who supports no pro life legislation and is totally unelectable. https://thebuckleyclub.com/why-are-people-getting-conned-by-austin-petersen-2d8599c2c215 That's SO pro life right?
He supports the bill Rand Paul does that would allow states to ban abortion.
Not good enough. We need to be actively fighting abortion on the federal level, not just leaving it to states to allow it up to birth. Petersen's position might as well just be copied and pasted from Joe Biden.
The federal route has been a routine failure; states are the ones actually limiting abortion access successfully.
If we would be in a situation to regulate on a federal level do you really want this PoS who would oppose that because of his belief in Libertarian dogma? We've failed so far because we don't have the Senate numbers to do so, adding one more Senator who opposes federal regulation doesn't help at all.
And neither does electing "pro-life" Senators that dgaf.
As Missouri's attorney general Josh Hawley has defended Missouri's pro life laws. While his opponents Claire McCaskill and Austin Petersen will just stop pro life laws dead in the Senate.
The federal government doesn't have the authority to ban murder. Seriously. Murder is a criminal statute, and the the only (valid) federal crimes are those that cross state boundaries. Constitutionally speaking, we would need an amendment to ban abortion (which I support), a restriction on the Court's authority to hear abortion cases (Paul's solution, a good one), or an overturning of Roe v Wade (the most viable solution). Abortion is murder. And the federal government isn't allowed to criminalize murder. This has to be done by the states.
Electing Petersen who won't support any legislation to actually ban abortion or restrict it won't help that aim in any way.
Will he support a SCOTUS Justice who will repeal Roe v Wade? Will he support stripping the Court of jurisdiction on abortion cases? I'm not a fan of Petersen, tbh. I think he's kind of a douche. But I do think that electing him will help our cause just as much as the other pro-life candidate will.
He seems to take a libertarian "I don't agree with it but I won't restrict it". Basically Joe Biden.
I'm a prolife liberal and I will never ever vote for a Republican, because there are actually issues that are so much more important than abortion.  Like the environment.   The planet dies, we all die.  Not just unborn.  All.  Think about that as you are casting your ballot. By the way, just so you are all aware, neither party gives a crap about abortion either way.  It's just a tool to keep the people divided. THEY CARE ABOUT MONEY-- both sides.  That's it.  That's what is running this country.  There are no heroes in politics, only whores.
Exactly. Abortion is actually number 1 for me personally, but healthcare, government assistance for the poor/pregnant woman/children, etc are a close second, would never think of voting for a republican candidate.
It's too bad that Democrats feel that the woman is the "vulnerable victim" in the abortion issue, when really they are the perpetrator of premeditated murder.
If anything, they are a victim to the democrat's agenda, dehumanizations, and social pressures that tell them they would be better off with a dead child. If there's one group of people that is the largest threat to pregnant woman and their children, it's the democrats. Besides that, a woman who willfully ends her child's life, is fully aware without coercion, is not a victim. Not in the slightest. So I don't see either party in a good light.
I don't either.  Especially after 2016.  They had a choice to nominate Bernie Sanders who has worked for the poor and social justice for 50 years and the Democrats openly did everything they could to stop him in order to try to elect that war-monger Clinton. I could care less about what Russia did or didn't do in November.  My hopes of a better future were ended that July, by my own party.  I don't like Trump, but I'm also sure glad Hillary isn't President.
I honestly thought a lot of it was overblown, and that Hillary was sort of ok, but then I heard her speech to all those bankers talking about how she was really running for them, and then later realized how thoroughly she worships abortion, I could not bring myself to vote for her. And I've hated trump from the get go. I would have voted for sanders in a heart beat.
We really don’t need more religion in politics..I am pro life but anti religion..I will pass on that
So you're willing to have completely pro abortion Senators in charge because you hate God?
Can’t hate something that does not exist
Bing!

I’m not voting for a Republican. That means no universal healthcare, fewer government services, loss of funding for welfare, food stamps, WIC, etc. Ending abortion is important to me but so is taking care of people outside of the womb, which Republicans don’t give a crap about. I’m also sure most aren’t even prolife and they just use it as a campaign issue. If Republicans show some concern for people outside the womb as well, I’ll be happy to throw a vote their way.
Yes, this is pretty much exactly how I feel.
Not even a joke. And I know it's a tricky question
No. This isn't just a tricky question, it is a trick question. It assumes that you know about all the horrible things a child will grow up to do, which is an impossibility. When looking at baby hitler, unless you are a time traveler, you have no way of knowing what he would grow up to do. This is a problem with many consequentialist theories of ethics, it requires knowledge that cannot be ascertained before the act. Given this logical problem I would treat him the same as any other child. Now if I did know exactly what his future would hold... hypothetically speaking would I abort hitler? No. I would make sure he got into art school.
Good answer. It all kind of deteriorated after he failed at being an artist. And yes you know what he's going to do
What a stupid question. You could just as easily ask, would you kill Hitler as a 10-year-old? Well, yeah it would save millions of lives, but that doesn't mean we can go around killing 10-year-olds.
We kill ten year olds if they're wearing a suicide vest in Iraq. Lots if kids have been shot dead because their dangerous
Killing a 10 year old who is trying to bomb people Killing an innocent 10 year old because you think he might grow up to kill people one day You don't see the difference?
No you know what he's going to grow up to do. He's Hitler. You've read your history books. Only chance to do anything is abort him or let him go. In fairly pro life and can answer it easy. Hell yeah I'd abort Hitler. Would u
There's no point in asking moral questions about time travel paradoxes in that case.
It's not an easy one is it. Which choice is the pro life one. Take one or let millions die
No, it's not easy or hard, it's just stupid because it's based on an self-contradicting premise.
Dude I think your a little pissed off that I've stuck you between a rock and a hard place. Chances are things would go along a similar path even if he was out of the picture irl. But this is just an ethical conundrum. You can flip a switch. He's aborted or born and goes on to kill millions.That is a yes or no question.
Actually, I don't think it's much of a yes or no question. It's based on an impossible premise (knowing the future) and therefore I think there can't be an answer. I see it as akin to the "Can God create a rock so heavy He can't lift it?" question. An interesting thought experiment, but it has no answer, since it's not really a valid question. It's contradictory in nature. Since you can't know if someone will grow up to become a mass murderer, the correct course of action, as always, is to not kill an innocent human life.
No. Because up until the moment he made the decision/order to kill someone,  he had the potential not to (free will). I think I would've gotten him into an art school.
“Shoot the dictator and prevent the war? But the dictator is merely the tip of the whole festering boil of social pus from which dictators emerge; shoot him and there'll be another one along in a minute. Shoot him too? Why not shoot everyone and invade Poland?” ― Terry Pratchett
True. Nice quote but for the purpose of the question it would stop the war and the genocide
If this is a world where Hitler was somehow the only one who could've pulled off the Holocaust, there are so many ways to prevent it without killing him. Prevent the economic catastrophe caused by the Treaty of Versailles, or preventing the assassination of Franz Ferdinand in the first place, and there's no reason for him to scapegoat Germany's Jews in the first place. Or just get him into art school.
I would rather try and make him grow-up not being evil, but if I didn't have that option and I was sure he would definitely grow up to kill millions than yes, because that would be the "pro-life" thing to do. But we are not psychic and we don't have time machines.
No. But for the purpose of the argument we are. That and it would be cool. Time machines mostly but mind reading could be useful as well
We can assume I have some magical ability to both know he's responsible for evil and have the ability to stop him, but I would also need to know what happens if I do kill him. I don't know enough to say for certain that the holocaust wouldn't happen. Without a charismatic fascist leader they could have become communist, I don't know. Killing Hitler might accomplish nothing or even cause more harm.
Commies would be even worse. But in this scenario. No War. No Holocaust. Germany is like the united states or England if you abort him
Heres an entertaining video on the topic: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bm8ncE_09V0


we need more you know the ABORTIONISTS will fight tooth and nail

Statement from the President of the National Right To Life Committee
This is God's battle.  Prophecy is Roe vs Wade will be reversed.  And it will.  Wait and watch.  God loves humanity.  As the occult gets taken down pro-lifers  who r God fearing and uphold Biblical law will be put in the positions of power needed to reverse roe vs wade.  Watch and pray without ceasing. God loves humanity and He will not be mocked.  🇺🇸🙏🏽♥️ The battle belongs to  the Lord.

I just thought I'd pull that out of the article as it shows exactly what the story is pointing out. Pro-choice folks are in favor of "women's" rights, but that's not the all-embracing group of female humans. It is very specifically the rights of reproductive age women to have the right to kill unborn children, including and especially female children, completely indiscriminately. It's actually startling to me to read every day how the pro-choice side edges around the issue with the euphemisms and the conveniently over-specific scientific terminology. It's not a person to them, it's a "fetus".  It's as if the term fetus was something more than the descriptive term for a human being at a specific stage of development.  Unborn children aren't homo fetus, they're homo sapiens, just like every other modern human. It is this use of evasive and slippery language that has assured me of the weakness of the so-called pro-choice position as much as the science and moral arguments.
Yes, it's frustrating how "woman" (or "women," "my/me" etc) in this case literally means "adult female able to have children." There are a great deal of women that fall outside of that definition, and of particular note to this debate are the ones who are aborted every day.
The unborn are not persons and thus have no rights under the law. The term “women’s rights” is appropriate because the abortion debate concerns rights that apply only to women.
More female fetuses have and will continue to be electively aborted than male fetuses. Pro-life is Pro-women's Rights (to life).
female fetuses (like male fetuses) are not persons and therefore have no rights under the law.  Thus pro-life is not pro-women’s right of anything, since female fetuses have no rights under the law in the first place.
I'm well aware of what the current law is, that doesn't make it right. Laws change. The fact is that without abortion there would be more women on this planet today, but the are being selectively destroyed before they are even born just based on their gender.
What you say may be true, but it does not negate my point, which was that pro-life is not pro-women’s right of anything, since female fetuses have no rights under the law in the first place.
Is that what you truly believe, or are you just saying this because this is what the government tells you?
When women fight for rights they believe they don't have, it's noble. When women fight for rights others dont have, its demonized. Don't engage with this guy, he is arguing a point that no one is trying to make.
I truly believe that rights do not attach until birth.  They never have.
No rights at all? Even up to an hour before the baby is delivered?

If you really want to support women's rights support their right to life.
Women are persons, thus, as persons, I support their right to life.
Preventing a fetus from growing simply because they are female is anti-women's rights.
who or what is being denied its rights?
Human embryos

On what grounds do you make the claim that "the unborn are not persons?" What defines a person, and what attributes do the unborn lack to meet this definition?
On the legal grounds set forth by Justice Blackmun in Roe v Wade, together with the fact that I have never seen any evidence of the unborn having any rights in any facet of life (or otherwise treated as persons under the law) at all in any period of American history. The pro-life movement argues that the unborn are persons, but this is merely a results-based argument crafted for the mere purpose of outlawing abortion.  I know of no period in American history pre Roe where there was any kind of movement or effort among the People to reclassify the unborn as persons.  If the unborn were indeed entitled to the rights that persons enjoy, then the movement to reclassify the unborn as persons would have launched long before Roe.
The unborn do have rights, though. For instance, it's illegal to kill an unborn child in the womb in its third trimester in the majority of the US's states. Regardless, deferring to what is currently the law isn't a very strong argument for or against something. If I could theoretically step back to the 19th century, I could make your exact argument against abolishing slavery--slaves are not people by law and have never been people. If the only laws that were passed in the US were things that have always existed, gay marriage wouldn't be legal today. The issue is that the burden of proof that the unborn are "not persons" lies with the one making the claim. There is no actual agreed-upon criteria that makes a human being not or not a person. The legal definition of the word person is "a human being:" http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/person "Personhood" is an inherently philosophical concept; there's no scientific definition for it and thus no real "foundation" that people with different beliefs can agree on. And if there's no agreed-upon consensus, who gets to decide? It's been used to commit atrocities in our history with great effect. With no real useful and/or moral precedent in the past, it comes across as an ad hoc justification for abortion. Why would we distinguish a human being from a human person, except to justify killing that human being? Lastly, I posit that Roe v Wade's decision is outdated: "We need not resolve the difficult question of when life begins. When those trained in the respective disciplines of medicine, philosophy, and theology are unable to arrive at any consensus, the judiciary, at this point in the development of man's knowledge, is not in a position to speculate as to the answer." -- Roe vs. Wade pg. 159 We are at that point now.
You really don't know what you are talking about.  The restrictions on abortions after viability (the trimester scheme no longer applies) are not on account of the rights of the fetus, but rather the state's interest in the potentiality of life.  You need to read Roe and Casey. You really don't know what you are talking about.  Slaves were persons, it's written in the US Constitution.  And I'm not deferring to what is currently the law, I'm in agreement with the reasoning of the Court. You need to read Roe and get an understanding of how the Court concluded that the unborn were not persons. The distinction explains not only why the unborn do not have the right to life, it also explains why they do not have (and have never had) other rights, such as the right to sue and be sued, and the right to inherit property. You're misreading the opinion.  Justice Blackmun is explaining that the question of when life begins is irrelevant to his analysis of why the unborn have no rights.  The proposition that life begins at conception would not change the Court's analysis.
I always just point out how if pro-life is anti women's rights, then why is the President of the March for Life a woman? Also, take a look at any photo of a March for Life parade and you'll see majority women.
It's not just the pro-choice school that classifies a fetus as a non-person, it’s also the nations top jurists who sit on the US Supreme Court.  Roe vs. Wade has been revisited many times, and yet its original holding that the unborn are not persons has not been disturbed. If two opposing sides are going to debate an issue, it is best that they use terminology having definitions upon which they agree.  Do you dispute that a human being in utero but past the embryonic stage is a fetus?
The Supreme Court system is based on precedent and they are loath to make changes to previous decisions, even bad ones of which there have been more than a few. In this case, it is a manifestly bad decision that you can be a human being and not a person. Not at all.  It's a descriptive term for a specific phase in human development. However, it tends to be used when it may be more appropriate to include the specific human being among the larger group of humans to which it belongs.  Focus is put on how the fetus differs from everyone else to create a mindset of exclusion in the discussion. For instance, when discussing human rights, a pro-choice individual will tend avoid referring to a fetus as a "human being" like the plague, unless called on it, and even so, with discomfort.
But doesn’t U.S. Law also recognize fetuses as not human beings until full birth/delivery?
This is a definition forced by the Roe decision and others.  Creating a definition that countered the Roe decision would be overturned as unconstitutional and so could not be law. But let's be clear, this is also a bad law, even if it were to stand on it's own.  You can pass a law that says anything you want.  That doesn't make it sound ethically or morally.
It’s not only based on precedent; it’s also based on reasoning.  If you believe the reasoning of the Court is flawed, you need to cite the Court’s reasoning and attack the flaws (and that’s only a first step!).  Until you cite the reasoning and identify the flaws, you provide no reasonable basis to conclude otherwise. Incidentally, the court did make a change from the holding of Roe v. Wade.  It’s called Planned Parenthood v. Casey.  The core holding, however, was upheld. This is weak reasoning.  If it’s true that it “may be more appropriate to include the specific human being among the larger group of humans to which it belongs,” then it is also true that it may not.  You don’t make a convincing argument using “may.” But this discomfort is entirely understandable.  “Human being” actually has two meanings.  In one sense, it is a two word noun that means person, and it is axiomatic in the pro-choice school that a fetus is not a person.  In the other sense, it is an adjective followed by a noun, i.e. an existing being that happens to be human.  One trick that the pro-life school uses is to equivocate between one meaning and the other.  Thus, there is good reason for those in the pro-choice camp to be reluctant to use the term “human being” to refer to the unborn. If you want to have a meaningful discussion on this topic, it is best to use terms with meanings upon which everyone agrees.  Otherwise the abortion debate just becomes a shouting match about semantics.
My point was originally that the pro-choice exhibits considerable cognitive dissonance in relation to their position.  This is aided by their shifting definitions and evidenced more visibly by their word use and reaction to terms which should be uncontroversial. We're probably expanded well beyond the context of my original comment, but if your point is that we need carefully argued points in debating with pro-choice individuals, I don't disagree.
Well I can’t speak for others.  I see no cognitive dissonance in my understanding of the pro-choice position.  I have tried to explain what you perceive to be reluctance on the part of some in the pro-choice school on labelling the unborn as “human beings”.
So your argument is that they are being purposefully deceptive by equivocating between meanings? While I don't think much of some particular pro-choice folks, I really don't think most of them are quite that calculating.
Sorry - I edited my comment.  I wrote “pro-choice” when I meant “pro-life”.  I corrected it before you responded. In any case, I don’t think I would use the word “deception” to characterize equivocation.
Ah.  That makes more sense. Now, I'd take you to task on your statement.  How do we equivocate between meanings? I presume you understand that we believe a human being is a person inherently, so there's no equivocation.  The pro-choice argument is that you can separate them.  We're merely making it clear that such a legalistic distinction is immoral and frankly unintuitive. We've had considerable bad results with human rights in the past when we separate the concept of legal personhood from humanity.   In most of those cases, including that of abortion, the separation of personhood from basic humanity has usually been done for the benefit of one group over another. How do we make it acceptable to discriminate against Jews or Blacks or even women?  Ensure they are considered sub-human and lack personhood either in rhetoric or in legal fact. On the flip side, personhood divorced from humanity can be used in a manner to promote things that might not actually be human at all, such as the quasi-personhood under the law that corporations have. It is amusing to me that the Court has been careful to uphold the rights of corporate free speech as in Citizens United but has such a terrible track record with decisions like Dredd Scott, Plessy v. Ferguson, and Roe v. Wade when it comes to actual human beings. In any event, if you don't like "human beings" to refer to homo sapiens, what would you prefer?  I'm perfectly happy to refer to all of us by our genus and species, if you like.  As you know, even embryos share that characteristic with us.
A pro-choice argument may be that a fetus is not a human being (i.e. the compound noun meaning “person”).  The pro-life response would be that it is scientifically proven that a fetus is alive and exists, and therefore a living being.  The human fetus is, well, human, thus a fetus is a human being (i.e., “human” adjective and “being” noun).  The pro-life argument defeats the pro-choice argument, because no distinction is made between “human being” the noun, and “human being” the adjective & noun.  Then someone who is pro-life comes around and says something like this- ...which makes no distinction between the born and unborn.  As a “belief,” it has a very low burden of proof and therefore is only minimally persuasive.  People can believe whatever they want; if the unborn are persons then make that argument, and do so without using arguments that are typically offered in support of a pro-choice position, lest your argument fall to begging the question. Explain how the distinction is counter-intuitive. Black slaves in America were considered persons.  It’s written in the US Constitution.  They were denied rights on account of their lack of citizenship. I’m not about to go off on a tangent regarding corporate personhood.  If you feel that there are sections of Citizens United, Dredd Scott or Plessy v. Ferguson that call into question the personhood-at-birth principle, then quote the text from the opinion and discuss. I prefer “fetus,” “embryo,” or the “unborn.”

The Supreme Court has also ruled in  favor of slavery, school segregation, internment camps, and forced sterilization. I'd hardly consider them a flawless moral authority.
I’m not relying on the Court as a moral authority.  I’m relying on the Court as a legal authority.
But no one is disputing whether or not abortion is legal.
But everyone is disputing whether abortion should be legal.
Yes, which means your argument that abortion is legal is completely irrelevant.
I wasn’t making that argument.  My comment to which you originally replied was in support of the argument that a fetus is not a person.  It was in direct response to a related argument in the immediately preceding comment, and therefore, relevant.
No one ever claimed the personhood of the unborn was recognized by the current Court.
But the argument starting with - was made to discredit this very notion.  I made my comment in support of it.  Thus, no one would have needed to claim that the Court recognized the personhood of the unborn for my comment to be relevant. Are you planning on having anything of substance to say here?


10pm EST happens when this comment is 10 hours and 47 minutes old. You can find the live countdown here: https://countle.com/tMz0139035 I'm a bot, if you want to send feedback, please comment below or send a PM.

Or you could listen and use logic to refute his argument like a rational person.
Don’t feed the troll. Also happy cake day.
Didn’t even know, thanks! Another account I deleted had ten years on it.


Unfortunately, Google is brutal towards those who will try to game their system, so expect a crack down.  It isn't even a pro-choice/pro-life thing, they just don't like SEO gaming (unless you pay them for it, of course) Although you can be sure they have little sympathy for the pro-life side.
The crisis pregnancy centers were paying for it, according to the article, but NARAL "convinced" Google that they were being deceptive.
Kudos to whatever SEO guy the crisis pregnancy centers have working for them, but don't give any credit to Google. They're as pro-choice as they come.
"Good guy" for not catching it then, imagine if this just saved one life?
Eh, you can call it what you want, but to me there's a world of difference between a good guy and an ineffective bad guy.
I don't get how PP can be so bad at SEO. They have buckets of money to throw at it
Maybe they're like the Clinton campaign, lots of money but spending ineffectively. They aren't as nimble as we are.
Anything rooted in deception, misinformation, and undue pressure is bad, no matter if it is pro-choice or pro-life. We don't want a woman being pressured into having an abortion. Don't use the same tactics as the ones you oppose from the other side. Let's keep the discussion honest.
Anything to save a life, there's no misrepresentation there. If deception is what the other side is playing then I'm all in. I refuse to fight nukes with rocks.
I like the metaphor. I can picture a person throwing a rock at a nuke.
It's not deception. It's saying "you're pregnant, we can help you." If there's even the smallest chance a woman wants to keep her baby, shouldn't we help her do that? If she doesn't, going to a crisis pregnancy center isn't going to hurt her.

I definitely get the feeling that, to some degree, the pro-life side is taken for granted, much like the Democrats take for granted the minority vote.  They won't let a pro-life position get in the way of making certain deals and the Dems would go bananas if such a measure even looked like it would pass and be signed.
It's kind of similar to the Democrats and black voters. The D's don't actually have to care about the black community. What are they going to do, vote Republican? If life is one of your top issues, there's no way in hell you're voting for a Democrat. Consequently, Republicans don't need to actively seek your vote.
Yeah, but.. so what? Reps have all three branches, who cares if Dems go bananas. The only reason to actually care is if it hurts your 2018 chances, and if your 2018 chances are more important to you than defunding Planned Parenthood, then you're not really pro-life.
I think there are only a handful of politicians in Washington with any real convictions on any issues that don't benefit them financially.
Yeah, but then the Republicans could campaign on actually being effective in their elected positions rather than snatching up gullible pro-life votes with empty promises year after year.
Effective at what?
All pro life progress has come from the REPUBLICANS. Democrats in every single state have done their best to stop it. Democrat governors in Virginia, Minnesota, Pennsylvania, Montana have all vetoed any pro life laws that Republican legislatures pass. Democrat state legislatures in Illinois and Oregon have just outright made all abortions free.
What progress?
Thanks to Republicans repealing an Obama rule that made all states fund Planned Parenthood the states of South Carolina, Arkansas and Iowa have defunded  (these are the ones I know of probably more have followed) and other states are making progress on this. In Kentucky Republican government tried to shut down last abortion clinic but were stopped by a Democrat appointed judge.
"Progress"
So defunding abortion clinics and trying to shut them down isn't good enough?
Progress is meaningful legislation that steps in the right direction and leadership that makes us look strong and worthy of respect. Right now we have a bunch of children making us look like bigots, while doing the bare minimum to keep their voter base.
We don't have a real senate majority anymore thanks to the loss in Alabama. We can either fight for thate senate majority which will allow us to make change or we can sit out and let the Democrats take both houses (and erase any progress we've made so far).
Or we can start electing good people. Idk just a thought.

Effective at defunding Planned Parenthood.
Yeah, but how would career politicians get elected without issues like this?
Surely the campaign would then focus on keeping Planned Parenthood defunded?
That's just not as catchy.
How about abolishing abortion then. Overturning Roe v Wade. Persecuting abortionists, etc. There are plenty of things for them to run on if they defund PP.
Welcome to Abolitionism.
See also: Amnesty Gun control etc
Yassssss.
We need to abolish abortion


As gruesome as this is, it is (fortunately) not entirely accurate.  The only word you need to remember the baby’s pain while reading is “inject”.  Unborn children can feel the needle stabbing them (usually either in the head or up the anus iirc) which is no doubt excruciating for a number of reasons, but they cannot feel anything after they are dead, no matter how late term they are.
You're mixing up two different procedures. The 2nd trimester procedure involves dismembering the baby, and the 3rd trimester procedure is the one where they inject the digoxin and then the mother delivers a whole, dead baby through normal labor. Bear in mind that the baby was viable before digoxin was administered.
And that it's exactly the same as inducing labor, giving birth to a live child, and then injecting them with digoxin except...a day apart. But they weren't a person a day ago.....! Edit a word
You're right, I was confused.  A very big part of me wishes I was still confused.
:(
IMHO, any abortion procedure, including but not limited to Intact dilation and extraction, where the fetus is post-viability before the start of the procedure, and for which is no medical necessity, should be banned IMHO.
You still have to be careful to define "medical necessity." Kansas stipulates that 3rd trimester abortions can only be done for medical reasons, but doesn't specify what kind of medical reasons. People have gone to Kansas to abort 3rd trimester babies with cleft lips.
Which is exactly why I stated "medical necessity". Medical necessity is a United States legal doctrine, related to activities which may be justified as reasonable, necessary, and/or appropriate, based on evidence-based clinical standards of care. Is late-term abortion a reasonable, necessary, and/or appropriate treatment for cleft lips? Absolutely not at all.
OP, you mean to say that killing a post-born human child with forceps is not a crime?
No he means to say that a pre-born and post-born human are the same in every way except location.
If that’s OP’s point, then the use of forceps is irrelevant.
He was using a common abortion procedure to show the hypocrisy of it. It doesn't matter which method he chose. Is your objection that he picked one method over another to make the point..? I don't understand. Killing babies is killing babies no matter where they are located. If you kill them with drugs, you're a murderer. If you kill them with forceps, you're fine.
You said it too.  If you kill a post-born human being with forceps, you are most certainly not fine.  Don’t do this.  You will likely find yourself in prison with a lengthy sentence. My objection is that the manner by which a human being is killed is not the determining factor as to whether it results in a crime (at least the crime of murder).  What matters for purposes of identifying criminal behavior is the subject’s birth status.
That's the point. It's arbitrary as fuck. The difference between pre-born and post-born children is one of location, not form. Location is arbitrary.
If that’s OP’s point, then his/her title didn’t make that point at all. And the difference between pre-born and post-born is not merely location.  It is location with respect to the woman’s body.   Don’t oversimplify the matter.
Not my fault it's a simple matter. My sons were my sons when they were in my body. Because they had their own body. That's exactly where they are meant to be.
But they were unborn because they were inside your body.  The inside/outside the body distinction is what determines birth status (i.e. location with respect to the woman’s body) - not merely “location” If you still believe that “location” defines birth status rather than “location with respect to the woman’s body,” then answer this question.  Name a location anywhere in the Universe where we can send a pregnant woman that will automatically, and by itself, cause birth status to change from pre-born to post-born.
You're making this so much harder than it needs to be. Birth doesn't grant anyone anything. There is no developmental, physiological, or anatomical differences between a child in the womb and child outside the womb. It's location. The idea that birth grants us something special is arbitrary and not based on anything but our own feelings and emotions. I don't think people should live or die based on something as flimsy as that. K


This is extremely disappointing, and those who voted for it should be held accountable.
Makes me sick.
We physically can't stop it until 2019. Since we lost the Alabama seat to a garbage Pro abortion Democrat we can't pass laws like this (49 Dems, Lisa Murkowski and Susan Collins will sink it). Before Mike Pence could have done a tie break but not anymore.
More and more states are banning abortion. Thankfully less and less of this money will be going towards that.

Contrary to the argument in this article, the full pro-life issue is bigger than abortion.
It sure is, although I think it is critical to understand that being pro-life in general and pro-life in only the abortion context are both legitimate viewpoints that are not contradictory, as long as the context is maintained.


WTF California?
The mercies of the wicked are cruel.
If you vote for Democrats this is what you get.

Sounds innocuous enough until you realize they consider killing the unborn a health need...

You said in previous comments that the sever health concern was suicide. Saying that you will kill yourself unless you kill someone else doesn’t justify it in the least.

To be fair though, suicidal people benefit from other therapeutic measures so I don't think it's accurate to assume that either a.) the abortion stopped you from committing suicide and that b.) you would have committed suicide without it. I mean, a kid who was abused by their parent might feel that they would no longer be suicidal if they could kill their mom or dad but we still don't legally allow it. And there are reasons we don't allow it. I think a lot of people on here, (and there are also many who believe in exceptions for rape victims), but the ones that don't, really do not see how killing the baby is any different. In fact, it's seems much worse because in the parent's case they are a guilty perpetrator who one can argue deserves to die. In the case of abortion, the baby is an innocent human being who got stuck in the wrong place at the wrong time.
Don't bother; she's not arguing in good faith. In another thread, she refused to even answer whether she thinks a fetus is a person.
With a kid killing his own parents, the thing is, his parents aren't in his body making him sick; killing the parents isn't the same thing as deciding to not give your body up so that another person can be formed. It wasn't the organism that was in the wrong place at the wrong time; me as a rape victim, i was in the wrong place at the wrong time and i have the right to care for myself after this trauma and have a right to stop trauma from growing into more trauma, aka waiting until labor and childbirth. Again, a kid killing his grown parents isn't the same thing as me, as a rape victim, saying : i'm sick, i cant eat or go to work or school from this sickness, i do not consent to forming a person with my rapist and i don't consent to the pain of forced labor thru rape. I simply don't consent to it and I shouldn't be forced to because that's inhumane.
I don't see the difference? Her parent is outside of her body making her sick. The parent is still making her sick. It seems like you are changing your reasoning here then. Are you allowed to kill the person because they are causing you trauma or because they are attached to you. These are two totally different reasons with totally different conclusions that follow. I think it's fair to say you were both in the wrong place at the wrong time and you both were victims of a brutality that no human being should ever have to face. Perhaps but what I'm saying is that you haven't made a logical case for your belief. Sorry but I really do not see the difference. The abused child may not be able to eat, sleep or continue living knowing that their parent is out there existing. But the problem that pro lifers against the rape exception are telling you is that it is also inhumane to kill the preborn child. The baby did nothing wrong and does not consent to being killed. So there is two people's right that need to be weighted and the right to life (not to be killed) seems to take precedence in most if not all other cases. So, it's not so black and white.
"outside" and "inside" are super different. i dont want to kill anyone, like the kid in your story did; i simply don't consent to using my body , using my womb, using my nutrients and energy and well-being due to it creating a host of incapacitating symptoms. i dont know how the kid in your story was made sick (child abuse like yelling or hitting can make someone sick, sure), but my sickness came from my body being literally used to keep someone else alive. I didn't consent to that, so I am simply removing this organism from its attachment to me. My intention was just to remove the organism harming me (physically, financially, emotionally) that I never agreed to be there in the first place. My reason hasn't changed at all; the trauma comes precisely from it attaching to me without my consent. Sure, an abused kid certainly may not be able to eat or sleep. But it's not because another human being being literally attached to his body growing inside of him, using his energy and well-being and nutrients to grow. My point specifically is, I dont want an organism raped inside of me to grow because I never consented to my womb being used that way, period, much less used because a rapist put it there without my consent. The thing is, that life wouldn't be there if I wasn't raped. I didn't consent to being pregnant from rape. Let's put the blame on the rapist and let me escape my trauma that was raped into me. If someone was killed, blame the rapist for creating that life in the first place when he knew I didnt consent to helping him create it and I never consented to creating a life through rape. I don't want to kill anyone, I just want my body to myself and dont want to be emotionally and physically sick from an organism raped into me, I'm removing this organism that is causing me so much pain, and if the organism can't live without my body helping it, well that's not my fault because I was raped and never consented to this in the first place.
Now you are making a different argument. Exactly when do you think abortion is justified and why? You'll have to make that clear or we will just go in circles. Your trauma may come from that but another person's trauma may not necessitate attachment. You will have to decide whether you think it is the trauma that justifies abortion or the attachment. Do you get what I'm saying here? See your shifting your argument here. First you said that it was the fact that you felt suicidal that justifies killing the baby but now you are suggesting it is because you never consented. Those are two different arguments. You will have to pick which one you believe it is or no meaningful discussion can take place. Again, do you believe that abortion is justified in cases of rape because of lack of consent or is it because of what you mentioned before, because it is causing trauma and suicidal feelings? The two will lead to very different conclusions.

If someone's existence causes you suicidal thoughts, your answer is to murder that person? Good luck getting a judge to hear that in any other situation. Let's face it, this is not about anything other than discrimination and dehumanization of the unborn.
My answer is to remove it from my body  because I never consented to it being there
"It" is a dehumanizing term for a human being. He or she was son or daughter who became a murder victim at a terribly young age. This child was not guilty of their father's crime and had a right to live. You didn't consent to the child in your womb, but did this innocent child ever consent to being their either? How is it justice for one victim to kill another? By far, most abortion supporters would decry executing rapists, but they cry out for the death of the second, forgotten victim - the child. "Removing" a child from the mother's womb is an empty euphemism for killing. Not so different from "removing" a baby from your arms by dropping him or "removing" a child from a ship at sea by tossing her overboard.
Except surgical abortions usually involve a much more brutal method of "removal" , piece by piece with a vacuum. It'd be like ripping apart a born infant then throwing them in the trash. Only chemical abortions could really be even considered a "removal" from the womb, since it separates the uterus from the baby. Even then the baby essentially starves.
To me, it was justice because I didn't have to be forced into the emotional and physical agony of labor and childbirth of something that was raped into me. Again, why can't we blame the rapist for putting me in this position? I never wanted a child. I could not continue this pregnancy and the trauma and emotional/physical agony it brought me every day. Yes, removing the organism ended up killing it, but that's only because we don't currently have the technology to 1) allow me to NOT carry a pregnancy from rape and still allow 2) the organism to still live. If there were artificial wombs, maybe I could've used it. But I could not go through with a pregnancy that was raped into me. A baby dropped from my arms is NOT inside my body using it and hurting me
We are. The rapist, and the rapist alone is to blame. Your son or daughter was not to blame and did not deserve to be murdered. Again, referring to a human being as a "something" is dehumanizing. Your wish to not go through childbirth is understandable, but does not justify murdering an innocent child. It was not justice for you, the child, or the rapist. It was only one victim victimizing another.

This is an appealing argument for abortion because it uses a serious medical condition to justify abortion without giving something too defined. Few people are suicidal, some people are depressed, and most people are sad. Each are linked, and thus the "risk of suicide" applies even to people who are "sad." In effect this says that the few suicides justify abortion on the whole for anyone sad. (I'm not saying you were not suicidal or suffering from prenatal depression, just discussing the overall application of suicidality as a justification for abortion.) There is, however, a large flaw in this justification: if prenatal depression was a justification for abortion, then postpartum depression -linked to proportional numbers of suicides- would be justification for infanticide. We recognize that is not a rational justification for two reasons: 1) an infant is a living human. 2 ) infanticide does not cure postpartum depression. Both reasons apply to abortion.
You say in your post 7 months ago that you got pregnant after you decided to text some guy to "meet up" for the evening and then got so drunk you passed out while he was eating you out and the only thing you said to him when you woke in the middle if it was "do you have a condom on?" I mean yeah he shouldn't have taken advantage of a drunk horny girl and lied about wearing a condom, but technically you never told him to stop. When you woke up you could have simply told him "no!" or "stop!" instead if "do you have a condom?". A guy lying about wearing a condom during a drunken booty call does not equal rape.
wrong, regardless of what the victim says, if they're passed out or coming in and out of consciousness it's always rape, the law literally says that
When you were conscious/able to remember why didn't you tell this guy to stop? You simply asked him if he was wearing a condom or not. Did you report him to the police?
the freeze response is pretty common and scientifically verified, it's the inability to say no or to react in a way that says no due to the shock of what's happening, i was so shocked i got a freeze response, its pretty common. like most victims of rape (~85 -65%), i didnt report to the police, which i dont have to elaborate on or justify to anyone.
No one is a mind-reader. If you don't like what someone is doing to you than let then know, otherwise how are they supposed to figure it out? This guy was probably under the assumption you were into it since you were already letting him eat you out, and while you were having sex with him all you asked about was the condom instead of telling him to get off. If you were actually under the "freeze responce" you would have been partially paralyzed and wouldn't have been able to ask "if he was wearing a condom". If you had reported this it would have been easily dismissed in court. I think you know deep down this wasn't rape, this was just a drunken mistake that ended in pregnancy and now you are just tying rationalize to yourself the elective destruction of a potential person who would be with us right now.
no, the law clearly states that an unconscious person can't consent. literally where are you getting your information, other than a really really biased source? it was 100% rape, no if's and's or but's because a person who isn't awake literally can't consent, and it's the lowest of all lows to say i wasn't a victim of rape just because you don't agree with my medical and health decisions
Do you know you were really unconscious and not just blacked-out? If you drink heavily you can still be awake and responsive but just don't remember it the next day. The point is you never told him to "stop" when you could have.

I’m thinking that you might be wrong here. Having sex with an unconscious person constitutes rape in my books. Did he not know she had passed out? Seems really hard to believe. Obviously I don’t know the details but I think in the end that is irrelevant to the debate at hand here, don’t you? It’s not about her situation specifically but rather whether a rape victim ought to have access to abortion.
I mean neither one of us knows what really happened.  Even this poster says the last thing she remembers before blacking out/passing out was him going down on her. I agree 100% that  if a person is unconscious don't have sex with them! But according to her she admits she woke up or came too during and knew he was having sex with her, and she just asked if he had a condom on. She could have told him "no" at that point.
Hey, that's still rape. She never consented and was drunk so she wasn't in her right mind to give or withdraw consent (if this story is true). I'm learning now that sexual assault is more complicated than we once thought, but even before now, it would be pretty obvious to me that this story is 100% rape. Also waking up from drunken  unconsciousness is not the same as waking up from a nap. Your still not fully functional.
We don't know what happened. If she was passed out then yes it is definitely rape but only up to the point that she woke up and didn't tell him to get off before he ejaculated which she allowed him to do and ended up getting pregnant. All she said is that "she doesn't remember" until she asked him about the condom. Honestly I myself have been so black-out drunk I could still walk and talk/sing but just didn't remember any of it the next day. However both times I was with female friends that I trusted to keep me safe. I would never call up a guy to come eat me out when I was already trashed, unfortunately that's just poor decision-making. I feel sorry for her for how it ended up, it isn't 100% her fault it lies with him too, but honestly it could have been easily prevented by simply not getting plastered and calling guys up in the middle of the night for head.
Again no. You are wrong. Your experience does not invalidate hers. Plus, you said yourself, you were lucky to be with friends who were looking out for you and not some creep. A drunk ass person cannot consent and cannot control themselves. We've seen drunk ass people acting a damn fool, time and time again. Hanging out with some dude and getting drunk does not mean what happened to her was okay or her fault. If she was irresponsible, fine, but that doesn't mean it wasn't rape. So according to you, we should change our laws so if you get drunk and want to hang with a guy, its okay if he rapes you? What if she was murdered by this dude? Would it be okay, because of her actions beforehand? I'm asking this to make a point that you being irresponsible does not mean another person has the right to do harm to you. That's horrible that you would even say that. No we don't know what happened, but based on the story YOU gave, you are dead wrong. Wow!
Like I said before, if you get drunk and pass out and someone has sex with you then yes, that is rape. If this poster did actually pass out (vs just blacking out and still being responsive) then yes it would definitely be rape! If you wake up during the act and tell the person "No! Stop!" and they just keep  going then that is rape too! But if all she asked him was "if he was wearing a condom" then he probably was under the impression she was okay with it.Also technically they were both drinking so by your definition the guy could have also said he was raped because he couldn't give legal consent. In your definition how drunk is too drunk to consent? People don't carry around breathalyzers to make sure their partners are sober enough to have legal sex. I never said women who make bad decisions deserve rape! I don't believe that at all! You are putting words in my mouth to look like a white knight. What I'm saying is this doesn't sound like a rape as much as simple poor decision-making compounded by a lost chance to prevent the pregnancy by telling him to stop when she was "fully conscious" and could have. She never told him to, and made it sound like if he did have a condom on she would have been fine with it. That's not rape that a lie about using a condom which is an incredibly shitty thing to lie to someone about, but it's not rape.

Sure. But he was already raping her at that point if she was in fact unconscious. I mean, it's pretty fucked up if he didn't realize she wasn't moving and that something wasn't right. The whole thing is just really messed up and I wish these things never happened to anyone.
I agree.
Elective abortion isn't healthcare.

Not to be crude, but abortion destroys a lot more than just a bond...good video idea though
I think the article is not titled well and doesn't convey what the videos message is.  It would make more sense to say something like, "New pro-life film shows the special bond a mother has with her baby and how an abortion would rob her of that".
I'm assuming you mean the unborn itself, but there can also be damage to the mother's uterine wall and other parts as well.
Link to video: https://gloria.tv/video/8tHmZHwDLbkx1FdeVe2FYBoLk

Prophecy from mark taylor: Roe vs wade will be overturned.  Roe is a Christian now and regrets everything.  Wait and watch.


My medical school class is given ethics education, and currently I'm rotating in OBGYN. Our discussion involved a woman whose term child needed a C-section because the baby would not survive vaginal birth but the mother refused. A classmate (who is fairly pro-choice) made a good observation: what is the essential difference between an elective abortion and this case where the mother's choice in both instances leads to her child's death? This got me thinking, why do we have laws that allow women to sentence their children to death simply because they do not want the procedure? And should laws be changed to prioritize the right to life of the child in cases like these above the bodily autonomy of the mother?I'm a staunch believer in individual rights, but also very pro-life (related causes to me), so this has been both an interesting and unsettling thought experiment. Because even deeply pro-choice people recognize that this term child who can survive without a doubt outside the womb needs to be delivered, but the mother is essentially choosing death for her child. What do you all think?
Why would a mother refuse C-section if natural birth could kill the baby?
The reason the doctor leading the discussion gave (which was an actual delivery he took part in) was that they did not think it right to have a C-section per their religion (strange to think about, but there are strange religions). He said he did finally get them to agree to it and found out the reason only after the delivery while sitting down with the husband for a cup of coffee.
Wow🤦 What kind of religion would purposely endanger both the baby and the mother...
Some religions believe the body is whole and should never be altered or cut. What kind of religion would make the males have their foreskins cut off for no reason at birth?
I agree on that last part but it's off-topic. Unlike circumcision this is literally a life and death surgery. If the parents go against what the doctors advise and the baby dies as result they should be charged with manslaughter.
Pro-choicers have no leg to stand on if their justification for abortion has anything to do with the mother having full autonomy over anything in her body. It's the sovereign zone argument and it's pretty common. My stance on this is the fetus should be treated as a patient just as much as the mother. I would absolutely support a forced C-section if the mother refused and if a vaginal birth was highly likely to kill the child.
Well, from my (limited) experience on labor and delivery, they do treat both mother and child as their patients. Unfortunately, current law does not allow preferencing the life of the child over the bodily autonomy of the mother. I lean more to the side of the C-section being the right choice and were I in that situation I would advocate for it. I think laws should be changed.
They treat the mother and child as patients because the mother prefers that. If the mother preferred anything else, they'd have to allow (if not respect) that. Fetuses are not patients by law as other humans are.
Well, most of us are pro-life here so the answer is a simple one--a mother should not be able to choose death for her child, except possibly in the extremely rare cases where her life is on the line as well. The discussion sounds like it'd be more interesting with pro-choicers, though. After all, your classmate is right about there not really being a difference between a standard abortion and this scenario. I think a big part of it is that even most pro-choicers feel uncomfortable with a late-term baby being killed (although apparently not half our congress...).
True, my question for other pro-life people is whether or not it is right to force the mother to have a surgery in this case. And I'm so glad my state has a 20 week abortion ban. I was talking with a resident yesterday and she said she had a mother and college-age daughter come to Planned Parenthood (where my institution's OBGYN residents rotate) for an abortion. The mom was clueless about her daughter and didn't realize that she was 36 weeks pregnant. Her daughter also wanted to keep the child. That law saved at least one life.
I think it depends.  If the failure to have surgery is 100% chance of death for the child with 0% chance of death to the mother, then I think it would be all right to force it. However, if you're asking the woman to risk her life over the procedure in any meaningful way, legally at least, I believe she gets to choose. In that instance, the right to life of the child and the woman are balanced, and while I personally think she should choose the child, I would never, ever insist on that by force. The real hazy issue is determining what the "percentage" of survival for either or both of them is.  In that situation, we need a qualified physician to lay out the information in a way that allows the woman (or next of kin in some cases) to make an educated choice. The child and the mother have an equal right to life.  Abortion on demand unbalances that equation to suit the mere standard of living of the mother. However, insisting that the child always wins invalidates the right to life of the mother.  I think the balance of rights means that either the mother chooses, or frankly, the physicians set a standard of care that allows them to run though a checklist to make that decision. In such situations, the best we can do is try our best to do the right thing.  If it is a close decision... we can only do our best to ensure the rights of both parties.
At what point does risking her life become meaningful?
I might start off by asking a physician whether the procedure she is going to undertake puts the mother at a high risk of death due to complications based on her condition and medical history. While C-sections are certainly not the preferred method of delivery, they're fairly common practice, so I don't feel it constitutes an unreasonable accommodation by itself in a life or death situation for the child.  But, as you are likely well aware, that is going to vary based on the situation, and so any law needs to be written to ensure good medical advice.
So this is a different standard -- "high risk" not "risk her life... in any meaningful way." Cesarean births have a higher risk of death than vaginal birth.  You may not feel it constitutes an unreasonable accommodation, but the person whose life is at risk may.
I admit I wasn't making an effort to be precise.  If I was actually legislating, I promise I'd make more of an effort. I agree that C-sections are higher risk, and perhaps a C-section would not be considered a reasonable procedure, but it is not an uncommon one.  I want to be clear that I am not trying to suggest a specific course of action, only point out what the general criteria might be. A closer scenario might be a situation where you need to make the decision on whether to separate conjoined twins.  If you absolutely cannot leave them together, what sorts of decisions would a state need to take to ensure that the rights of both twins were properly accounted for, while still needing to make a decision about who will face the highest risk of death from the procedure.
It's really unpleasant when you hit the conclusion that an adult with capacity who doesn't consent to a surgery is going to be forced to have the surgery. Will somebody grab her and hold her down?  Will a warrant be issued for her if she is not in the hospital? There is a reason that autonomy is important in medical ethics -- and not just in ob/gyn.
Sure, it makes you uncomfortable.  But being uncomfortable is no reason for a human being to die. Having said that, I would hope that such situations could mostly be mitigated by care and effort being taken to provide better advice and options.
I hope it also makes you uncomfortable! I'm all for providing options.

Any physician can 6404 someone whom they believe is a danger either to themselves or others. At least theoretically, how is it any different in this case when the mother would be a danger to the life of her child? In the former case, we over-step a patient's bodily autonomy. Is that right? What makes it different?
However, we don't involuntarily commit people to make them have surgery.  If somebody with capacity to make decisions should have a surgery in order to save their life (or to save somebody else's life!) but they are declining the surgery, I cannot commit them for that reason.

Yes but they are both very safe and it is very uncommon for a mother to die during either. You have a higher chance dying from the flu.
Those aren't great comparisons, since the flu tends to kill older people.
And pregnancy tends to only be a problem for mother's with preexisting conditions or in underdeveloped countries.
I'm calling bullshit. You don't choose for an abortion if you want to keep the child.
Her mom brought her. But you're welcome to not think it was real. The resident is pro-choice and had no reason to lie to me or the other students.
There's lots of room for disagreement here in the pro-life camp :P
I actually think there are some differences in the case presented and abortion. First, we can not know whether a.) the doctor's are truly making the best assessment and b.) what the mother's intentions are. I would assume in this case she probably believes that a vaginal delivery is safer for her child. Also, attempting a vaginal delivery is not at all equal to an abortion because the intent is to give birth not to kill. I actually think these little pieces matter a lot. I think this is more of a question of whether parent's get to make medical decision for their children or if medical personnel has a right to step in with forced medical treatment and a lot less about bodily autonomy. I think it's a very fine line and I would be very wary of forcing a C-Section in this situation. I wonder if you sign those rights away anyway when you admit yourself to a hospital?
The part that makes it a difficult situation is that unless something is wrong with the mother's health, no C-section can be performed against her will. If she needs a C-section for health reasons, it is considered an emergency and unless there is some sort of advanced directive, permission is not required. That's how emergency treatments work in all of medicine. In this way, this is a question about bodily autonomy because the child IS in danger medically and does need to be delivered by C-section, but because the mother refuses and there is no indication for an emergency C-section, none can occur. I do think intentions matter, at least to some degree, but even if the mother wants the best for her baby but refuses a needed C-section which will result in the child's death otherwise, does this not sound similar to abortion where the mother is choosing whether her child lives or dies? Outside of the womb, medical professionals can act on behalf of a child needing treatment against the parent's wishes even to the point of taking the child out of the parent's custody, which while fraught with its own issues, at least preserves the child's life. You can't even do that in this case because of the legal protection of the mother's bodily autonomy over the right to life of the child.
On the other hand, women are routinely pressured into unneccesary C-sections (less commonly now than a few decades ago) and their need is frequently overstated. We are talking about slicing open someone's abdomen and internal organs, which is different than allowing a natural process (pregnancy) to come to fruition and it's natural conclusion (delivery). I don't think refusing a cesarian, even if it's risky to deliver vaginally, is the same as seeking abortion. I think allowing death to occur by witholding medical intervention is different than using medical intervention to cause death.
Even though the death that would occur by withholding could be avoided by doing? I mean, I could make the exact same case about someone who perforated their colon and they are leaking fecal material into their abdomen. I could withhold treatment and the person would die, or I could act and let the otherwise healthy person continue living. The whole point of the intervention is to rectify a pathologic or disease state so that someone can continue living, whether a bowel surgery or the C-section. But if I don't act to clean out the abdomen and close up the bowel and let the person die, knowing full well that this person would live just fine afterward, that is at least negligence or murder at worst. I don't really see a difference between letting someone die who could otherwise live and just directly killing someone except that one is active and the other is passive. To your point about C-sections being forced where not needed, yes, this is a problem. But it is a wholesale different problem from a medically indicated one (either for the child or for the mother).
Yeah. I think there is a difference between lack of medical intervention (specifically medical interventions) or use of medical technology, and actively killing with medical intervention. It's like the difference between euthenasia and withdrawing care.
But with withdrawing care and euthanasia, the patient has no hope of restoration with or without treatment but in this instance the child has the very good chance of living a normal life with the intervention, but death without it. Those are very different.



It's a real shame how far the Democratic Party has fallen. They were originally the more pro-life of the two parties.
Now they're literally just the political division of Planned Parenthood. Pro Life Dems are having to endorse Republicans because there aren't any pro lifers left in the party.
If pro-lifers were equally distributed among democrats and republicans, I'd actually have to reevaluate my political associations. I'm not saying I'd change parties, but I'd at least do my research and consider it.
I think this is what is causing a division in Western culture nowadays. You cannot have a differing opinion of the stereotypical left or right anymore, you must pick a side. I feel if you have any sort of more conservative opinion on a topic and you identify as a liberal, you're going to be under fire. It's a battle of who can virtue signal more and the more radical and politically correct you are, the faster you win that battle. Free thinking is now discouraged.
Although I probably disagree with these Democrats on many other issues, they have my admiration for consistently standing up for children even when the rest of their party has backslid into supporting taxpayer funded homicide.
Objectively here, I would say that both are the parties of death.   One reveres abortion as "women's rights" when the other reveres absolute gun ownership in the time of mass shootings.  Can't we all be reasonable here?   No issue is black and white.  There are exception that I think we are all capable of maneuvering.   Or we could just remain divided and let the big money and corporations play us against each other.   The choice is ours.
Gun violence is a real thing that we should take seriously. But let's not kid ourselves.  In 2014 there were 926,200 abortions almost all of them entirely legal. In 2015, there were 13,286 gun deaths, those all being either accidents or already illegal as murder/manslaughters. As they say, there are people who think the world is flat, and people who believe the world is a perfect sphere.  They're both wrong, but one of those groups is considerably less wrong than the other.
The CDC Abortion Surveillance System reports 642,317 in 47 states + DC, and 652,639 in total.
For 2014 or some other year?
That would be 2014, yes. https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/66/ss/ss6624a1.htm
Gun ownership is a neutral action, since simply owning a gun harms no one.
I'm afraid you're attempting to push a narrative of false equivalency. If gun ownership killed 50% of people in contact with legally obtained guns and gun owners, then you'd have a point. As it stands, the overwhelming majority of guns bought in compliance with current regulations and their owners are not used to commit any crime. The Republican party in no way endorses using those guns to kill innocent people comparable to how the Democrat party makes the legal killing of children a litmus test of its members.
Oh come on, let’s not be silly. When do gun rights people support legal murder?
Well murder should never be legal, but they don't support actions that could save lives.  Like serious background checks.  If a person has a history of violence and mental illness they should be looked at hard before being given weapons. Think about the Vegas shooter.
How can you even compare those two scenarios? One is supporting legalized murder on demand. The other is against murder but believes that less rather than more gun laws will prevent more murders. Do gun rights people... Say how proud they are of the Vegas shooters and his ilk for making "a hard choice"? Refer to shooting victims as clumps of cells, parasites, non-persons? Start campaigns to "shout your mass shooting" because it's time to end the shame and stigma against people who choose gun violence. Demand that the government fund gun-using hitman companies and cover all personal gun purchases which will be used to murder children? Fund worldwide movements aimed at repealing gun-murder laws in other countries? Tell me when one of these comes true, and I'll take the comparison as less than absolute nonsense.
Apples and oranges. Abortion is not the same as gun ownership at all! Everyone condemns the unhinged shooters who take innocent lives whether they own guns or not.

Why is Trump given so much credit for restoring the Mexico City Policy? That's pretty baseline stuff.


Not in Iceland!
That is one of the cutest babies I’ve ever seen

my uncle is on a respirator and is not a fully functioning human, guess we can kill him!
I have to take medicine to regulate my blood pressure and I also use a biPAP. Better kill me.
You joke, but most of these types of people would see nothing wrong with that statement.
I have type 1 diabetes and need insulin to survive. Better kill me!
My husband has narcolepsy and can't actually stay conscious without serious meds and possibly some ear-screaming. I should kill him because he's not a functioning human being without all that help.
I couldn’t survive in the wilderness, the only hunting I do is hunting for snacks at the cafeteria. Guess I’m done for too!
do we need /r/protolife?
Yes. Yes we do.
Anytime I hear the "need support to survive" thing, I wonder what they would think about taking an infant out back and burying a hatchet in its skull, or taking a dependent adult disabled child out back and chopping off their head ISIS style. After all, they can't support themselves and they're a terrible burden that restricts the freedom of the parents, right? I have yet to meet an intellectually consistent pro-choicer. Either that speaks to the people who hold that view, or the view itself. I think it's the latter, personally.
We will probably see this in our lifetimes. Eugenics has an alarming amount of support.
That and assisted suicide. People are surprisingly okay with discarding the lives of the mentally unwell.
I know this is off-topic but I'm just wondering about your own personal opinion. What if the person is "mentally well" but has a condition that  puts them in constant agony (Edit: that modern medicine can not cure) and they know 100% they want to die?
We already have close to eugenics every time a disabled baby is put to death in the womb.
But those methods of termination are so brutal and savage. Abortion is done in an operating room, and clean, easy, and safe for everyone involved. /s
yea, a lot of abortions now aren't even surgical. You take a pill and it essentially kills the developing baby. Then you have a pretty uncomfortable heavy period as your body pushes out the baby. I think better terminology would be medically induced miscarriage but this is a prolife subreddit.
Yes I’m aware. Still takes a life.
Believe me, they're more logically consistent than you think.  Come to Canada where the federal government has now sanctioned "medically assisted suicide".
I try really hard to be intellectually consistent. I am vehemently pro-choice, but this subreddit has convinced me that fetuses are humans. Saying a fetus isn't a human isn't even a good argument even if it was true. If someone killed their own dog everyone would think that's pretty messed up. I still don't feel like it takes away from the argument that a mother can terminate her pregnancy as she wishes. Naturally, there are caveats. Abortion is a medical procedure and doctors should only perform them if it safe for the mother. Later in a pregnancy, it's safer to induce delivery than it is to kill the baby. My main point is that terminating pregnancy and killing the baby aren't necessarily the same thing. Of course, for the majority of the time, it is, but there are times when it could be possible to terminate the pregnancy and save the life of the baby. This is why I think the abortion argument really boils down to which human involved in pregnancy is given priority. I think the desire of the women to not be pregnant trumps the desire of the baby to be alive. Poke holes if you'd like but I understand if you're not in the mood. I have no problem with taking steps to reduce the number of abortions in the world. My friend visited Cuba and she had a great time, but one thing she noticed was the culture about abortion was very different than in the US. She said that many 20 yr olds use abortion as birth control essentially. Boyfriends tell their girlfriends, don't worry, you can just get an abortion. This culture is definitely harmful. First off because getting multiple abortions can't be good. It's the same as having to get multiple surgeries on a single organ, it takes a toll on your body over time. And the dynamic between men and women is pretty toxic if men are telling women all nonchalantly they should just get an abortion. It's an uninformed way to go about sexual relationships. This is why I see the best way to reduce abortions is to increase sex education. I know this is an intense pivot but sex education is the ONLY way people can make informed decisions. And I think sex education, specifically to women, is the most important so they are aware of what is sex, what is pregnancy, how do I prevent pregnancy, how do I have the most successful pregnancy, what can I do I if I don't want to be pregnant. These are daunting and taboo topics that many parents don't even explicitly share with their kids. That was a rant.
Welcome to the subreddit. I actually agree with you about a few things, particularly the harmful effect abortions can have on an individual and a culture. I'd like to hear why you feel the mother's desire to not be pregnant trumps the baby's right to life.
I've been called a postnatal supremacist on this subreddit before. It was a bit jarring but I've thought about that label. I do believe that people who have been born are superior to those who have not been born. So, the mother is born, the baby is not. There is something about birth that is a simple, definitive, observable marker between having agency and not having agency.
What about born people who end up dependent on machines to survive? I mean frankly your position seems pretty wobbly. Why would a human being need agency to be protected, rather than just being protected because they're a human being?
What about people who need machines to live? They should keep on doing that! Please let me know if this is contradictory. Agency might have been the wrong word. My main point is that a woman should be able to terminate her pregnancy. If the baby's life can be maintained then it should be. There is no other scenario I can think of that is comparable to pregnancy.
Well perhaps it would help if you clarified what you mean by "agency" and why this matters as far as who gets the right to life?
In the specific scenario of pregnancy, we're always talking about a mother and her child. This relationship is super unique to pregnancy and I see the mother as being the dominant and authoritarian decision maker about this relationship. The unborn child doesn't get any input. Once the child is born the mother no longer has this kind of totalitarian authority over her child. I think this what I mean by agency.
No offense but you're just repeating yourself: that one party has physical power over the other. That doesn't really explain why one should have the right to kill the other.
I'm not offended and you're right. If anything I feel like my position is pretty offensive. A mother has power over her child. When in the womb that mother has so much power that she can kill her child.

My mother had two abortions. It was safe, legal, rare in the 70s, right? Ha, ha. Her husband dragged her, sobbing, to the abortion clinic. Feminism in action! It scarred the shit out of her uterus. They think it is one reason I had IUGR (and then I was  delivered at a bit over 26 weeks after my parents were nearly bullied into aborting me because I was better off dead as my mother was so sick the pregnancy was literally killing her). My stepmom had an abortion. Destroyed her uterine tissue. She could never have children. Abortion is very damaging mentally and physically to the woman. And of course always kills a baby.
Infants drink their mothers' milk, literally consuming another organism's bodily fluids, so I guess we can kill those parasites too?
You joke, but this is a real position thst people support.
You joke, but this is a real position thst people support.
You joke, but this is a real position thst people support.
So make abortion after "viability" illegal. How many years away from "viability" and "conception" being the same thing are we? Not very many.
So this is the dream, right? If we could remove babies from the uterus and let them develop in an artificial womb then we solve all the problems. Women get to terminate their pregnancies all they want. Maybe women don't ever have to be pregnant!! It feels dystopian but the crux of the issue with abortions is that women want to not be pregnant but society doesn't like killing children.
Frankly I think this is BS. Pose this question to pro-choice women, particularly ones looking to abort, and many if not most will reject it. They will justify that by saying they don't want their offspring out in the world, that they'd feel responsible for them or couldn't stand the heartache. For most women, abortion has nothing to do with not being pregnant; it has to do with killing their offspring.
You're right. Most women likely get abortions so they don't have to raise a child, but many people put their children up for adoption at birth. I also think many women hesitate to get abortions because it kills their child. I don't think any mother wants to kill their child, it's just they don't want to raise a child and they don't want to be pregnant.
But that's not what I said and not what a lot of pro-choice women say. It's not about not having to raise the kid, otherwise adoption would solve the issue. Rather, they don't want someone to adopt their kid. They would rather their kid "not exist" (or in reality, be dead). Parents do want to kill their kids, but I think in many cases they just don't see it as killing their kids. They see it as preventing reproduction.
Adoption doesn't solve the issue because they are still pregnant. Some women don't want to go through the 9 months of pregnancy and prenatal care. Adoption probably does solve the issue of an unplanned pregnancy for a lot of women but others don't want to go through the work of having a successful pregnancy.
I'm not sure if you're just not reading what I'm writing or what. You keep saying women just don't want to be pregnant. I'm saying no, if you go ask them, that's not the issue. If you propose to a group of pro-choicers, "hey guys, what would you women say if we had this machine that could just transfer your fetus to an artificial womb and then a couple could adopt them?" They'd say "fuck no." And, in my experience, they justify it by saying they would not want their kid "out in the world" because they'd still feel responsible for them. I don't know any pro-choice women who would be down for the artificial womb. This leads me to conclude that abortion is really not about "not being pregnant" as you assert. Abortion is about "not reproducing" for women, which in reality translates into killing their child.
Maybe you're right. I've never really talked to someone who is about to get an abortion. People I've talked to that have gotten abortions never express glee in their child's death, it's more relief that they aren't a parent.
Creeps me out so much though. So much potential for things to go badly.
Yea, a lot of stuff can go wrong with pregnancy also. This is why mothers need pre-natal care.
I doubt that women are going to start using artificial wombs as an alternative to pregnancy. Either way, my point is that "viability" is the pro-choice movement painting itself into a corner.
Viability is kind of on a case by case basis. No baby is viable in the first 2 trimesters, but as we get late into the third trimester there is some wiggle room as to when a baby can survive outside the womb. If it is actually measurable, it could be an excellent way for healthcare providers to determine if they could just take the baby out early.
https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation-now/2017/11/14/mom-delivers-earliest-premature-baby-ever-and-chooses-resuscitate-miracle-aughter-now-healthy-toddle/861386001/
Okay "Ashley", who is going to school for a nonsense degree but can't afford any thing so your parents are paying for everything - school tuition, apartment, food, bills, car, etc... Those are most of the pro-choicers I have come into contact with who use this same argument >___<
Anyone with a pacemaker? Artificial heart? (Name of organ) transplant? Coma? Iron lung? Yeah now they all die because they can't live alone either. Really thought this "host" argument through eh?
What I find hilarious is that pro-choicers often seem to just say ... words .... that they think sound "sciencey" to back up their opinions, all while self-righteously calling the person they're talking to idiots. The irony is just incredible.
Yeah it's weird. I rarely meet someone I can discuss the topic with. Because exchanging biological definitions is half the battle.
A host to survive? Kinda like people on welfare?
This is so messed up. Most people on welfare work very hard, and are not just sitting around waiting for their check to come in. I wish people would stop perpetuating these stereotypes to make themselves feel important, and actually research the myths about welfare and poverty in the US. Also, this is a pro life forum. Leave your political ideologies out of it, if they are irrelevant please.
You totally missed my point. It‘s not my argument, that someone who needs a host/a system to survive is less of a human. It‘s their argument. I just flipped it to another subject to prove how despicable it is. Also, I didn’t talked bad about people on welfare. So maybe it‘s really you that needs to step away from political ideologies.
Is this serious?
An important point to note is that there's a reason why the word "protohuman" refers to a species that's almost human. That reason is that there's no such thing as an individual organism that becomes human at some point in its lifespan; that's not how species work.
I'm sure the irony is lost on her because she doesn't even know what protohuman means.
We should have someone head over there and genuinely offer to help anyone who feels they could use a refresher on basic reading, logic, or research skills. Also some history. I'm very concerned for them.
There are "pro-science" circumcisers too, using scientific jargon and intellectualization to justify an act of vile cruelty on an infant. So-called "science" can be used to justify just about anything, right or wrong.
Well what's funny is she's not using science at all. She's just making shit up.

Junk science is junk science, no matter the point of view, and a better job should be done to make sure the science isn't junk. Unproven just means Unproven, which means the proper science on how it works should still be done. The only "study" I found that adressed the issue is: https://doi.org/10.1345/aph.1R252 which isn't even a real study, but just a report on 6 individual cases, (4 positive results, 2 negative results) and which also notes that a PubMed literature search from 1996 to May 2012 did not reveal any trials or case studies evaluating the efficacy of progesterone use to reverse the effects of mifepristone. Someone should do the science properly.

While not directly a pro-life event, I think this has some bearing on pro-life causes - since bragging about killing kids with this syndrome is now and then a point of pride for the pro-abortion.
I love this thank you!
What I find interesting are my pro-abortion friends sharing this going on about how cute he is, then the cognitive dissonance shocks me because they were cheering Iceland's killing all babies with Down syndrome.
Please provide evidence of that claim.
Are you asking me to provide evidence that some people celebrate eliminating children with Down's Syndrome, or evidence that the zealously pro-unborn-infant-slaughter are terrible people? Asking for clarity.
This person is rabidly pro-abortion and a childfree advocate, don’t bother engaging.
https://www.cbsnews.com/news/down-syndrome-iceland/ I mean, it's not hard to find
How are they ‘ celebrating it ‘?
Here's a good example: https://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/4s7f01/what_useless_but_interesting_fact_have_you/d57k34o/?st=jdeljgfy&sh=3b71f1ba Check the comments and see which positions have the most upvotes and downvotes.
Thanks
‘Celebrate eliminating Down syndrome ‘. Yes some prochoice people believe women should be able to end a pregnancy with a Down syndrome baby . That’s why 90 percent of women who decide to take the test and receive a positive result abort. I have never seen it celebrated .
https://www.cbsnews.com/news/down-syndrome-iceland/
What a cutie!
Maybe next they can stop excluding DS babies from their life insurance.
I don't know if I'm just dumb or what, but I always have a really hard time seeing the difference between Downs' babies and other babies.
Maybe you haven't been around many? I've been around a decent amount, so it's pretty easy for me. I think they're all cute though, except when they're stinky. :P
I only see them in pictures, I don't get to be around many babies :( Regardless, this babie is adorable.
I think kids(and people?) with Downs' have more "squinty" eyes. Not to be insensitive.



I guess because the alternative is to kill babies?

That wasn't the question.  Your question stemmed from a satiric article that hurt your feelings because it compared a woman who led an organization that performed over 300,000 abortions a year to a demon or Kim Jong Un. You found this un-Christian, and purported not to understand why anyone would be pro-life when some people who are pro-life say mean things in satiric articles. The answer to your question is that abortion kills a human being. Hurt feelings come, and hurt feelings go, but those human beings are never coming back.

Do you have evidence that PP is responsible for reducing the abortion rate? I understand that abortions are lower now than they were in the '90s, but what proof is there that it's because of PP?
Sure. There's strong evidence to suggest the organization's existence helps limit the procedure's frequency. Some good sources: https://www.newyorker.com/news/daily-comment/planned-parenthood-means-fewer-abortions http://www.wbur.org/npr/509734620/u-s-abortion-rate-falls-to-lowest-level-since-roe-v-wade https://www.guttmacher.org/news-release/2017/us-abortion-rate-continues-decline-hits-historic-low https://www.bustle.com/p/does-planned-parenthood-reduce-abortion-rates-republicans-are-ignoring-this-key-fact-30933
Thanks for the links. I went through each one trying to keep as open a mind as possible. The first link is unconvincing. Not only does it rely on half-truths that PP have put out (such as the infamous 3% number and the idea that none of their funding supports abortion services), but the author fails to explain a correlation between PP and the decreasing abortion rate. Why does it champion PP as this organization that's going around educating "young girls and boys" about how to prevent getting pregnant? Simply because it offers contraception? That's hardly a PP-exclusive service. The second link has a similar issue, although it at least takes the pro-life perspective in consideration in addition to PP's comments. The only mention of PP is the president of PP saying that more contraception has made for a lower abortion rate. The third link doesn't even mention PP, and in fact raises the possibility that more punitive abortion restrictions could be cause for the lowered rate. The fourth link goes into more detail, but when I try to follow the links for solid evidence, I wasn't able to find much. One redirects to the WBUR link up above, one is a broken link to a PP page that doesn't work anymore. As a result, I can really only work with the article's own reasoning, which isn't terribly strong. They cite that 3% number again and make several assumptions. I will concede one thing--more Americans using contraception results in less abortion because there are less pregnancies altogether. And PP does provide contraception. But so do any of the tens of thousands of pharmacies in America, as do plenty of clinics and, in fact, thousands of volunteer-run pro-life centers that provide freebies. If PP JUST did women's health care and provided contraception without the abortion, they certainly wouldn't be targeted by pro-lifers like they are now. But our issue isn't with the potential pregnancies that didn't happen based on contraception, it's with the hundreds of thousands of annual deaths that DO happen when contraception fails.
I appreciate you being open-minded and committed to civil discourse. And I will concede the links were not as informative or evidence-based as I thought they would be. However, after a second look, I have looked at the issue and I still stand by my original claim. I would like to respond to a few things. While there are some issues about the 3% number. And I will readily concede that too, the main point here is that Abortion is not the main service that PP provides and is actually a smaller part of what they do in relation to many other of their services which I will get to in a moment. Many reputable and independent fact checkers have looked into this claim and suggest the same thing, while the 3% may be a bit off, abortion is still a minimum of what PP does. https://www.factcheck.org/2015/09/planned-parenthoods-services/ http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/statements/2011/apr/08/jon-kyl/jon-kyl-says-abortion-services-are-well-over-90-pe/ https://www.azcentral.com/story/news/politics/fact-check/2017/07/14/fact-check-planned-parenthood-abortion-services/448575001/ We have to look at the context of the situation here. PP is the largest provider of Birth Control and Contraception. They provide services that the majority of other such centers cannot match. In fact, in many places, PP is the sole provider of contraception and birth control, especially for low-income women. http://thehill.com/policy/healthcare/252974-study-planned-parenthood-often-provides-only-contraception-available And many studies have shown that the number reducer of abortion is contraception. This is why the evidence shows that Planned Parenthood prevents abortion rates because a huge family service provider, they provide necessary contraceptives and birth control that has huge effects in reducing the abortion rate. https://medicine.wustl.edu/news/access-to-free-birth-control-reduces-abortion-rates/ I ask you to consider the inverse postulation on the consequences of what happens when Planned Parenthood is defunded? Texas provides us with adequate results. As shown in a study by Miami University economics professor Analisa Packham and published in the Journal of Health Economics. "Although the primary stated objective of the funding cuts was to decrease abortion incidence, I find little evidence that reducing family planning funding achieved this goal… The results indicate that the funding cuts increased abortion rates by 4.9 percent 1-2 years after the funding cuts and 3.1 percent over three years." https://www.academia.edu/19435560/Family_Planning_Funding_Cuts_and_Teen_Childbearing What we found, in this case, is that defunding Planned Parenthood actually increased the abortion rate, and cause more issues as well several socioeconomic consequences. https://thinkprogress.org/texas-family-planning-cuts-3ed9f259c98e/ You mention volunteer Pro-Life Centers and CPC's. I will get to more of them later, but when Planned Parenthood was defunded we didn't see anything from the numerous Pro-Life centers in the state. They couldn't replace PP and could not provide the same coverage of services. http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/opinion/zorn/ct-planned-parenthood-defense-videos-abortion-perspec-zorn-0805-jm-20150804-column.html The consequences were simply numerous: "100,000–240,000 Texas women ages 18 to 49 have attempted to terminate a pregnancy on their own (that is, without help from a licensed medical professional). According to the authors, “the populations we found to be most familiar with abortion self-induction are among those that have been most directly affected by the closure of abortion clinics in the state.” As a result, the study predicts, “abortion self-induction will increase as clinic-based care becomes more difficult to access.” http://blogs.harvard.edu/billofhealth/2015/11/18/texas-self-induced-abortion-and-an-ode-to-justice-powell/ http://sai-dc.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Minimizing-Abortion-Final-Draft.pdf I wanna make a final point about CPC's. You mention that most of them provide contraception. That is clearly false.  They rarely provide any such birth control and contraception services and many have known for providing false information. They do not reach the amount of care that Planned Parenthood services provide. http://go.nationalpartnership.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=36039&news_iv_ctrl=0&abbr=daily3_ https://www.guttmacher.org/journals/psrh/2012/09/public-health-risks-crisis-pregnancy-centers https://journalistsresource.org/studies/government/health-care/crisis-pregnancy-centers-abortion Thanks for being civil and open-minded. I still stand by my original claim, however.
Whoa! That's a pretty massive list. I'll do my best to try to address it all. Roughly 1/8th of the people going to PP get an abortion--it's technically a minority, but to pro-lifers, that's still a pretty large amount of people. I think focusing on this too much for this particular conversation might be getting off the subject, though, so it might be best to move on. Your next few links are pretty solid at establishing a connection between contraception, PP and birth control. It does seem like a number of counties don't have enough options for contraceptive without PP. From the pro-life perspective, though, the formula of "(conceptions prevented) minus (number of abortions done) = still a net positive number" still doesn't justify the number of abortions that happen through PP. It's also important not to conflate "unwanted pregnancy" with "guaranteed abortion." To match PP's current numbers of some 300,000+ abortions a year, there'd have to be a lot of guaranteed abortions prevented. It's also worth keeping in mind that in a lot of studies like these "contraception" often lumps together numerous types of birth control, including abortifacients. And to most pro-lifers, eliminating a zygote or preventing one from implanting is as on the same level as an abortion. Not to mention things like RU486 which can kill a 4-7 week old fetus. Your ThinkProgress link (which directly mentions a link between defunding PP and raising the abortion rate) seemed like a more direct answer. However, I found two issues with getting a straight answer from it. First, it only mentions that the rate of teenager abortions went up; the lack of information about non-teen abortions makes me suspect that they're hiding information. Secondly, I couldn't actually find evidence of even this teenage increase in abortion based on the links ThinkProgress provided in the article. I read through the research paper they linked to and didn't find anything about raised abortion rates--only about an increase of births after the defunding happened. Fair enough on the CPC links; it sounds like some of them provide (non-abortifacient) contraception but many do not. I haven't really changed my mind about PP based on the information provided, but you did give me something to think about regarding providing more free options to women who aren't pregnant yet. Again, if PP was solely providing contraception and other health services without the abortion, they would be far less scrutinized. Lastly, I would like to leave a link suggesting the opposite of what yours posit--abortion rates are consistently higher in states with more lax laws about abortion. http://www.cbsnews.com/pictures/25-states-with-most-abortions/26/ States with most abortions in 2008 (per 1,000 women): 10. Rhode Island: 22.9 09. Connecticut: 24.6 08. Nevada: 25.9 07. Florida: 27.2 06. California: 27.6 05. Maryland: 29.0 04. Washington DC: 29.9 03. New Jersey: 31.3 02. New York: 37.6 Delaware: 40.0 All of these are "blue" except for Nevada and Florida, which are kind of purple, depending on who you ask. https://top5ofanything.com/list/047aa5ee/U.S.-States-with-the-Highest-Abortion-Rates States with most abortions in 2011 (per 1,000 women): 05. New Jersey: 27.1 04. Delaware: 28.4 03. Washington DC: 28.5 02. Maryland: 28.6 New York: 34.2 All are blue. States with the lowest abortion rate in 2011 (per 1,000 women): 05. Idaho and Utah: 5.4 04. Kentucky: 4.6 03. South Dakota: 3.9 02. Mississippi: 3.7 Wyoming: 1.1 All are red. Thanks for the lengthy discussion! It's kind of interesting arguing with a pro-choicer who's not just saying that I hate women. ;)
None of those links support your claim that PP was primarily responsible for the abortion rate decline. The first and last link just assert that PP has prevented abortions but provide zero actual data. The middle two mention contraception as a possible factor in the abortion decline but that's not the same as proving the decline was caused by PP per se. Ross South at wrote an article a few years ago responding to the "PP prevents abortion" argument that makes some good points. https://douthat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/08/05/there-is-no-pro-life-case-for-planned-parenthood/
I responded with more links and greater studies that support my original claim. I encourage you to view them. I did take a look at your article and while it was well written, I did have several issues with it. The Author Mentions the differences in Abortion Rates between Liberal and Conservatives States, and how liberal states have very high abortion rates and thus social policies don't work. However, when studying the factors that contributed to the abortion decline we saw that five of the six states with the biggest decline in abortion rates “have passed no recent laws to restrict abortion clinics or providers. In fact, in some cases, these states had lower overall rates compared to red states. https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2015/06/american-abortion-rate-decline/395960/ https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/18/opinion/sunday/blue-states-red-states-values.html The author makes some points about Contraception that were refuted in a comment I provided earlier. While he wrote a very informative first half that was objective, the second half of the article where he cited the CMP and other Extreme Pro-Life groups, was more opinionated. I do appreciate you sharing the article though.
Yes, but as Douthat mentioned, many of these states started out with higher abortion rates and had more room to fall. Putting that aside though, I'm not sure how this proves the decline was caused by PP or even birth control. Abortion rates are declining in blue states. Okay, but there could be many reasons for this. It doesn't prove PP caused it. This article says that abortion rates in red states are lower than blue states...so not sure what your purpose of citing it is. It doesn't even mention PP. I looked at your other links, and many of them are flawed. PP being the only Title X clinic in a county doesn't mean its the only clinic in the area. Many women could go to a different county in a few minutes since counties are typically pretty small. This study used a non-representative sample of volunteers so the results can't be assumed to apply to the general population. The women in that study were a very specific subset: they were willing to change their method of birth control, they volunteered for the study, and most had past experience with an unintended pregnancy. This is not representative of the general population. Figure 7 of this study indicates that the slight increase in teen abortion reversed itself in 2014. Plus abortion rates (for all ages) in the whole state of Texas dramatically decreased between 2011-2014. This study was a complete joke. Reading the whole thing, the researchers didn't ask whether or not the woman was living in Texas when the self-induction happened, or even when it happened, so a woman who tried to induce 30 years ago in another state or country would have been included in those results. It has no proof at all that the rate of self-induction increased. Again, this paper's thesis is weak. It cites that joke of a study claiming that Texas self-abortion increased, and then cites the previous St. Louis study (which was non-representative) as well as the Colorado study (the results of that were really not that great, see my post here) Then it assumes that defunding PP will result in more abortions, but again, it just makes that assumption, it doesn't cite real data. When we do look at real data, abortion rates in states less friendly to PP are lower than states more friendly to PP and subsidized birth control. The fact that some blue states have had large abortion declines does not change this. Red states still have lower rates, even when including people who go out of state. If having PPs around was a huge factor in keeping the abortion rate low, then I'd expect red states less friendly to them to have higher rates. I appreciate you citing sources, but I really don't think any of them support the claim that PP is primarily responsible for abortion declines.

The problem with Cecilia Richards is she ran an organization that killed over 300,000 of those other images of God every year.  I reckon that thickened up her skin a bit.  Hate to think this satire had her crying into her fetal tissue, it might damage the re-sell value.
Most Americans don't know what Roe actually said and don't realize that abortion won't be illegal if it's overturned. Questions about Roe aren't a good measure of abortion attitudes.
A large percentage of younger Americans don't even know that Roe was about abortion.
Studies have also shown that education doesn't equal intelligence. The more educated you are, the more you may be able to justify your own arguments to yourself, and to overestimate your competence, abilities, and knowledge.
That wasn't the full point. OP assumed that people are pro-choice because they don't know what abortion is and they are like to "kill babies". I provided evidence that shows those who are pro-choice tend to have higher levels of education, thus making it highly unlikely they don't understand what abortion is. Also to note postgraduates in education tend to be highly pro-choice. I don't think anyone could argue that the majority of those who are pursuing 4 plus years of education are simply ignorant on this issue. http://news.gallup.com/poll/154946/non-christians-postgrads-highly-pro-choice.aspx
You can be educated and still be very wrong. Their level of education doesn't give their opinions merit. That's my point. Education doesn't equal intelligence, and intelligence doesn't mean your opinions are right. Hitler's was extremely intelligent. Should we then gather evidence to show a correlation between intelligent people and anti-semitism? If there is a relationship, shall we then declare that "intelligent people hate Jews, thus proving it's right to kill them." Despite the original post, you are making the wrong conclusion to statistics. Educated people aren't more likely to be right about moral issues. Abortion, when it comes down to it, is a moral issue. We have science on side, yes, but if you think there's nothing inherently valuable about human beings, you're never going to agree. Level of education just means you're more likely to assume your opinion has more merit than an uneducated persons opinion. It doesn't.
Just curious, when are you going to drop your Dr. Kaplan copy-pasta on us?
I'm not a Christian so can I call her those things? I'm not concerned with showing respect for a person with that much blood on her hands. I'm not gonna wish something bad happens to her, but I'm sure as hell not going to pretend she wasn't evil as shit.
Hillary Clinton compared pro-lifers to terrorists. And that wasn't satire. https://thinkprogress.org/hillary-clinton-compares-anti-abortion-republicans-to-terrorists-91a37dff987f/
Well, now we can't be on either side!
You are right on the hyperbole part but wrong  in assuming everyone here is Christian. I'm agnostic for instance.
I concede that everyone here may not be Christian, but my original comment was geared towards the majority of Pro-Lifers who do have religious views.
It's short-sighted and ignorant to take this stance. Being pro-choice or pro-life is not a religious issue, it is a personal issue.
What was the turning point for you? Was it a certain argument you hadn't considered before? Was it a speech you listened to? I'm very interested to hear!
I always heard "If you support women's rights, then you must support abortion". Then I learned to think for myself and came to the conclusion that killing a human has nothing to do with women's rights.
My mom wore a shirt the other day that said "women's rights are human rights." I asked her "you know what else has human rights...?" "What?" "...humans." She rolled her eyes. She is not pro-life.
I would probably still be pro-choice if I hadn't met my husband. I feel silly now thinking about how stupid I must have looked trying to convince him that babies in the early stages aren't really babies and that you can't tell a woman what to do with her body, blah blah blah. I guess over time, and getting pregnant myself, I started to really understand the implications of what I was saying. There was no big moment. There was no sudden realization. I can't even tell you when the change happened. It was very gradual. My husband never argued about it, he would simply explain why he though it was wrong, and he was always very patient and tolerant of what I had to say. More than I probably would have been, looking back at it. God I was ridiculous. I struggled with it for a while because my family is neck deep in everything democrat. They just eat that shit up, and it makes no sense to me. There is no gradient, it's all or nothing, and abortion fits right along with that. I will never understand how people think humans can fit into two rigid categories like that. It just doesn't work. But that's another discussion entirely.... Anyways...Here I am 10 years later thinking about how to open a secular crisis pregnancy center and how I can do more to save the babies. I just love babies.
I was Muslim. Abortion is okay in Islam for 120 days because Muslims don't believe the offspring has a "soul". That was my reasoning, as well as  ''babies go to heaven". When I left Islam, I re-examined my other beliefs, I became pro-life.
I'm a recently converted pro-lifer maybe about a couple months ago. I'm a couple months away from being done high school and in high school, we're taught about pro-choice ideology in sexual education before we're taught how pregnancy/fetus development even works on a biological level. Not only learning about this development of the fetus, numerous dives into scientific evidence about how the fetus develops, watching speakers such as Ben Shapiro speak about pro-life, and overall just watching videos of abortions was enough for me to make the obvious choice. I've found that when watching pro-choice vs pro-life debates, I found the only argument that pro-choicers would use is that it's the choice. How I come up with viewpoints and opinions in life is heavily revolved around scientific evidence. After doing all this research, one fundamental way I see life is that every human being has the equality of opportunity, not equality of outcome. Also I'm super happy to become pro-lifer as pro-lifers don't care what's between your legs when arguing on abortion, they argue for the human. Pro-choicers always mention how I'm a male and that I have no right to comment on abortion whatsoever. Definitely cannot associate myself with people who claim to fight sexism and then pull that.
For me, it was learning about fertilization and embryology in my biology class as a teenager. It was so clearly unmistakable that the unborn are human beings just the same as us. The same day, we were taught that "there's nothing wrong with getting an abortion, but some religious fundamentalists are against it because they believe it prevents a potential life". It was honestly a turning point not just in how I thought about abortion, but my entire worldview. I realized that no, my country/culture/humanity is not particularly humane, civilized or good. People who claim to be for science and progress are not as idealistic as they say: they are just as biased, emotional and selfish as everyone else. In the face of overwhelming obvious evidence people will continue to believe in morals that are convenient for them. I was still an atheist at the time, but it was a big push to leaving atheism.
Somewhat similar for me. I was was doing some cell culture in graduate school and was pondering about how complex the cellular mechanisms that I was studying were and how I would never be able to attribute such observations to random chance. I can remember sitting at the cell culture hood and thinking how absurd it was to think all of this came about by chance. I still find it truly baffling how most of my colleagues seem to accept macro evolution as fact let alone even plausible. I know this is not directly pro-life related but it was clear to me at this point that life began at conception and was truly a miracle and I could not rationalize abortion based on that.
Personally I am strongly Catholic and I see nothing wrong with the idea that life can very substantially change forms over time. This does not even contradict the idea of God as creator. If anything it's a testament to His power. I'd say maybe life did come about by chance— but only as much as anything really can happen "by chance". I believe everything that happens is either caused by God, or caused by creatures and allowed by God. God chose to set up the world how He did, which has resulted in life, in one way or another.
The evidence is that there is a design. The complexity of how mRNA is created by reading DNA sequences and then sent to the Endoplasmic Reticulum where proteins are created by reading the mRNA and joining amino acids into proteins is not something that any reasonable person could claim to be completely random. And this is just one small micro fraction of the complex system that we have observed up until this point. This is why I find it disturbing that so many very intelligent people stand behind the idea of maco-evolution as being the vehicle for our existence. People like Stephen Hawking and even Richard Dawkins are obviously very intelligent individuals but yet their own dogma refuses to allow them to see the truth that is so self evident. Natural Selection is an observable process but to make the leap that it is somehow responsible for development of completely different organisms is frankly not believable.
having a child
Simple and straight to the point. How can anyone hold their newborn baby and at the same time think it was perfectly acceptable to murder it just minutes prior.
Most pro choice people don’t support elective abortion that far in.
Is that why you guys filibustered a 20 week abortion ban?
Because politicians always do what the populace wants?
Based on the blocking of a recent bill, our senators certainly do... (grumble grumble)
So they only want to murder children when they don't yet look like babies? It is either wrong or it isn't.
Why not?   It seems like the bodily autonomy argument, for one thing, makes no sense if you accept that you can "force" a woman to accept any unborn child in her sovereign territory even as late as the minute before birth. Personally, I don't like the bodily autonomy argument at all, but it feels to me like it only really is applied when it is most convenient, and that makes it rather suspect.
Bodily autonomy still works. If she wants it out at that point you can induce or perform a c section.
You could, but why would it be permissible to require that?

They don't have to be done before 24 weeks, that's just a nice talking point people use to justify it. Late term abortions are a thing. Edit a word.
I remember when Hilary Clinton said on the View how she thinks abortion should be allowed up until an hour from birth and how the media was like "what! No, no one does that nope, not at all." Even my cousin's wife in Denver (who is a nurse) was like "No, no no one does that nope, not at all." Guess what you can go google and find in the state of Colorado >___<

Actually most 20 week or later abortions are purely elective.
Not even close. Also if it's that late, why not just remove it alive instead of killing it first. Can you please think about what you're saying before you say it?
That is simply not true. They can happen all the way up until birth. That is what a partial birth abortion is called. Are you saying it is OK to kill the baby as long as he/she does not look too much like a fully formed human?
I was in the “I’m a man I don’t have the right to tell a woman what to do with her body” camp. Then I heard the scientific arguments for the humanity of the unborn and the philosophical logic for their personhood. Ever since I’ve found the pro-choice position logically incoherent.
I was never an extremely strong pro-choicer but I used to believe that abortion should be legal in the early stages (around up to 10 or 12 weeks) though I did feel it was morally wrong. This article was the main turning point for me. At that point I was questioning my stance on abortion but hadn't fully changed it until I read that.
I was never staunchly pro choice, but I come from a pro choice household and always looked at the "life begins at conception crowd" as a bunch of religious nuts. It wasn't until I started getting into politics and watching ben shapiro that i actually became exposed to the pro life argument. I honestly tried my best to find just ONE good justification from the left that abortion should be legal, because the last thing I wanted was to get in the way of women's choices (I understand how difficult an unplanned pregnancy can be). But it blew me away how dishonest and factless the pro choice movement was. They have no coherent position. They just jump from "women's choice" to "bundle of cells" to "rape and incest" and to crazy weird hypothetical thought experiments; basically throwing everything at the wall hoping something will stick.
yeeeeessssss
thinking about how it would "feel" to be dead after I'd died, thinking that I am living right now, and since I am alive, feeling what I feel currently is in fact how it "feels" to be alive. I kept thinking about, and trying to figure out when I started to be alive, or when I started to feel like I am alive, and I couldn't really properly answer either question to myself. I thought "I guess it must've been when I was born after the C-section" but my earliest memory is from when I was 2 years old, and I also realised that it wasn't as if I was any less alive a week before the C-section. There.
The kindest, gentlest, sweetest, most caring person I have ever met in my life. I made some offhand comment about how if I ever got pregnant accidentally, I'd just have an abortion. All he said was "oh, no", really quietly, and looked completely heartbroken. If the kindest person I know has that reaction to the idea of abortion I knew it must be evil. Maybe that sounds dumb. But that's what started it. After that I started really learning about abortion and found out that a lot of what I knew was wrong.
It all started with created equal a group that came to my university with graphic images. I was so mad and convinced they were fake but they stuck with me so I did research on fetal development and many videos one even including images of a real live abortion. I was traumatized and felt horrible for supporting such evil so strongly. But after taking some time to process it I’m now more pro life than I ever thought possible
When arguing with pro choicers, what line of argument or fact seems to stump them the most?
Anything having to do with basic, well-established scientific facts...
Climate Change: little science supporting it Science shows strongly fetuses are human and can feel pain
Dude, there's tons of science supporting climate change
That's what they say, real evidence is hard to find, the best piece of evidence provided by NASA was admitted to be faked. The "tons" of evidence your speaking of are just quotes from other people who believe in climate change.
At what point do we outlaw killing? Be precise. They can talk about "viability" or "consciousness", but I think we need some solid precision when it comes to the potential mass murder of babies. I should add that I absolutely reject the "as long as it's in their body" argument, since killing a fully developed 9 month old is no different than killing a newborn infant, and I simply reject that as a possibility.
Well, there a couple of good answers you could provide to that question. Sentience is a good one, which we know can't be present before about 18 weeks. Up until that point, the fetus has no perspective. It has not desires or thoughts at all. And, we know this for sure because we know what it takes in the brain to produce these things.
What do you mean by desires? Also, why is sentience important?
I mean, sentience is all that matters on some level. There is a quote I know can't find, but "without consciousness, the whole universe is just a pile of dirt."  If there were no sentience, nothing would matter on a moral level. There would be no agents. On the level of a fetus, nothing that I would consider an essential characteristic of humanity could be attributed to a 16 week old fetus. It can't even experience the world. I think that if I brought 1 trillion zygotes into existence and let them grow to be 16 weeks, and then killed them all, it would be no different then doing the same thing to 1 trillion trees. No one was hurt, no one's existence was cut short because I don't think anyone "existed" there yet. A body was being formed, but that was all that had happened up until that point. As for what I mean by desire, I mean that the fetus cannot have a directed mental state to which for something. It doesn't have mental states at all. We might say that a tree desires sunlight but really a tree has no perspective at all. It is just anthropomorphizing the tree.
It's not about whether or not they know we're killing them. It's about the fact that a member of the human species has a certain value, dignity, and the right to not be killed, just like everyone else. It has nothing to do with sentience because they are still human.
But what is it about human beings that make them this special? Why should that be the dividing line between those with moral worth and those without? Imagine we come across someone who looks like a normal human, talks and acts like a normal human, but doesn't have human DNA and is an entirely different species. Can we kill them? What makes them have rights? If an infant is born without a brain, and only with a brain stem that will keep their heart beating and lungs breathing, what then? They will never be conscious. Do they have the same rights as any other humans?
Ermgerd I've never heard this before. Sorry for the snark but if you've bothered to look at any pro-life argument this would seem obvious. Humans do have more value than animals. Quite simply, human beings are special because we are human. I'm human, you are human. If that mean nothing to you, then my following statements probabaly wont either. Humans have rights. Why? If humans aren't special why do we get all up in arms about human rights? It's a universally accepted concept that protects people of our species from harm. That's why there is no "dividing line between those with moral worth" because it's given to EVERYONE. Do you believe in human rights or should we just do away with it and make determinations on which types of humans get rights and which don't? We saw how well that went in the past. Who makes that decision, if that's the conclusion we come to? What if you happen to fall into the category of people without rights? What if the person making that decision tries to convince you that there isn't anything inherently special about you in particular so why should you have rights? So now that we have established that humans have rights, we should go into why they have rights. There is something that humans can do that is unique, it sets us apart from other animals. It's why we have been able to build universities, and cities, and everything that animals will never be able to do. We have rational though, abstract thought, can think critically, and all the other lovely things that come with our giant brains. Because of this, if we came across a species that also possesses these things, what we sometimes refer to as "intelligent life", they would also have rights. You could argue that dogs, other primates, dolphins, etc are all pretty intelligent, but if you want to argue that they are as intelligent or capable as a grown human being, you would be flat out wrong. They are not sentient species. "BuT I ThOuGhT yOu SaiD sEnTiEnCe DoEsNt mAtTeR?" On the individual scale, it absolutely does not. As a species, it's pretty much everything. I would never argue that a 2week old fetus is sentient because....it's not. I also wouldn't argue that someone in a coma is currently sentient. A fetus will never know what is happening to them if we kill them, but neither will a sleeping person, or someone with severe mental retardation. Do these people still have the rights of a sentient species? YES. Because they belong to one. A human does not have to be currently sentient to be given the rights that their fellow humans have. That is why an infant born without a brain, a comatose patient, or anyone with complete loss of mental abilities is still a human being and has rights. Now, like I said earlier...We cannot decide which human beings have rights. If any humans have rights, they all must have rights. From the second a child is conceived, they are a genetically unique human being. If you would like to somehow argue that they are not a human being, you would be incorrect. There's no interpretation there. It's established fact. Edit: spelling
No, that doesn't really mean anything to me. And by the logic you use next, that type of weird tribalism thinking ins't healthy to have in society either. People shouldn't be judged a certain way just because they are a member of some group. Everyone is an individual and every case has context. This just seems like a cowardly reason not to address the question at all. Just because people were wrong in the past doesn't mean we should address the question of what it means to be human.  And, from a practical standpoint, I feel pretty sure no groups that I think deserve full rights are in any danger of being classified as non-people anytime in the future. I think its much more accurate to say that "people" have rights. There are all sorts of humans that we don't give full protections to. In the U.S. fetuses are one, and infants born with no cognitive capacities are another. It's true that the typical human has these qualities. What you have not shown is why human rights would extent to every single human. Why would a human who doesn't even have a mind be extended the rights we give to rational, intospective, feeling humans? This isn't what sentience is. Sentience just means to have a perspective. To sense the world like we, a dog, or a bat would. A tree is alive, but not sentient.  There are also animals who might be "people" though, like dolphins or primates. But that is probably for another topic.. Obviously a sleeping person is different than a person who has lost all of their mental capacities. Do you agree with that? Someone who is sleeping is still a person. They have a mind, they have a knowledge and view of their own life, they have desires for the future, etc. Sleeping is only a pause in that conscious state that has no real significance. A person who has lost all mental capacities is just a shell of a body. They will never experience anything ever again. Why should this human be given human rights? It doesn't benefit them in any way, they can no longer be harmed in any relevant sense. Should we keep brain dead patients alive for as long as possible, decades even, in hospital beds? Of course they are human
Your shifting the argument here. Is it about sentience or the value of human life? If you don't believe human's have inherent value, then who cares about sentience. If human's don't have inherent value in our society, then there should be now laws against murder or rape. Beyond that, there should be no government to begin with, since it's function to protect our rights is obsolete. If you truly and honestly want your position to be that human's don't have value, then we live in anarchy, pure and simple. If you do accept human life to be valuable and worthy of our protection, then we can talk about sentience. The problem with the sentience argument is a few things. One, I really don't understand why pro choicers think it's acceptable to arbitrarily choose when life begins, ESPECIALLY when the science is crystal clear on the subject. Whether it's sentience, viability, or pain of the fetus, why do you get to choose when it has value. If we really "don't know where life begins" as pro choicers like to proclaim, then why don't we err on the side of life, rather than on the side of the destruction of life. Funny thing is, we DO know when life begins, since an independent human organism is created at conception, one that will grow into a fully formed human being if not destroyed before it has the chance. And additionally on the sentience argument, if it is your contention that human life is valuable because of sentience, than can i kill you if you're in a coma from which you may awake, or if you're anesthetized for surgery, or if you're asleep? To quote Senator James Lankford, "every single adult that can hear me right now was once 20 weeks old in the womb, and we can look at each other and understand that the difference between that child in the womb and anyone of us now, is time."
It can be about both. I don't think humans, or much of anything has inherent value. I think a lot of things have value according to properties they have, but not simply on their own existence. This is simply not true. I can believe in inalienable rights that extent to people in society. These people must reach minimum criteria though. And no, this is not the same as saying "only white people have rights." But, you have to be a person to have rights. You have to be sentient, you have to have a mind, you have to be self-aware. So, murder and rape are still bad. And actually, they wouldn't be bad to anyone who does not have sentience anyway. Nothing could be bad to those humans. If I agreed with this, then I would be on your side. I think we need to talk about the importance of sentience before we decide who has moral worth. I think humans only have moral worth, on part because they are sentient, but I don't see any reason why this worth would extend to those who didn't meet that important criteria to begin with. Obviously life begins at conception. No debate there, but there is life EVERYWHERE. A mouse is alive, a tree is alive, a cell is alive. That is what science can tell you. How we determine moral worth is much different however. It's obviously not life that gives something moral worth. Leaves do not have moral worth. "Human life" maybe. But why humans? If it a set of characteristics and qualities that humans have, life rationality, sentience, and self awareness, but these are qualities that not all humans have. I see no reason to extend this to the humans that do not have these qualities. And, we should also extend moral worth to any non-humans that would have these qualities. No, sentience is a quality of the person. A person has a stream of consciousness that has gone on since they were young. They have a concept of them self over time, they have desires for the future, memories of the past, etc. When a person is sleeping, they still are that person, they just aren't sensing anything at the moment. To kill them would be to throw aware the future that they had anticipated and desired. A fetus is not the same. A fetus (before 16 weeks) was never sentient. It has the awareness of a rock. It could exist for 1 trillion years like that and its existence would mean nothing to it because it doesn't exist in any relevant way.  There isn't a "person" there yet, just a developing body. Could you say the same thing about the pile of bones we would leave behind? Do they deserve the same rights we have now? The only difference is time right?
You're drawing morality out of science. Because human's have cognitive ability and are able to be rational and self aware, then we can arbitrarily decide that THAT gives them their moral worth. But science doesn't determine morality. You responded this to the other person: "I also wouldn't argue that someone in a coma is currently sentient. A fetus will never know what is happening to them if we kill them, but neither will a sleeping person, or someone with severe mental retardation. Do these people still have the rights of a sentient species? YES. Because they belong to one. A human does not have to be currently sentient to be given the rights that their fellow humans have." So a person in a coma who is NOT sentient does have rights because they belong to a sentient species. The same can be said for a fetus at the point of conception. They are not sentient then, but they belong to the human species, and will become sentient if left alone. In fact, there is a stronger case that if you had to choose between the person in the coma and the fetus, the fetus would have a greater case to life because if left up to natural processes, the fetus will become sentient, while that is not always the case for a comatose patient. And about the quote by Senator Lankford, no, the bones do not have the same rights because they are dead human remains, not a living human organism (as we are, and as a fetus is).
No science can not determine morality, but it can certainly inform some of our philosophical positions. You can say that self awareness is an arbitrary decider for what as moral worth, I obviously disagree, but don't you think that deciding on the basis of whether something is human is even more arbitrary? It's just a species distinction, it isn't pointing to significant qualities like I am. You misread this. The other person wrote that and I responded to it. I don't think any distinction can be made based only on species. Individuals vary, context matters, and humans, at least in theory, are not the only ones to posses these relevant characteristics. Well I at least think that it makes clear that time isn't the only thing different between us and a fetus, or us and bones. We have very different qualities. I, being aware, and having a desire to live on into the future makes it a horrible act to kill me. A fetus however, has no interest either way.
I love to debate in all subjects by asking the person I'm debating with questions and either trap them in a corner or get them to agree with what I'm saying rather than just providing evidence. Lots of the time you don't need to, solely because they cannot provide evidence for themselves. My favourite is "If someone punched a pregnant girl in the stomach and this punch is 100% proven to be the cause of a miscarriage, what crime should that person be charged with?" This goes 1 of 5 ways. They say murder even as a pro-choicer. No exceptions, just murder. You've gotten them to agree with your stance. This one rarely happens because people aren't that dumb to realize that this isn't that simple of a question. They say murder but with the exception of if it's after the first trimester or a certain week. Present scientific evidence to prove why their stance is wrong. They say assault, but that a separate charge should be added for causing a miscarriage that's not murder. Then ask, "But if it's just a chunk of cells, why should there be an extra charge?" They flat out say assault. This rarely happens since it's morally bankrupt to admit that causing a miscarriage is 100% okay (other than an assault charge to cause the miscarriage). They walk away/don't reply/don't answer the question. I find lots of the time it's #2 and #5. As more and more scientific evidence comes out about fetal development, it's harder and harder to be a pro-choicer without having some sort of stipulation to come along with it (in many cases, they use the trimesters to justify their argument). Another question is to ask at what point during a pregnancy does a fetus become a living being? The answers are very predictable. After first trimester, heart beat, brain development etc. Very easily disputable with evidence
The answer is pretty clearly #3, and the extra charge is applied because you don't get to destroy something that belongs to someone else. It doesn't matter if it's a fetus or anything else, it belongs to that person and you don't get to take it away from them.
Yeah the extra charge should be murder though
We obviously disagree on that, but it's more than just disagreement. You're being intellectually dishonest when you say "it's just a clump of cells so why an extra charge." If you assaulted me and destroyed something that belonged to me, you'd be charged with assault and destruction of personal property.  Nobody would say "it's just a (whatever you destroyed), why the extra charge?" This should be the same thing.
One charge of Assault, and One charge of Murder, but not for the reasons you think off. If a non-consensual violent external factor is proven to be 100% responsible for the miscarriage, for the purpose of the law, we can assume birth to have already happened. This leads to the Murder Charge. The Assault charge is simply there for the Assault.
I don't think there's a single "[b]est line of argument". The first step of any effective argument should be to clarify where the other person is coming from. The most sophisticated argument against the violinist argument won't do anything to convince someone who literally believes the fetus is part of the mother's body in the same way as her liver or tongue.
This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.

Finally! A victory!
We NEED to win Ohio's governor race in 2018! Here's how YOU can help!: Donate - https://give.victorypassport.com/mike-dewine/donate-now-home/ Volunteer - https://www.mikedewine.com/volunteer/
I love watching Reddit throw a hissy fit over Kasich, as though it's impossible for a pro-lifer to be moderate.
Good. Shut the butchery down!
This is a bad decision, since they decided not to rule on the constitutionality of the law, while the lower courts found the law unconstitutional. They should have decided on the constitutionality of the law, which would have resulted in either the law being unconstitutional, which means the legislators should have done a better job, or the law was legal, which would have lead to the same result, and also applied it to future cases.

I like the way this guy thinks.
He shouldn't even have to ask.

Definitely a bit rich coming from a base that overwhelmingly believes in miracles.. I don't mean to be judgmental about that, but then to scoff at "believing in magic" is a bit silly. More seriously though, that isn't a charitable interpretation of her view at all.
Not really, if you honestly look at it. One might call babies who survive terrible prognoses "miracles." The other believes that all human fetuses are suddenly bestowed with a metaphysical form of humanity/personhood at some point in development; before which killing them is morally equivalent to snapping a twig and after which it is murder. No one can agree on when this happens, or who/what can grant humanity, or what humanity even is. And of course, there's not a shred of evidence that any such event occurs. If that's not magic, I don't know what is.
It seems unlikely she thinks it is a single moment that such a change happens though. For example, if she thinks that something essential to humanity or personhood is having a mind, then clearly that is something that a single celled human doesn't, but at some point in their development they do acquire that characteristic. I don't know what metric she uses to determine what has moral worth, but there are plenty she could choose that would emerge at some point during development.
Here's how you can help elect PRO LIFE governors in these states in 2018!:Florida:Donate - https://give.victorypassport.com/putnam/donate-today/ Volunteer - https://adamputnam.com/volunteer/Maine:Donate - https://secure.anedot.com/mayhewformaine/website Volunteer - https://www.mayhewformaine.com/get-involved/Michigan:Donate - https://support.billschuette.com/donate Volunteer - https://billschuette.com/get-involved/Minnesota:Donate - https://jeffjohnson2018.nationbuilder.com/donate Volunteer - http://www.johnsonforgovernor.org/volunteerNevada:Donate - https://secure.adamlaxalt.com/donation Volunteer - https://adamlaxalt.ivolunteers.com/Account/RegisterNew Hampshire:Donate - https://cm.aristotle.com/d/chrissununu Volunteer - http://chrissununu.com/volunteerNew Mexico:Donate - https://cm.aristotle.com/d/PearceGov Volunteer - https://newmexico.gop/get-involved/Ohio:Donate - https://give.victorypassport.com/mike-dewine/donate-now-home/ Volunteer - https://www.mikedewine.com/volunteer/Oregon:Donate - https://www.makeoregongreatagain.com/donate/ Volunteer - https://www.makeoregongreatagain.com/get-involved/Pennsylvania:Donate - http://wagnerforgov.com/donate/ Volunteer - http://wagnerforgov.com/join-the-campaign/Wisconsin:Donate - https://donate.scottwalker.com/ Volunteer - https://www.scottwalker.com/volunteer/
It is SO important that we win these races in 2018! By winning here we can make SERIOUS progress in making Pro Life laws!
There are so many other important issues besides abortion.   It's too bad that the party that actually wants to help people,  the poor, the disabled, educate our kids,  feed all kids, help animals and the environment--- just happens to be wrong on the abortion issue.   Really, really wrong. While I will rail against abortion, I would never, ever, ever vote for a Republican. There is going to be a Trump backlash this fall that's going to make Republicans very sad.

Our civilization will go down in history as one of the most grotesque and monstrous. This makes the child sacrifices of Sardinia look tame in comparison. How can a human being do this to an infant?
That is utterly demonic.
Can't spell demonic without dem
Haha true
I'll take "I need to sell clicks or I'll lose my job" for 100 Alex.
Why won't you believe women when they speak? Stop mansplaining!
Hmm she's been featured in undercover videos to discredit and disparage planned Parenthood before. Yup, nothing to see here folks, definitely just a regular lab technician uncovering sensationalist stories so you'll click. Holdmybeer while you all get upset over an obviously manufactured outrage piece. Nobody loses here, they get clicks and cash, you get to feel justified in your outrage and nobody has to verify that this is actually happening. Call me when Planned Parenthood's doctors change their policy to allow this kind of procedure that betrays the Hippocratic Oath. Or just choose to believe that doctors harvest organs from still-alive patients cause it fits your narrative and not because they need the cash for clicks.
We are still denying that the video proof of planned parenthood employees was real? Like...watching the words come out of their mouths....was not real? I don't understand.....
lfpod, is the wiki article a fair summary of the facts?

They released the full videos...but I don't know why selective editing matters when the words coming out of their mouths were real. Some things don't need context. Just because the content enrages you, doesn't make it fake. Like someone said before, we don't get pissed when people film animal cruelty. Why get pissed about video taping criminals at an abortion clinic?
People still think there isn't full videos?
Any and every abortion betrays the Hippocratic oath.

Pot calling the kettle black. You literally promote the freedom to choose to kill. Sorry but I find your comment extremely ironic.
Strictly speaking, it doesn't.  I am not, have not, and will not advocate for violence. I am opposed to vigilante violence in every form. I am thankful that Scott Roeder was caught, tried, convicted and punished for what he did. I believe anyone who emulates his actions should be harshly punished. I don't support violence. I also believe that Tiller's murder was an act of God's judgement and that it is wholeheartedly deserved. Private citizens do not ever have the right to kill other human beings, but they state absolutely should exercise swift justice against those who kill the most defenseless members of our society.
However, your username does promote violence. Would you agree that saying "Trump deserves assassination" (please note, I do not think he does) is something that would be seen as promoting violence? If all of the MSNBC and CNN news hosts started saying that, and a week later he were assassinated, would you think that the MSNBC and CNN news hosts had somehow promoted or encouraged that violence? To say that somebody deserves something is to say that it is just and good that it happened.  To promote something is to say that it would be good if it happened.
This is a statement which can be interpreted in many ways.  Even if it weren't ambiguous, extending the logic to people who are not alive is a stretch.
What did it say?
Please, tell me where her testimony can be demonstrated as false.
found the lib
I object. I care about the fight against abortion but I also care about honest reporting. While it is true that if even a fraction of O'Donnell's testimony is factual it's more evidence that our country is in the thrall of a ghoulish death industry. But she and the video producers should be rightly held to account for deliberately dishonest handling of the matter. If nothing else it does more damage to the pro-life message to be 'represented' by goons and hacks.

lol can you imagine being this fuckin guy
Hmm just for fun, what do you think being me is like?
Are you ok?  Your seem like you could use a nice herbal tea or something.
Yeah it's pretty crazy how all those late night hosts and SNL actors are getting arrested for being anti-trump.
What did Trump say about the Union Rep when the Union Rep told Trump he didn't save their jobs?
More info: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planned_Parenthood_2015_undercover_videos_controversy

This is the biggest hypocrisy I see with many so-called "progressives". That they will fight for the rights of the least of animals under the guise of "humane treatment", but advocate for the wholesale death of their fellow human beings under the guise of "choice". It's mind-boggling and it's indicative of a sick culture, diseased to its core.
You see the same thing when it comes to undercover journalism. When journalists secretly film animal cruelty in the meat industry, there's a massive outcry. No one thinks to question the integrity of the reporters. But when horrifying footage is taken at PP and other abortion clinics, it's smeared as "highly edited" and "not credible."
I'm vegan there's many among us that fight for the rights of the unborn as much as we fight for non-human life.
Oh yeah, definitely that's great, and my comment isn't directed at you specifically or those who think like you. But there are many (at least stereotypically) who fight for animal rights while cheering on abortion. It's that kind of hypocrisy that gets to me the most.

Sad that in so many developed countries you're allowed to kill a baby. The fact that they even voted to allow it as such a late stage is appalling.
So pretty much all of them.
Except 2 I think.
Well they're up for re-election this year...
I see a lot of debate about abortion in the US but there are a few things I don‘t get:Is the pill after also abortion?When does life begin for you guys?Until when (baby growth) is it legal to abort in the US?And what about abortion of a terminal ill baby?
Life begins at the same place it does for everyone...conception. That's not an opinion. It's established scientific fact. Is this really still a question?
so you think the pill after or plan B (I think that’s how it is called in the US) is murder too?
I think there's nothing wrong with preventing conception, but if a child has been conceived, preventing implantation is murder. The problem is we really can't know which one is happening. If someone is raped, I think they should immediately go to the hospital, get a rape kit, and be allowed emergency contraception. It's an extreme case and should be allowed. If you had sex and decided not to use a condom, and realized a few days later that it was probably stupid, you're pushing it. So yes, it is murder, but life isn't black and white so I have exceptions.
If preventing implantation is murder, does a miscarried fertilized egg require a person’s burial?
Some parents may choose to bury them...but either way, people certainly mourn them. Burial isn't required for ANY person, so I am not sure why it matters.
Because about 30% to 40% of all fertilized eggs miscarry, often before the pregnancy is known.  They are not mourned because no one was aware that a fertilized egg existed in the first place. Does that make any sense?  That if a woman causes a fertilized egg to die by taking birth control she should be punished for murder, but if it dies on its own (which happens quite often), it just winds up as a speck on a bloody tampon to be thrown into the trash and taken to the curb for garbage pickup?
....you're saying people don't mourn miscarriages? We know how things work. You're not bringing some life-changing statistics that we were never aware of. If you cause a pregnancy to end, it's wrong. If a pregnancy ends on it's own, but you didn't know you were pregnant, that's nature. How would you even know to be sad? You wouldn't, so it's irrelevant. If a pregnancy ends on it's own and you knew you were pregnant, you are generally very sad. I don't get what that's so hard to wrap your head around.  You logic is "if someone dies on their own, you're not punished so why should you be punished if you cause them to die." Think about that please.
The issue is whether society and the law should treat the death of a fertilized egg the same way we treat the death of a born human being.  Should we?
What are you referring to when you say fertilized egg? Are you downplaying the importance of the baby or specifically referring to an egg right after fertilization? Because a fertilized egg is no longer just an egg the second sperm touches it. It is a genetically unique human in the earliest stages of development. The law for abortion should reflect the laws we already have regarding death. If you intentionally cause someone to die, you are committing murder. If someone dies of natural causes, there is no crime. The question then is who do we prosecute for the former. If a woman has a miscarriage, do we investigate whether or not it was intentional? No, because other countries have shown that it's a horrible idea and ends up with woman being jailed for legitimate miscarriages. If you are a provider caught doing an abortion, you should be prosecuted. Now if you're still asking me if we should mourn the loss of a pregnancy the same way we mourn a fully developed adult, the answer is still yes. If you didn't know you were pregnant, you wouldn't know to be sad so it is irrelevant. I implore you to follow the logic of the questions you are asking. I'm honestly floored that you are still asking this because it is so damn obvious if you give it two seconds of contemplation.
I am referring to the human egg after it is fertilized by a human sperm. But that ignorance can be resolved if a sexually active woman examines her menses before throwing her tampon in the garbage. You haven’t answered my question.  Should society and the law treat the death of a fertilized egg the same way we treat the death of a born human being?

Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miscarriage HelperBot v1.1 /r/HelperBot_ I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 146493
Miscarriage Miscarriage, also known as spontaneous abortion and pregnancy loss, is the natural death of an embryo or fetus before it is able to survive independently. Some use the cutoff of 20 weeks of gestation, after which fetal death is known as a stillbirth. The most common symptom of a miscarriage is vaginal bleeding with or without pain. Sadness, anxiety and guilt often occur afterwards. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source | ^Donate ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
Yes, because after the baby has been conceived, it can prevent implantation. It's not just for us, it's scientific fact that a new organism is formed when the gametes join in fertilization, ie "conception". At one time they could be born all the way except the head, and then the abortionist stabs the baby to death in the head and sucks out his brains. In the early 2000s there was a law made against that but I think that in some states a baby can still be aborted until birth, but have to be killed before the procedure. Murder, the same as killing any terminally ill person of any age.
about the terminally ill baby isn’t that in some scenarios considered mercy?
Killing someone is never mercy - no illness can take away their right to life. We have no right to judge that someone deserves to die just because they have a disease.
okey thanks for your answers
Life begins at conception and depending on the state, you can get an abortion at any time during pregnancy
holy shit so you can literally kill a baby at 9 months ?
In some states, though to be fair almost all that get an abortion at 9 months do so because of life threatening complications (so I’m told, can’t confirm). However, the belief that you should be able to abort at 9 months for any reason is alarmingly popular
I just think that‘s disgusting
Then you came to the right subreddit
Legally, yes, but it can be difficult to find a doctor willing to do it. But a few years back, there was a story of a woman who smothered her newborn and got away with it because state law didn't consider the baby a person until the afterbirth is delivered.
Plan B etc. could be construed as an abortifacient, if it is preventing a fertilized egg from implanting (attaching?) to the uterus. Though I would guess most don't count this as an abortion, but I cannot speak for everyone. Same as every scientifically literate person: conception. depends on the state. The direct killing of a person is immoral, a terminally ill child is a person, therefore it is wrong to directly kill a terminally ill child.
I’ve got a different point of few on that mercy thing... If you know that baby is gonna die after a short time or it will be a miscarriage I don’t see the point... same as a brain dead person in the hospital well at least for me and my family it is clear that we should turn off live support. I think we’ve got an overall different few on death it self. We have an organisation in switzerland which supports your right to die. Old people who suffer and/or want to go with dignity can turn to this service.
There is a vast difference between not providing medical care to extend someone's life and killing them. Abortion is the latter: it means using drugs or physical attack to kill the baby. That's like seeing a child in the end stages of cancer and forcibly injecting her with poison or just ripping her limb from limb.

There is abysmally little science in that article, and none which ultimately supports your position.

Never going to happen. Democrats can NEVER be trusted on Abortion issues.

Now I really want to know if it would work.
Just run it through the computer.
Here's just a little list of all the candidates who have got PP money so far: https://www.opensecrets.org/pacs/pacgot.php?cmte=C00314617&cycle=2018
What I don’t understand is how is it legal for an entity which receives our tax payer money to be funding particular politicians, seems like a massive conflict of interest.
It's because Planned Parenthood Action Fund is technically a separate thing. They mostly get donations from Pro abortion groups and people rather than PP itself.
Sounds like they're basically taking money from one pocket and putting it into the other
Pretty much.
Welcome to America.
be real. other than ossoff, this shit is chump change.
They've still got around 9 months left..
what was the money given in 2016? it'll probably just be a bit more than whatever that was. possibly more than a bit more due to the increasing popularity of pro choice w/ the womens rights movement
Around $700,000
its still kinda a smaller pac. i dont think the $9,000 would change the representative's views on abortion. theyd support it anyways since their base all supports it.
There are other affiliated PACs (like all the state PPs and PP Votes).
true true true.
The money goes to increase support, not change views. Dems and Reps are very firmly settled on abortion.

I'll have to add "therapeutical abortions" to my Devil's Dictionary.
Add it as "therapeutic abortion," OP made an error.
The rapists should probably be hunted down, killed & castrated. The innocent human life should be protected.
Sounds like your country needs stronger laws to punish rapists not softer laws to encourage more rape/abortion and harming innocent victims like the unborn.
I think of it this way: a child doesn’t deserve to be punished for the crimes of his father. If a man rapes a girl, he has committed one of the most despicable actions in the world. If a baby is conceived from the rape, the baby is an innocent victim just like the mother. Of course, having to carry and deliver a baby  conceived in rape is traumatic and dangerous. However, aborting the baby would only serve to minimize the gravity of the crime that was committed, while killing an innocent bystander in the process. I think the solution needs to be vast support for mothers who find themselves in this situation, tougher penalties for rapists, and an awareness that killing an unborn baby does nothing to mitigate the rape of a child.
To me, when I had an abortion after pregnancy from rape, the last thing on my mind was "killing this baby will mitigate my rape." To me, the only thing on my mind was "I've been traumatized enough from rape and an unwanted pregnancy. I want to stop the cycle of trauma now. I want to be happy and don't want to wait 9 months in agony waiting for further agony, aka labor, childbirth, and having to sit with knowing I brought a baby into this world from a rapist, and a baby that will not know his mom or dad because I can't keep this daily reminder of trauma and pain"
The main point still stands. Rape abortions kill an innocent bystander.  Not knowing your biological parents is a significantly better fate than being killed in utero and suggesting otherwise is just gross.
All I'm saying is, that was my experience being put in the unthinkable position. If I hadn't gotten an abortion I would've died by suicide. I never wanted to be in that positioned and it showed in my health
I'm sorry that you had that happen to you and that you wrestled with suicidal thoughts as a result. No one should have to go through that. I'd like for you to look at this from a different perspective, though. Consider the same scenario, but with a newborn child. If a mother is suffering from severe postpartum depression to the point of considering suicide, should she be allowed to kill her newborn? To make it more relevant, in this hypothetical scenario, the child was also conceived in rape. If you feel that this scenario is fundamentally different than one where the child was aborted, then isn't the root of this matter in the value of a fetus vs. an infant rather than one where suicide is considered? Apologies in advance if I come across as insensitive.
Ok, let's say I completely agree with you and a person died during the process of me getting the medical care I needed after a rape. Does that mean i killed them (though I had no conscious or consencual part of conceiving it) or the rapist did? because i hear the pro-life community is all about respect of the mother, especially if she is a victim of rape. Why not have compassion for a rape victim who was put in an impossible position, and instead blame and question the rapist?
By and large, I think the pro-life community agrees with you in that there should be more compassion for pregnant women and rape victims. This is why there are thousands of centers in the US alone that are volunteer-run by pro-lifers who provide moral, psychological and financial help to struggling women. I think more people should be able to get the help they need so that they don't see abortion as the only way out. If that means far more tax dollars going towards single pregnant women and victims of rape, so be it. I don't think the question of who killed the fetus is all that relevant. The answer is complicated--there are laws that alleviate some of the responsibility in situations where a person is not fully in the right state of mind (Canada has more lenient sentences for postpartum mothers who kill their infants, for instance, due to severe hormonal shifts right after pregnancy). I'd also argue that abortion ultimately helps rapists--it allows them to avoid paying child support and it "destroys the evidence" of their crimes (if you don't mind the expression).
The thing is, I didn't want to have a kid. I never planned to have a kid. So, why should I be forced to have a kid? Do I not have any bodily autonomy?
These questions are pretty loaded. If abortion was outlawed, you'd have all the bodily autonomy in the world, except when it comes to ending a life. I'm not going to pretend pregnancy is a picnic, but a mother is hardly a total slave to her fetus for nine months. I'm a father of two; I think in all but the most outstanding cases, raising a newborn is significantly more taxing than carrying a baby to term (and my wife can attest to this). Breast-feeding a baby every two hours is incredibly exhausting, not to mention the changing, burping, and taking care of them when they're upset (which is often). Does a mother "not have any bodily autonomy" because she's "forced" to use her body (i.e. breasts) to feed her newborn? Amidst this discussion, it's also important to keep in mind that rapes are only 1% of total abortions in the US; yours is a tragic case, but one that's far from common. Even though I disagree with it (since the fetus is ultimately still an innocent victim regardless of its circumstances), I'd be willing to compromise to an allowance of abortion in cases of rape if it meant outlawing the other 99%.
Look. Pregnancy is completely different when it was raped into you. Everything is traumatic, everything gave me panic attacks, I did;'t want to live in my own body knowing it was changing and hurting without my consent. I never agreed to be raped, I never agreed to pregnancy, and I will never agree to having a child through rape. It's complete torture being forced into pregnancy and labor and childbirth without your consent. I never consented to sex, nor pregnancy, so I am not consenting to having a child.

Pro-life is not about compassion, it's about blindly agreeing that all people have the right to life even if it means a mother has to suffer physically and emotionally.
This is trolling, a strawman, and an ad hominem. We're happy to discuss abortion with pro-choicers here, but don't make these blanket negative statements about compassion when the evidence all points to the contrary. http://www.thepublicdiscourse.com/2011/01/2380/
does that mean you agree with forced blood transfusions even if it means the person giving blood suffers physically and emotionally? What about my bodily autonomy when I never wanted to be raped in the first place?
I'm on your side. There is never a situation that I believe should result in one human being forced to give up the integrity of their organs against their will. Glad you had a chance to get that abortion. Sorry about all the pain you've been through.
Sounds a bit dramatic.
The mother's trauma can never justify murdering her child. Her emotions do not nullify anyone's right to life. Imagine if a woman gives birth to a child conceived in rape, and one day when he's 15 years old she kills him because it's too traumatic to live with someone who is starting to resemble her rapist. People who support rape exceptions for abortion only do so because they deny the unborn child equal rights to a born child. (edit for grammar)
that's why I obviously didn't wait until viability much less birth and much less 15 years? it's definitely not the same
Your child had the same right to live as if he or she had survived another 1, 15, or 90 years. Killing any innocent human being is murder.
Not if it was in self defense or for my safety/health, or if I never consented to it because then it's my bodily autonomy over theirs?
According to your other comment you consider suicidal wishes as self defense? Yeah, no. Saying "I'm going to commit suicide unless I kill my baby" doesn't make it self defense you kill your baby.
I didn't say it. My mind did, in response to the trauma and pain.
I'm not sure what you mean by saying you and your mind say different things? Regardless, neither suicidal wishes, trauma, nor pain can justify killing an innocent child. Those are all things for which the mother should receive treatment and help and support, because her and her child's lives are equal.
I am not psychologically or physically strong enough to be forced into labor and childbirth raped into me. Why put me through that trauma when I can stop it from growing into viability and cause an emotional scar thats never going to heal.
Well, to put it your way: that's your mind saying it, not you. You may feel like you cannot go on in a terrible and traumatic situation, but with the right support, you can. Objectively, there is nothing stopping you from giving birth. Because that's just a euphemistic way of talking about murder. No one's emotions can justify killing an innocent person, no one's trauma can take away another human being's right to life.
https://i.imgur.com/kNQ6jUQ.jpg
I also got pregnant from a rape. I wasn't sure how I felt or if I was pro-choice or pro-life. All I knew, and I had to be honest with myself about my feelings and how this rape and unwanted pregnancy affected me: I became suicidal, severely depressed, wasn't eating right and wasn't sleeping, isolated myself from everyone. It was a difficult decision. But I knew I was already traumatized from the rape and the unwanted pregnancy and changes in my body. If I was forced to go through pregnancy and labor and childbirth - having my body change even more drastically, being in pain and having horrible symptoms and missing more of my schooling and job than I already had, the agonizing pain of childbirth that I never agreed to nor wanted. It was a difficult decision, but for my own sanity, to stop the further trauma, and to improve my mental and physical health, I had an abortion. It wasn't an easy decision but I don't regret it because I have no trauma from forced labor and childbirth. I think, in this position, everyone's experience will be different. It's important to center the experiences and voices of people who HAVE gotten pregnant from rape, because only we know what it's really like. And there's no one-size-fits-all solution for this; it's important that every person in this position feels empowered to make their own decision and what is best for them. For me, my abortion was a good decision because I never wanted to be pregnant, I never asked to be pregnant, and I never planned to be pregnant. It was traumatizing for me and I deserve to live a life free from violence, trauma, and regret.
I think it's important to recognize that no one is advocating a one-size-fits-all policy on abortion. The law already takes extenuating circumstances into account. A person being under extreme psychological duress while taking a life can get a charge reduced from murder to manslaughter, for instance.
I’m not sure how I feel about rape victims being charged with manslaughter if they get an abortion.  Haven’t they been victimized enough?
Are you arguing that people who have been victimized should have a free pass to victimize other people?
I’m saying that bodily autonomy and the right to live are competing values.  If bodily autonomy never mattered, then the government would have the right to force me to donate blood, to force me to donate my body to science, to force me to be a living donor.  The government doesn’t have the right to do any of that, nor do I believe they should. It’s only when you cede your right to bodily autonomy that another person’s right to live can take precedence.  And by agreeing to have sex, you are doing so with the full knowledge that this could lead to the creation of another human life, no matter how unlikely that creation may be.  (Which is why I don’t think failed birth control is a valid reason for abortion, since it’s never 100% effective, more like 99%.) When you engage in an act with the knowledge that certain consequences are possible, you can’t then escape from those consequences.  But to force a consequence on someone who didn’t willingly engage in that act would be unfair and trespass on her right to bodily automony.
I think you're presenting a false dichotomy. I have a right to refuse to drive someone somewhere, and the government can't hold me at gunpoint and force me to do so. And agreeing to drive someone somewhere does give me certain obligations, but that's not the only reason it's illegal to push someone out of my car while I'm driving 90 miles down the freeway, and arguing that I shouldn't be allowed to do so regardless of whether I agreed to give someone a ride in no way necessarily means also arguing that I need to let anyone borrow my car whenever they want.
I’m not sure I understand what you’re saying.  If I let someone in my car, and later change my mind, I can’t push them out on the highway.  But if I’m being car-jacked, I have every right to push them out wherever I can, even if that results in their death.  Don’t I?  For all I know, the car-jacker will kill me as soon as he gets to where he’s going.
Okay, first of all, I'm going to change the car to a hot air balloon, because physically throwing someone out of a car that you're currently driving doesn't seem physically possible. Let's say that you're opening your basket of binoculars or sandbags or whatever you carry on a hot air balloon, and you discover a small child, gagged and bound and clearly terrified. Would you feel justified in throwing her overboard, considering you'd never agreed to give anyone a ride? Contrary to what pro-choicers would have you believe, unborn babies aren't these malevolent spirits that float about the aether until they decide to foist themselves upon random women. They're forced into their predicament by forces outside of their control. A child conceived in rape isn't a "car-jacker", but a second victim of the rapist. This pro-choice narrative that presents an unborn child as an adversary of the mother, or some kind of attacker, is exactly the kind of disgusting dehumanization tactic that's been used all too often throughout history to justify countless atrocities.
An "unborn child" is definitely an adversary to me when i never asked for it to be there! I was suicidal, I wasn't eating, I didn't want to live if I was only living to be forced into trauma of forced childbirth. I wasn't able to go to school or work for weeks because of the horrible symptoms I was having, I was sick all the time, I was in pain, and I couldn't even imagine go thru further physical and emotional pain for forced labor and childbirth. I just couldn't do it. My bodily autonomy was very important to me because i never in my life wanted kids and just because someone raped me, I'm seen as a "killer" for making the choice to stop a cycle of trauma that was raped into me? Why can't we see the rapist as the killer for putting me in that situation?
Someone who kills someone else is a killer, extenuating circumstances or not. Being victimized doesn't mean you're not responsible for any victimization you do in response. You took an action that immediately resulted in someone's death; I don't know under what definition that wouldn't qualify as being a "killer".

This analogy is probably falling apart, as most analogies do eventually.  :-)  Because I think a woman's body is very different than a hot air balloon.  One of the differences is that I wouldn't feel personally threatened by a child in a hot air balloon - I probably would feel threatened by a child of my attacker growing inside me. I think a more apt analogy would be being kidnapped and having one of your kidneys forcibly removed and implanted in an innocent child to save his or her life.  Would I then have the right to demand my kidney back?  (Take for granted that in this world, such a surgery would be successful.) Even if taking the kidney meant the child would die, I have every right to get that kidney back.  It was my kidney, and even though the child was not responsible, she should not have gotten it.    Now, it would certainly be nice of me not to demand the kidney back.  I would hope that in that situation, I would let the child keep it (just as I hope that if I were ever raped, God forbid, I would have the strenght to not abort the child), but I would have every right to take it back, and the state should support me in that. In the end, I think a purist view of abortion like yours actually does more damage to the pro-life movement.  There are a lot of pro-choice people that agree that the number of abortions should go down, that abortion is never a "good" thing.  But you'll never get them to support banning abortions even in the case of rape.  So instead of possibly being able to pass a law that prohibits abortions except in the case of rape or the mother's life at risk, you'll have a bill fail that said no abortion is ever allowed.
A woman's body is different from a hot air balloon, but that doesn't really address my point, i.e. that there's a difference between saying that you don't have to help someone and saying that you don't have to wait to revoke help until it can be done safely. I'm actually not sure that it would be considered Kosher to forcibly remove a transplanted organ from a patient, even if it was taken improperly. Of course, pregnancy isn't an organ transplant; it's the use of an organ for the exact purpose it's built for. As an alternate analogy, let's say a woman and her newborn infant are the sole survivors of a plane crash. The infant is too young to digest anything but formula or breast milk, and there's no formula to keep the infant alive until rescue arrives. If the mother were to refuse to breastfeed her child, causing the child to starve to death before they were both rescued, should she not at least be charged with neglect, if not outright murder? Obviously, a ban on abortion with an exception for rape is probably better than no ban at all. No one's arguing that it isn't. We shouldn't let the perfect be the enemy of the good, and we should aim for what's currently achievable when planning for the short term, but that doesn't mean that we should act like the compromise bill that is able to be passed is the best possible bill, or that the concessions put into it to make it more popular aren't exactly that, compromises that put it shy of the ideal end goal.
Especially when the rape victims are 10 year olds as stated by the op.
I know I'm 3 months late to this party, but you can get a shot for this and you wouldn't feel a thing through the whole labor.
If I were
I think a lot of people who are pro-life make exceptions for rape.  I know I do.  To me, it all comes down to the issue of consent.  Everyone who has sex knows there’s a possibility of pregnancy, and you can’t then murder someone because you gambled (had sex) and lost. But if you didn’t agree to have sex in the first place, I liken it to someone having one of their kidneys forceably taken from them to save someone else’s life.  Yes, that person needed the kidney to live, but you also have to balance bodily autonomy with that.  I have the right to keep both my kidneys, even if that means someone else dies as a result.  I don’t have the right to kill someone who is alive only because of a decision I voluntarily made. A 10-year old kid who is forced to carry a pregnancy due to rape...?  I don’t know how to justify that.  My concern is with the majority of abortions - the result of voluntary sex that was not “safe” enough.  If you’re dumb enough to get pregnant because you didn’t use effective birth control, you don’t get to erase your mistake by murder.
If a woman has consensual sex with her husband, and he rapes her the next day, and she ends up getting pregnant, should she be allowed to kill the baby?
That depends, I guess, on whether she was using birth control prior to the rape.  Killing someone is a big deal, though, so I’d probably argue that if it’s not really clear from which sex act she became pregnant, consensual or rape, life wins. There is a saying, though.  It goes something like “extreme cases make bad law”.  The circumstance you’re describing is so rare, it could effectively be decided on a case-by-case basis.  The vast majority of abortions are nothing like what you’ve described.  In the end, my goal is fewer abortions.  Whatever way we get to that is fine by me.
If we're legalizing abortion in the case of rape, we're already making law based on extreme cases. But given the case that most rape is committed by someone close to the victim, I'm not sure the described situation is that uncommon. I mean, there's also the obvious question of how you determine if someone has been raped. Do you just have to check a box saying you've been raped? Do you need a conviction? Because I guarantee that a ban on abortion with an exception for rape is going to result in a huge surge of women claiming they were raped by someone whose face they conveniently never saw.
DNA must be obtained immediately, DNA is then placed into a database and legal remedy is now in the exclusive hands of the DA. Abortion performed. If the female changes her mind later and decides it's not actually rape she's charged accordingly for manslaughter, murder, etc. As an added bonus, men will then be more careful about who they have sex with to insure pregnancy does not occur.
So are you proposing that the DA verifies that a rape actually occurs, or would we just be relying on the woman admitting to lying later on?
In the California at least. If someone is assaulted to a degree (hit, minor injury) a victim must "press charges" against the assailant. If the assault is of a more severe degree (stabbed, shot, severe injuries) then the DA pursues the assailant regardless of what the victim's desire is.
And what if you don't know who the assailant is? Say you're shot in a drive-by through your window and the car is gone by the time you can go out and look?
You're talking about a drive by? I thought we were talking about rape? Two different crimes...
I'm asking about a drive-by to clarify what the law in California is that you're proposing as a model to base abortion law off of.

You’re probably right that more women will claim they’ve been raped.  I’m not sure that it’s going to be as many as you think, especially if they have to sign some affidavit where they say they’ve been raped.  I know that I would probably hesitate to lie on an official document. I think the end result will be a decrease in abortions, which is my goal.
At that point, you're just shifting the burden of proof onto the government, who would now have to prove that women who have abortions weren't raped. That's basically impossible to do for one woman, let alone the tens of thousands who'd be making such a claim.
Wouldn't the government have to find a rapist regardless as to whether or not a pregnancy occurs. I find it very acceptable expenditure of my tax dollars to get a rapist off the streets.
They might track down some rapists, but not finding a rapist doesn't mean that a woman wasn't raped, which is what would be necessary to enforce a ban with an exception for rape.
The burden is not and has never been the victim's burden. The police are supposed to catch criminals. The fact that a rapist is not caught in a timely fashion is of no consequence to the victim.
I never claimed that the burden was on the victim. But if you're going to have an abortion ban with a rape exception that doesn't just turn it into a formality, there need to be consequences for falsely claiming to be raped in order to get an abortion.

The thing is, I’m not necessarily interested in “proving” a woman was raped.  If she says she was, and she wants an abortion, no further investigation required.  Because I’m not sure you can really stop a woman who is determined to get an abortion, and I’m not interested in throwing women in jail who’ve had abortions. This is a way to decrease abortions.  The law will not eliminate it entirely - that will take a shift in consciousness.  This law would just be a way to stem the tide, so to speak, until that happens.
I didn't say anything about proving that a woman was raped; I'm saying the government would need to prove that a woman wasn't raped. Because if having to say you were raped is supposed to have a significant impact on the abortion rate, there has to be something to discourage false rape claims. If there's no penalty for falsely claiming that you were raped in order to get an abortion, then women are going to be checking the "I was raped" box as easily as we all check the "I have read and agreed to the Terms and Conditions" box. But if there's a penalty, but no way to ensure that the penalty isn't applied to women who actually have been raped, the law is going to get a lot of criticism. Ultimately, the kind of exception you described inevitably turns into either (a) a system in which everyone who gets an abortion is investigated by the government or (b) the honor system, where basically nothing changes. And considering that it's basically impossible to prove that something didn't happen, (a) basically devolves into (b) with extra wasted funds.
Do you really believe that all women who want an abortion would say they were raped in order to get one?  I wouldn’t.  And it’s not about me being pro-life.  It’s the fact that rape is a big deal.  And to lie about it is incredibly immoral, and hurts the cause of women who actually were raped.  I think most people feel that way.  If you don’t, then we look at the world and her people very differently, and I’m not sure we can come to any sort of consensus.  But that’s okay.  People can disagree.  :-) I think that there are many cases of teenagers feeling pressured to abort, and if we gave them that little bit of out that they’d have to lie and say they were raped in order to get an abortion, I think we’d save some lives. In any case, I don’t really see another way out of this.  I firmly believe rape victims have the right to an abortion if they want.  I’m not okay with investigating rape victims to “make sure” they were raped.  The justice system victimizes them enough.
What you're arguing for is summary execution without due process based on hearsay evidence. I mean, you're suggesting that we apply a lower standard of proof to murdering an innocent child than we do imprisoning the person who actually committed the rape. And if you make it a matter of policy that you'll never actually investigate whether or not such a claim is truthful, that point is going to be heavily stressed at abortion clinics. They'll repeat that it's "just a formality", and entirely confidential, and nothing ever happens to women who lie on the form. Sure, you might not want to lie on the form, but you're someone who's already against abortion, not a woman facing an unplanned pregnancy who believes she should be allowed to abort. That's assuming they bring it up at all, of course. Planned Parenthood is already telling women blatant lies about fetal development to get them to have abortions; do you think they'd be above just burying an "I attest that this pregnancy was caused by an act of rape" clause somewhere in the fine print of their standard waiver? What you're proposing isn't an abortion ban at all; it's just another hoop that a woman would have to jump through before getting an abortion, and a relatively minor one at that. Could it prevent a few abortions? Probably. But it'd be much less effective at doing that than even the most modest of pro-life measures in place today. It doesn't have the inconvenience factor of a waiting period because you're just checking a box, and it doesn't have the shame factor of parental notification because it's completely confidential. The only thing standing between millions of innocent, defenseless babies and being violently torn limb from limb would be whether or not their mothers happen to be such extreme paragons of virtue that even the extreme desperation and emotional duress associated with an unplanned pregnancy wouldn't be enough to get them to lie on a form that they're told ahead of time will never be seen by anyone else or checked for accuracy, while surrounded by people telling her that she should, and that doing so will make everything okay. I'm sorry, but that's a Captain America level of moral righteousness that's nowhere near as prevalent in society as you seem to think it is, and I suspect that subset is much less likely than the general public to even seek an abortion in the first place, which compounds the problem even further.

The thing is, plain and simple, many rapes are not "prosecutable." Mine definitely wasn't, and I was still raped. I didn't see his face, don't know his name, nobody saw it happening and there was no recording or evidence and no rape kit (I didn't realize I had been raped until a week later because I was raped while unconscious). So what if I had the abortion, the government investigated it, and decided I wasn't raped, as it happens with so many rape investigations? Does that mean I get thrown in jail?

So a rapist gets away with rape? The woman has a moral obligation to report a rape, what about other victims. What about all the women that could end up getting raped if the rapist gets away with it?
I think if you lack the moral conviction to not abort an innocent human, a piece of paper would hardly be a deterrent.
To give them abortion in the case of rape is just a band-aid but not a solution to the problem. They need to cut down on the amount of rapes happening. Otherwise, they are possibly even encouraging rapists- as the rapists will think they have no consequences.


Ask him if he'll nuke filibuster. Otherwise it's just words
So what happens if you nuke it, Dems sweep into power and fund PP thanks to no filibuster?
You're crazy if you think they won't nuke it the minute they get into power.
Given they had 6 years to do it under Obama, I’m not actually.
They nuked the judicial filibuster to pack the courts We on the other hand worked with them under bush and put forward centrists (Gang of 8 deal for example) Always chasing the car
They nuked the appellate filibuster because the GOP were filibustering their own blue slip judges. Yes, so GOP senators like Cruz were filibustering their own recommended judges. Also, I do not find having to go back to Bush era deal making intellectually honest as the GOP nuked the SCOTUS filibuster as well as packed the courts through dual nomination hearings of appellate level judges (something they criticized the Democrats doing).
Keep moving that goalpost If anyone is filibustering their own noms, its the dems and what they did to Gorsuch after voting for him by voice vote before Do you lefties just come here to troll?
Circuit court of appeals =! Supreme Court Interesting you don’t mention how GOP did that first with Garland
Stopping Garland was a GOOD thing. Do you really want to let them just pack the SCOTUS with crazy pro abortion judges?
It was a DISGUSTINGLY partisan and undemocratic thing, far from a good thing.

So you’re of the view that we should disregard democratic norms insofar it advances a preferred ideology?


I don't understand how someone can be pregnant for more than 12 weeks and not know. Can anyone enlighten me? When did you find out you were pregnant? I know it is possible for people to not know they are pregnant until birth but I thought this was very rare.
Some women have very irregular periods, so “missing one” isn’t always easy to tell.  Other factors can mask other symptoms as well. We have friends who for their last child didn’t even find out until they could feel the baby kick.


Personhood being a social construct has some very dangerous implications. If society/the government doesn't think you're a person, does that make you not a person?
Goodbye any meaningful ability to describe human rights.
It isn't the idea that personhood should be a social construct, it's more about realising that is a social construct.   However it is defined is going to be decided by people, even if you say it starts at conception, it's still a social construct, also rights themselves are a social construct so that it stands to reason that who they apply to would also be a social construct.
Given that it has no basis in objective reality, you cannot measure personhood in any meaningful way, there is nothing left for it but to be a social construct. You feel differently, then i suggest you start working on your dissertation. You have a nobel prize in your future if you can operationalize this idea.
What a fucking retard
What sub?
Not on Reddit. Blog over at Patheos.
Wow rude
That’s ridiculous, if we destroy personhood we destroy human rights
So if personhood doesn’t exist can we just take it out of the equation completely and base our laws on whose lives deserve protection based on the species of the organism in question? Since that’s determined by biology rather than philosophy which is fickle. So all organisms of the species Homo sapiens (of which the unborn most certainly are) get equal basic protections under the law. Throughout history personhood has been denied to certain groups of people to own, torture and kill them, personhood has been legally granted to animals and objects to elevate their status.... So I sort of agree with the OP’s premise but not their conclusion, in fact their conclusion from it makes no sense at all.
How would you determine who is a moral agent with rights and who is not? The concept of personhood is necessary in order to distinguish between those categories otherwise we are all just objects.
I think it would be pretty simple, if you are a living human organism you get the same basic rights as all the other living human organisms of which the right not to be killed, tortured, abused etc. are key. If either dead or not human you don’t get the same rights. Nobody can change their species, we are human organisms from our conception until our death, and there is very little gray area on what is considered dead or alive - certain brain death situations are in that gray area as there are certainly examples of people who have recovered after being declared brain dead but it is a very rare situation.
Under your view, why just human beings?
Because I’m a human being myself. I was a fetus in my past and I’ll be elderly in my future, I might become disabled or lose my mind to dementia, I will never change race or sex but I can still relate to those of other race/sex because we all share the same humanity. If some human beings deserve the right to not be killed all human beings deserve it, anything less than that is an injustice. If I were a dog or a cow I’d probably feel differently but then again I would never have the capacity to ponder these things or express my views on the matter.
If I were
Are you trying to base your view that human beings have objective rights on your subjective experience as a human being? This doesn't seem like an effective approach. Rather- I think that we can definitively say that human beings are in a different moral category form animals (humans have personhood) because of certain inherent things about humans.
The problem with personhood is that, as I said, our history is full of examples of it being denied to certain groups of people and granted to non-humans (objects, animals). If you say human (regardless of age, sex, color etc.) = person I do agree with you but we are still taking a biological quality everyone can understand - the species of an organism - and applying a moral value to it. I just believe that the moral value should be applied equally to all the members of the same species.
I'm not saying that it is species alone which is arbitrarily being chosen as the factor. Human beings categorically have the ability to understand moral intentionality, which is the reason that human beings as a category are persons.
I never said that the choosing of the species was arbitrary just that the same basic rights should apply to all the members of the same species. Personhood arguments always end up divulging into “Unless they meet my personal arbitrary criteria of what a person is they aren’t a person even if they are a human”.  I’ve come up against that again and again when debating PC people, even if you prove to them that the unborn are human beings in the biological sense they just switch to personhood argument and since throughout history personhood has been denied to all kinds of groups of humans everyone just decides for themselves who is or isn’t a person. I just never found personhood arguments very fruitful personally :/
As someone who has researched a lot on the topic, I have found the only coherent position to be that of pro lifers. Specifically, the idea that life begins at conception and abortion should be illegal. I concur with conservatives like Ben Shapiro on this matter. However, one question from the left that I've found difficult to answer is "Should women be prosecuted for murder?" Most conservatives, Shapiro included, see the mother as a victim of the mainstream abortion ideology and lacking of the mens rea (intent) to be charged for murder (the abortionists would be charged, instead). I find this to be one area where conservatives are not being intellectually honest. Even if you were to accept that premise, it would still be just under the law to try women for involuntary manslaughter or some other legal standard. There are several glaring holes in this logic. This article I think sums in up well.http://thefederalist.com/2017/09/20/ben-shapiro-wrong-prosecuting-women-get-abortions/I really don't like the reality of charging women for murder if abortion were illegal. However, I can't come up for a good refute to the position that women should be charged. Does anybody have a more convincing argument that women shouldn't be charged for murder?
Retroactively applying a murder ruling to the current abortions would be a poor use of law, so women currently murdering their children should not be prosecuted for murder in the event the law changes. But if abortions are illegal then yes, women who consent to an abortion should be prosecuted for murder.
I think we need to treat it much the same as (under Canadian criminal law) a woman who kills her own newborn child. The offence of infanticide under the Criminal Code is a lesser offence, punishable by five years' imprisonment; this is a recognition that a postpartum woman is often non compos mentis because of the hormone soup churning around inside her. The same can also be true of pregnant women, especially women in "crisis pregnancies". At the same time, though, this law makes it clear that the act is not condoned
That's very interesting but I honestly find that law ridiculous. The idea that a women's psychological state is so wacked from childbirth that she'd be partially justified in murder is crazy to me. I just read an article about a women who willingly murdered 3 of her babies by throwing them in the dumpster, and she received 18 months in jail. Don't think that's a great system for us.
But justice must also distinguish the moral character of the act from the culpability of the actor. You're correct to assert that no circumstance can justify the act of abortion or the act of infanticide. However, that has nothing to do with the degree to which the person who commits it is sufficiently compos mentis to be culpable for it.
I agree that the culpability of the actor is crucial in making these decisions. I just disagree that the degree of supposed mental instability in a postpartum woman is enough to justify murder. I'm no psychologist, but it seems radical to suggest that women after/during birth could randomly go on murderous streaks. I just read more about this issue and there are a lot of criticisms of it, so I think we'd have to think long and hard before we consider implementing something like that
This is an interesting bit of information, didn't know that.
Whilst I like a lot of his work, I HATE Ben Shapiro’s argument on this. Basically; Women don’t consider the Foetus human so they can’t have the legal will (mens rea) to have committed murder. The zeitgeist on the baby is so skewed we cannot fault women for their honestly held beliefs. We can fault the practitioner who knows better. Does the child of a White Supremacist if raised to think POCs are sub human have the mens rea for murder of a black man?  Was the SS soldier responsible for his personal crime of killing Jews? If the answer to the latter is yes, then surely the standard can be set for the former.
I personally think the provider should bare almost all of the weight of the abortion. I think prison is too much for the woman, but that would be up to the state. I don’t believe this is intellectually dishonest because not all killing of other humans is treated the same under the law. The methods and motivations are taken into consideration, and the sentence and punishment are given accordingly. I would say a fine would be a good idea, but poverty is highly correlated with abortions, so maybe a LOT of community service (perhaps at a free pregnancy center) would be a good substitute? The doctor who performed the procedure would obviously lose his license and spend some time in prison
I agree that if abortion is illegal, the abortionist should be put on trial for first degree murder in most cases. And i see what you're saying that not all killing is treating the same under the law. But even if u claim a women's role is involuntary manslaughter, she'd still be tried and probably face jail time. And if were gonna base murder charged purely off of mens rea, than what if the abortion provider doesn't believe he's murdering a life. Then is he innocent, too? There are loads of problems. My problem is really from a utilitarian perspective. There's no chance a pro life platform will survive under the premise that women should be charged for murder or any sort of killing. If i truly wish to save babies, I'd need to take the politically palatable position of Ben shapiro, for example. However, to do that would potentially compromise the moral principles I'm defending, and could undermine my argument.
I think we could slowly implement more severe punishments over time to give the culture time to adapt
I agree, and that's my current position
Yes, they should be charged with murder as if they killed their born child. (Of course, taking into account mitigating circumstances just as any other murder charge - her mental state, whether she made the decision under duress, etc.) I strongly disagree with people who say only the abortionist should be charged. Both should be - the person who hired the hitman is as guilty as the hitman himself.
I agree you have a very good case. My issue is that a pro life platform under that idea would likely not be successful. It would be considered radical, even to mainstream conservatives. I feel like a transitionary period would be necessary to give women more legal leeway, given the immense indoctrination of the abortion industry today. We can't deny that this question up till recently was not so clear given the lack of concrete scientific evidence. I think once it is solidified in the public conscious that human life begins at conception, then we can talk about women being charged for murder.
At the moment, while abortion is still legal I agree that we must not make perfection the enemy of good. But I firmly believe that getting abortion rightly prosecuted as murder should be an ultimate goal.
I think like with any killing, the facts of the case would be relevant as to whether or not the woman involved would be charged with murder. Certainly, the doctor performing the illegal abortion should be charged with murder. For the woman, I think it depends on if she understands what she is doing, if she does it freely of her own volition (not pressured by a partner or her family), etc. If the woman performs an abortion on herself, I think the same process for deciding whether or not to charge her with murder would still apply. I guess what I am saying is that similar to any other killing, the facts surrounding the situation would determine if it were considered murder, manslaughter, first or second degree, etc....as well as the subsequent sentence. But yes, if a woman seeks out an abortion, knows what she is doing, consents to it, and then proceeds, she should be just as guilty of murder as a woman who kills her child after it has been born.
There are a lot of women who have multiple abortions - absolutely they should be charged. The other category (first time) is still tricky. I believe they should be charged as well - regardless of the reason why they got an abortion,  it still ended one life and the potential that one life had. If they were under duress, maybe a fine or volunteering would suffice.  If the father pressured her into it, he should be charged with something as well. I see abortion as an overwhelming unwillingness to take responsibility for your actions. I've had a friend tell me point blank she cannot believe life at conception because one day she might need to get an abortion to keep her life on track. The left holds up rapes or medical reasons to keep abortion legal, but in all reality they are a low percentage of unplanned pregnancies. Unfortunately a lot of people buy into that. But if we succeed in banning abortions, support for mothers must go up. Churches need to step up to the plate and help with counseling, support, etc.. If we remove the fear and worry of being alone, a woman may choose  life.
This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.
This senate race in 2018 could decide who will control the Senate so we have to go ALL OUT to win it! Here's how YOU can help:Volunteer: We need people on the ground making sure voters turnout and you can help even if you're from another state (by travelling here or phone banking), more info here - https://www.wisgop.org/volunteer/Donating: At the moment the Democrat is leading in fundraising and has been given millions by radical pro abortion groups. Kevin needs YOUR help to bridge this gap and you can do so here - https://nicholsonforsenate.com/donate/Keep informed: You can keep informed of the latest campaign news here - https://twitter.com/KevinMNicholsonVoting: Perhaps the most important job of all! Make sure you get out to vote on November 6th 2018! If you need to register to vote then see here: https://vote.gov/Absentee: If you're serving in the military or aren't able to make it to election day for ANY reason see here for absentee ballots: https://www.fvap.gov/
Tammy Baldwin is 100% pro abortion. She's backed by Planned Parenthood and she needs to GO!
Sounds like he stuck his finger into the air and figured it would be easier to be a Republican if he wanted to become a career politician.
So people are not allowed to change in a 10 year period?
He appears to be another typical politician who says what people want to hear. I doubt he believes any of it.
I would much rather someone who just votes pro life in the senate than someone who is totally pro abortion.
That's fair. I would just rather see honesty in a politician at some point.
That party registration bit doesn't make him liberal. Even in a state like Arkansas most people are still registered Democrats.
What's wrong with Leah Vukmir?
Nothing. But Nicholson has a better chance (he's doing better in the polls and fundraising).

Well that's what happens when Democrats win (in 2017 Democrats flipped the chamber blue).

This really stood out to me: When I ask pro-choice people this all I ever get is "Why do I need to do any of that? I support abortion" and it's the most frustrating thing ever because it's like they just don't understand or are unwilling to understand that most abortions happen because the woman feels like she has no choice. Helping women in these situations actually gives them a real choice. Yet it is the pro-choice side who absolutely despise pregnancy resource centers, even going as far as organizing online attacks on them by having "events" to leave bad reviews for a particular center, having never even set a foot there, to tank all their ratings on review websites.
As the statistic goes, 1 in every 3 women (before the age of 50, I believe) will have an abortion. Who are the 1 in 3 in your lives, who do you know who has had a abortion? What are their feelings toward it?
I don't know, people don't tend to shout about their abortions from the rooftops. I know my mum said she considered having one when she got knocked up with me but then in her words "the pregnancy hormones kicked in and I decided to keep you".
My mom.  She said that life after her abortion was like an episode of the Twilight Zone every day.  She has had battled depression and anxiety as long as I've been alive.
I'm sorry to hear that, she shouldn't have felt any pressure from anyone to make her have an abortion, it was completely her choice to have one or not. Everyone's experience is different.
Two of my best friends growing up. My sister and my mother. Three were just young and pressured. And one was a case where there was a life threatening condition for her and the child had zero chance of survival (perhaps not even an abortion but more of an early induction). I also have two other acquaintances I know about that had more than one each.
Me. 👋🏼

I'm glad they had access to the abortions and they felt it was right for them at the time. I'm also glad those abusive relationships ended and she didn't have a child possibly anchoring her down to the relationship
Most women don't want to talk about it, but I've only ever met one that I know of.
It's true that most women don't want to talk about it and I'm wondering why. From the women I've personally talked to, it's because they don't regret their decision but society has so much stigma around the medical procedure, that they don't want others to shame them
I mean a lot of people cheat on their spouses which is not illegal but it is looked down on so most people don't talk about it even though it is common.
Right But cheating on a spouse isn't a valid medical option and isn't something being regulated by the government
A lot of people don't view (elective) abortions as a "valid medical option" that should be legal/regulated. Just because is legal doesn't mean it has to be socially accepted.
Adultery laws are still on the books in a few states and in others can impact alimony and custody agreements in divorce court. So in some sense it is regulated by the government.
I know plenty of women (say close to 50) that I actively keep in touch with, only one (my godmother/aunt figure) has had an abortion 25 years ago because her Catholic parents demanded it. She married the father and had 3 great boys but always wanted a daughter. Everyday she wonders if that baby would've been a girl.
I'm really sorry to hear about her experience 25 years ago. Abortion is such a personal medical decision, and is a choice people need to make without judgment and without pressure.
My male friend just told me he got a "Catholic" girl pregnant, and she had to have an abortion so her family didn't know she was having sex before she was married.
Nothing spices up premarital sex like murder
Oh my god, your male friend killed his girlfriend? I'm so sorry
Eh? 😁
That's not a statistic, it was a prediction that didn't come true IIRC.
It's true that the 1 in 3 stat was a prediction, but it was a prediction of how LOW the abortion rate would be from 1992. AKA it's probably higher than 1 in3. However, the institute that carried out the stat to see how much lower the rate was actually used almost 10K real-life answers
The prediction was about Americans in the 1990s but actually, the abortion rate has decreased since then. edit: article on it https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/fact-checker/wp/2015/09/30/the-stale-claim-that-one-in-three-women-will-have-an-abortion-by-age-45/?utm_term=.004a001b3343
It's now about 1 in 4
And to answer your question, no women in my life have had abortions, thank God. But if I knew someone who did, I would feel about her no differently than if she murdered her born child.
1 in 4 is a pretty big number, at least much bigger than I would've thought. If you know more than 4 women, stats say you probably know at least 1 person who has that an abortion. I feel sorry for them because if they're not telling you, and they're hearing you say this, I can't imagine the shame and guilt you're making them feel, for having a medical procedure that they decided would be best for them.
That's not how statistics work. About 1 in 4 adults are illiterate, but chances are you don't even know one of them. Yeah, if they killed their toddler they should feel guilt and shame too. I feel sorry for exactly 0 women who have abortions, unless they are forced against their will. I feel sorry for the children ripped to pieces. Right, you're another baby murder advocate just here to start arguments.
Theoretically, those numbers add up, but in practice, that's probably not quite how it works. For instance, one of the major factors for abortions is poverty, and another is location (access to number of abortion facilities, etc). So if you live in, say, an affluent area in Louisiana or something, you're far less likely to have friends who've had an abortion than somewhere like inner city areas in Oregon or something.
Of course
That's not how statistics work at all. I mean, one in every 6.45 people lives in Africa, but I don't know a single person in Africa.
IIRC, while the "1 in 3" figure might be an accurate average, that doesn't necessarily mean that 33% of women will have an abortion. I remember reading somewhere that it's skewed because women who have one are more likely to have more. Therefore, it's (probably) a lower percentage of women who do it, but those who do tend to have more abortions. In cases like these it would be much more accurate to use a median number, but I'm not sure how different it would be. And, if the median was significantly different than the average, I don't doubt people would still use the average to further their own narrative.
No one, as far as I remember, but more recently I discovered an old acquaintance from highschool making posts on FB about "woman's choice".
A close family member, a family friend, a (pro-life) neighbor, relatives' girlfriends.  And they were all relieved and did not regret their choices.
I'm glad they felt better and felt relief :) Being forced into an unwanted pregnancy is horrendous, and everyone's individual circumstance is different. I myself had an abortion after rape. The other women I know who had them included; having an ectopic pregnancy, which is fatal. having an IUD contraceptive with 99.9% success rate, so she did everything right and was responsible, but this just happened. being in an abusive relationship with coersion and sexual violence.

It actually translates to "what would my life have been without you", which puts more emphasis on the choice to be made than the article lets on
Thank you, that does fit better with the video. I couldn’t help but think about my baby daughter when watching it, she was playing peekaboo with a curtain just like that with me the other day... what would my life have been without her? I can’t even imagine. Needless to say I cried my eyes out watching it :(
Nice video


That IS what a pro-life feminist looks like and it's great.

It comes off as kind of creepy/sleazy.

Bahahaha. Ok. See ya.
Huh, I've never actually considered that argument before. Really cool!
When debating or challenging someone on their ideas, you have to approach it from their foundation.  This is a great way to shut up the oppression types, because it's ABSOLUTELY true that this just redistributes the problem rather than tackling the root of it.
FINALLY!! THIS IS HOW THE PRO-LIFE MOVEMENT WINS. Pro-Life Feminism!!!
As long as it’s not the pink haired sjw type
hahahahaha nice username. Also, I go to a very liberal school and this whole SJW trope isn't nearly as common as you'd think watching Fox News.
I go to a very liberal school as well.  You’re right, it’s not super common.  I was just explaining that the misandrists are not feminists and are not the type we want to associate with. I don’t have a tv so I can’t watch Fox News.
Now this is a Feminist I can support.
Word.
Does anyone know a source? If I share this elsewhere I want to give credit where credit is due.
It was posted on New Wave Feminist's facebook page.
Destiny from NWF posted it. If you want more pics, I have tons. I assist Stand True in DC and Walk for Life in SF. This one was taken in SF.
Oh, and I got plenty of MFL pictures including several of Rehumanize (similar to NWF). My article: https://aleteia.org/2018/01/19/14-wokest-signs-at-the-march-for-life-2018/
I posted it & just credited NWF

Trudeau is scum
For the record, it's me and my organization taking the government to court. It was only our request for an interim injunction that was denied. The court has not yet addressed any of the constitutional arguments about the Canada Summer Jobs abortion attestation.
What would your organization's next step be?
We're just waiting for the judicial review to commence. Our application was for judicial review of the attestation under Sections 2(a), 2(b) and 15 of the Charter. (The injunction request that was dismissed was for an extra interim request for relief while awaiting the judicial review.) The next step in the judicial review is a hearing on the merits. A date for that hasn't been set yet.

Babylon Bee is on fire lately
Let's not punish children who are in their situation for no fault of their own Dems said about dreamers while aborting kids

Obligatory if they didn't have double standards, they'd have no standards at all comment.
This is a satire site in case you did not know. Also stunningly accurate.
While an adamantly opposed to elective abortions EVER, I do think that the 20 week abortion ban was wrong, unless it gave exceptions to extreme medical cases both in the mother and child.  If there a SEVERE medical abnormalities it should be up to patient and doctor to make decisions.
it did
It gave no exceptions for fetal anomalies. Additionally, its exceptions for the health of the pregnant person were only "if necessary to save the life of the mother."  30% risk of death?  Wouldn't qualify.
Would 1% not be enough? Pregnancy is always risky Not sure a mom should be able to abort her downs baby
I don't think that people should abort Downs children specifically, but there are other trisomy defects where 90+% of children effected die by one year and that year is spent suffering.  In those cases abortion IS more human and should be an option for the parents.
Hey, now you're making my arguments for me! In any case, I know I'm not going to change your mind on most of this.  You made a factual claim that was wrong.  That's the extent of my point there. Medically speaking, it's hard to get scenarios in pregnancy where somebody has a 100% chance of dying without having their pregnancy delivered (I'm making this statement neutral with respect to whether we are before or after viability; i.e. whether it's an abortion or not).  It's easy to have situations where we can say they have an unusually high risk of dying or having permanent disability unless they're delivered.  The language of the law would be very hard to meet.  I have had enough patients with severe cardiac conditions that some of them would have died if this law were true.
I'm not making anything for you. The chance of dying in a car crash is pretty high. I look forward to you regulating everything Then again it's what liberals do. Oh fuck off. You're not the only physican here. This law was very tolerant on the mother's life exemption. Kennedy is retiring soon and that's where we'll defeat people like you. At SCOTUS
This is a really confusing situation. See, the risk of dying in a motor vehicle collision has gone down dramatically over the past sixty years because of extensive regulation of motor vehicles.  You probably drive a car with a crumple zone, seatbelts, and airbags.  If not, then I applaud you for your adherence to your convictions and the road. However, at the moment we're discussing abortions, which are already extremely safe (reminder: I do not think fetuses are people), and which conservatives are trying to regulate under pretextual concerns of safety (see: TRAP laws), and which liberals are trying to prevent the regulation of. So your comment just pulls me all over the place.
Err no, Conservatives are trying to restrict abortion because we see fetuses at human.
Oh, don't worry, I didn't think you were doing it to protect the health of pregnant people.
Sometimes idk why you come here

Disabled children deserve no less protection and killing them is still murder.
That's not what J973 is talking about. If the mother and/or child's life is at risk, such as the case in many 20-week abortions (which make up a minuscule fraction of overall abortions) then, yes, it should be up to the patient and doctor to make the decision.
Statistically it's not actually true that the majority of 20+ weeks abortions are done for medical reasons, that's just another lie spread by the proponents of abortion and sadly so many people buy it because nobody researches it. This will be long but here are a few sources: According to the Guttmacher Institute, Planned Parenthood’s former research arm, most women get late-term abortions for the same reasons they get early abortions, often for socioeconomic reasons. According to a survey in the Journal of Perspectives of Sexual and Reproductive Health, these are the reasons why women have late-term abortions: 45% had trouble finding abortion provider 37% unsure of date of last menstrual period 68% had no pregnancy symptoms 58% Didn’t confirm pregnancy until in second trimester 30% had difficulty deciding on abortion 31% had previous second trimester abortion Did not cite a single case of fetal abnormality “Second Trimester Abortion: Logistics and Lack of Symptoms are Factors” Perspectives of Sexual and Reproductive Health Volume 38 No 2, June 2006 https://www.guttmacher.org/journals/psrh/2006/second-trimester-abortion-logistics-and-lack-symptoms-are-factors In a 1995 speech at a National Abortion Federation Convention in New Orleans, Tiller made this statement: We have some experience with late terminations; about 10,000 patients between 24 and 36 weeks and something like 800 fetal anomalies between 26 and 36 weeks in the past 5 years. This means that only 800 out of 10,000 post-24-week abortions were on unhealthy children. A former employee of Tiller, Luhra Tivis, confirmed this pattern in an article in 1994 (1): "I witnessed evidence of the brutal, cold blooded murder of over 600 viable, healthy babies at seven, eight and nine months gestation. A very, very few of these babies, less than 2%, were handicapped[.] … I thought I was pro-choice and I was glad to be working in an abortion clinic. I thought I was helping provide a noble service to women in crisis. … I was instructed to falsify the age of the babies in medical records. I was required to lie to the mothers over the phone, as they scheduled their appointments, and to tell them that they were not ‘too far along’ Then I had to note, in the records that Dr. Tiller’s needle had successfully pierced the walls of the baby’s heart, injecting the poison what brought death[.]" After Tiller, Dr. Susan Robinson, who performs third-trimester abortions at her clinic in Albuquerque, admits that not all the women who come in for late abortions are there because of a deformity or flaw in the baby: “Then there’s the group of women who didn’t know they were pregnant. They were told they were not pregnant for one reason or another and they are just as desperate. ‘I already have three children, my husband just lost his job and I can barely put food on the table. If I add a new baby to this family, we’ll all go under.’” Another quote from Robinson: "Well, a large percentage of our patients had no idea that they were pregnant. People go, “How could this possibly be?” Well, look at that reality show. It happens. Maybe you’re a little heavy and you already have irregular periods, or you had intercourse once, several months ago, and the guy said he pulled out and there’s no sex education in your school so you think everything’s fine. Or you never have periods because you’re very thin, or a doctor has told you you were infertile." https://www.thehairpin.com/2013/09/interview-with-dr/#.e5948gmmy Sarah Elizabeth Brown was even a HEALTHY 36 week old child in utero when her young mother scheduled a LTA with George Tiller. The injections meant to pierce her heart and kill her in a heinous and painful fashion, instead pierced her face and brain...permanently blinding and disabling her. She was born ALIVE. She was adopted and lived for 5 years before dying from complications from her injuries. https://www.findagrave.com/cgi-bin/fg.cgi?page=gr&GRid=64416216 Ron Fitzsimmons, the executive director of the National Coalition of Abortion Providers admitted on ABC’s “Nightline” that he had LIED when he asserted the late term D&X procedure was used rarely and only on women whose lives were in danger. The reality is, this method of killing babies was done many thousands of times a year. Abortionist, Dr. McMahon, admitted to performing over 2,000 D&X late term abortions in '95 alone. http://www.nytimes.com/1997/02/26/us/an-abortion-rights-advocate-says-he-lied-about-procedure.html The abortion industry would like you to believe LTA are only performed on severely deformed babies. However, abirtionist Dr. Haskell said in a tape recorded interview with the AMA’s American Medical News: "...and I’ll be quite frank: most of my abortions are elective (not medically necessary) ... In my particular case, probably 20% are for genetic reasons. And the other 80% are purely elective." An article in the L.A. Times listed some of the medical reasons for a late term D&X abortion at the time. They included cleft palates, cystic hygroma, (both easily corrected problems) and cystic fibrosis. The medical conditions present in the mother that warranted this type of abortion were, “depression, chicken pox, diabetes, vomiting ...” In other words, even those partial birth abortions that are done for the “health of the mother” or because of a “defective fetus” are often performed for minor, easily correctable conditions. Over 18,000 elective late-term abortions are performed in the USA every year. This number only includes fetuses at least 20 weeks old. The vast majority of late-term abortions occur not because of any health problems, but because of delay in diagnosis of pregnancy. Cassing Hammond, “Recent Advances in Second Trimester Abortion: An Evidenced-based Review” American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 200 (April 2009): 347–356.
Not to nitpick, but doesn't the second trimester start at 12 weeks, not 20?
Yes, but 20 weeks is well within the second trimester which ends beginning week 28. Also there are a few sources I put up there which specifically talk about 20+ weeks :)
The second trimester is week 13 to week 26, so 20+ weeks only covers the second half of the second trimester.
Actually that's not quite true, it varies somewhat in Gynecology but most sources say it begins at the end of week 27, so in week 28. https://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/pregnancy-week-by-week/in-depth/fetal-development/art-20045997 https://www.fitpregnancy.com/pregnancy/pregnancy-calendar/your-third-trimester-week-week https://www.whattoexpect.com/third-trimester-of-pregnancy.aspx http://www.parenting.com/article/when-does-third-trimester-pregnancy-begin But anyway, 20 weeks is well within the second trimester and as I said, I have put up sources which mention 20+ weeks specifically as well.
"Abnormalities" is only used to refer to the child, not the mother. But for your scenarios: If the mother's life is at risk, go ahead an deliver the child early. Killing the baby first won't benefit her at all, so an abortion is totally killing for the sake of killing. If the child's life is at risk, abortion should be a decision? Wtf? So next time my kid gets sick I should say "he could die anyway, might as well kill him now and get over with it"?
You do realize that babies are born with horrifying medical conditions that are incompatible with life, right?  Like NO BRAIN....or organs being born outside the body?  Or again, horrifying diseases where it's crueler to not abort them.  That's real life.
It’s never crueler not to kill someone. Even those with what you consider horrifying condiotions do not deserve to be murdered.
That's your opinion and it's extreme views like yours that actually hurt the cause of making elective abortions illegal, because my thoughts right now are "It's none of your business" "It's not your body or your choice".... I am old enough to know that there are MANY times death is more humane and kind than continuing with life.   I take it you haven't witnessed anyone in screaming pain from cancer?  Or when your 93 year old Auntie is begging you to kill her.  Or when hospice withholds water to "speed things up", but doesn't just end things with a pill or shot like they give to dogs. Have you ever euthanized a pet that was suffering?  Humans should have at least the same courtesy give to pets-- but we don't because of people like you.  That means if I ever get terminal, I'll just have to take care of myself.  Fentanyl seems like a pretty good way to go.
Killing an innocent human being is always unjust, it's not just my opinion. Your view that certain people, such as children with severe disabilities,  deserve to die because they suffer from a disease is the only extreme one here.
Again, you haven't watched people you LOVE dying a slow death, have you?
Do you support legalizing euthanasia for infants and toddlers with terminal illness as Well? If not, you are logically inconsistent.

Poor assumption. I did last year. And yeah, it would've been murder if I'd killed him.

I'm not talking about disabled.  I'm talking about terminal, not compatible with life past hours or possibly a year of suffering.

Only if you don't count those killed during abortion procedures.
Yeah, and Iceland has eradicated Down's Syndrome, didn't you know?
Since prenatal screening tests were introduced in Iceland in the early 2000s, the vast majority of women -- close to 100 percent -- who received a positive test for Down syndrome terminated their pregnancy.
Kind of their point.
Yes. I'm paraphrasing an article with a link for those interested in finding out more as I just had to Google this myself.

?? I wasn't defending anything.
Of course neither a fetus nor a human embryo is an infant.  Otherwise the infant mortality rate would also include the miscarriage rate.


nuke filibuster
Well I was right, the vote went on a pretty much party line with those expected defectors from the Republican side.  It would have been enough if they didn't have to deal with cloture requiring 60 votes, but that's the Senate for you. Frankly, this would have probably been a decent compromise position for both sides given health reason exceptions.  Small win for the pro-life side, slightly better moral position for the pro-choice side.  But at this point, it's just parties voting because they won't want to be seen making any compromise on a hot button issue.  Sad, but unsurprising.
Trump will say anything. He is not for the cause.
His actions have spoken louder than his words if you ask me. Even if he is personally pro abortion he has still delivered pro life policy.
That quote is from 1999.
It is easy to find other quotes on a wide range of issues that show Trump shifted his positions for political gain.
I'm willing to give him the benefit of the doubt since I myself used to support abortion - and a lot more recently than 1999, at that! But even if he is only prolife for political gain, I'll take that over someone who is prochoice for any reason. The lives of unborn children are more important than the honesty of politicians, so I care about actions and policy more than quotes.
That bill would have done almost nothing to actually reduce abortions. A tiny minority occur post 20 weeks, and a majority of them are for health reasons.
That sounds ridiculously evil when you realize you're talking about murdering babies. Also there is no abortion for "health reasons" after 20 weeks. If you're talking about killing babies who have health problems, then that's just the same old cruelty towards the disabled. If you're talking about life threatening conditions for the mother, there's no case where killing the baby before early delivery would save her.
That sounds ridiculously evil when you realize you're talking about murdering babies. You can do better than that. there was exceptions built in for HR. /u/Trumpologist If there aren't any health reasons, why would they exempt them? And you also have to ignore the side effects of being pregnant, which do have a negative effect on the mother's health. Oh and lets also ignore people like Savita Halappanavar.
Of course I can do better than murdering babies. What's your point? Same reason they exempted <20 week abortions. It's to please people, not to be moral. Not worse than the side effect of abortion on the baby's health. You keep trying to bring her up but it fails every time. Killing her baby would have done absolutely nothing for her.
There are health reasons, and there was a mother's life exception built into the bill There are elective abortions after 20 weeks, and even a single one is evil and vile
Source? Last I checked, the best source we have on reasons for abortion was that old Gutenberg survey, and it didn't ask that question iirc.
all the more reason to pass it there was exceptions built in for HR
A bill banning abortion after 20 weeks wouldn't have reduced abortion done earlier than that? Wow, we had no idea this only applied to abortions after 20 weeks! No they aren't. Majority after 20 weeks are done for the same reasons as first trimester (elective reasons not related to health). PP and NARAL are lying to you about this. See here and here.
Humanity begins at the beginning.For the human being, human rights never begin at a point in time and they never end at a point in time. Human rights apply always to all humans.
Every human was a human at the beginning of their existence. They never became human. They will never cease to be human.
Love and peace toward unborn women and  all women are excellent things.
Yes, it's frankly disgusting for me to see how they use abortion in other countries to abort females selectively, and then have actual feminists insist that it is great to ensure that everyone can have an abortion on demand for no other reason than they just want one.
Nobody wants an abortion. They don’t want babies.
They want abortions available at any time, for any reason whatsoever.  That is what abortion on demand is. Yes, there are plenty of people who want abortions, as opposed to delivering children to term.
Unfortunately, there are people who want abortions, like Lena Dunham. Also, there are many women who abort late term, which involves killing the baby prior to delivery rather than just delivering. That's an abortion purely to kill rather than adopt.
YOU FUCKING NAZI!!11! YOU HATE WOMEN!!1!
This submission has been randomly featured in /r/serendipity, a bot-driven subreddit discovery engine. More here: /r/Serendipity/comments/7uc9zf/nothing_that_is_human_either_begins_to_be_human/
Yes, but why does this only apply to humans and not other living things?
Example being?
Do dead humans have rights?
Actually yeah they do. You can't do whatever you want to someone just because they're dead.
You can't do whatever you want to a dog either, but that doesn't mean they have human rights.
No, they have animal rights lol
You’re not human because you have rights; you have rights because you’re human.  Not all rights are solely human rights and not everyone who has rights is human.
Cemeteries and grave sites exist to give honor to the dead.   Many believe that burial is more honorable than cremation and scattering of ashes.  Many have affirmed the moral rectitude of a "decent burial" and "proper funeral" or memorial service. As stated in the US Declaration of Independence, human rights are "inalienable" and "endowed by the Creator". Views differ but many give huge respect to the dead.
Views differ but many give huge respect and pay significant expenses to honor the memory of dead and to give a respectful disposition to their human bodies.  These types of practices have been followed for hundreds and thousands of years.


evil, vile, people May the future remember you with the same scorn and revulsion slavers merit
For all the talk of being more like Europe in our laws, culture, and government, this should have been an easy one, considering most of Europe bans abortion after 20 weeks. It's time to catch up with the rest of the world!
Boooo.
From what I've read, a premature baby was born at 21 weeks. I just don't understand how anyone can accept abortion even when the baby doesn't need the mother to live.
VERY FEW survive at 21 weeks.  I think the rate jumps from like 25% to 75% survival between 23 and 25 weeks, but they are able to save younger and younger WANTED babies with new technology.
I’m hoping that this hurts the no voters in the next election.
Senate Opponents of No Voters: MO - https://give.victorypassport.com/hawley/donate-today/ WI - https://nicholsonforsenate.com/donate/ MI - https://penslerforsenate.com/donate/ ND - https://tomfornorthdakota.com/donate-page/ MT - https://www.mattformontana.com/donate VA - https://secure.anedot.com/nick4senate/donate
In the world there is little that's more evil than politicians who stay in power with the blood of babies on their hands.
Very sad
I hope that it just didn't pass because there were no medical exceptions, which as I said yesterday I think there should be.  If people are choosing to abort a WANTED BABY, it's a hard enough decision, it's not for fun, it's because they think they are doing what is best for the baby.
It did have an exception if the life of the mother is at risk though honestly it is not needed. Here is a good article which talks about what a late term abortion entails, from the article: In a second trimester abortion the child's limbs are ripped off one at a time, starting with his legs, while he is still alive. Then they pull the pieces of the child, who has now a nervous system and a heart and lungs, through the birth canal and then reassembling the pieces of him like a jigsaw puzzle to make sure there aren't any parts left inside the mother. For abortions after 25 weeks, the child is stabbed in the brain or heart with a fatal dose of poison, which will cause a massive heart attack. If the baby did not die after the first dose, then he is injected  again a day later, after he has spent the last 24 hours in excruciating pain. The mother then carries her dead child around in her womb for a couple more days before she delivers him into a toilet or on an operating table. So how could it be medically necessary to dismember a baby or stab poison into his head? How could it be medically necessary to actually deliver a child but then kill him moments before he fully emerges from the birth canal? Of course it cannot be. It may be sometimes necessary to deliver a child early, but there is no legitimate reason to kill the child before delivering him. It would be, in fact, safer and simpler to deliver him alive.

In the analogy the person is forcibly attached to the violinist. Other than pregnancy through rape, which is exceedingly rare, the woman is voluntarily attaching the baby to herself by choosing sex that has a risk of resulting in pregnancy.
If someone raises a violinist argument I often find it easier to point this out and ask if they'd support restricting abortions only to cases of rape and other "extraordinary circumstances". Usually they don't, we get back to the crux of why, and it saves having to engage in a complex philosophical sideshow that distracts from the main points.
The violinist was the first pro-choice argument that someone tried on me when I was in middle school, as I recall.  It made as little sense to me then as it does now, although it did illustrate the mindset of the pro-choice side all too well, unfortunately.
This may be unpopular but I personally feel like after we die we should all be mandatory organ donors for those who are still alive and can prolong and enrich their lives from those tissues/bones. Like the article mentions though, abortion is much more than simply "taking someone off dialysis or life support"  It is literally poisoning a fetus to the point of miscarriage, or in the case or surgical abortion literally removing the baby limb-by-limb sometimes while it is still moving. Not many would say poison or vivisect the violinist. Again, these are two separate issues.
My understanding is that mifepristone blocks progesterone and helps contribute to expelling the uterine lining. Misoprostol is used to induce labor, and can be / is used in later stages of the pregnancy when the fetus is viable as well. Wouldn't this be akin to first stopping the flow of bodily fluids from the host to the violinist (mifepristone) and then disconnecting them (Misoprostol)? To me it's a clear parallel and the abortion pill is one of the major reasons I'm pro-choice. I'm up in the air as to whether the violinist hypothetical applies to surgical abortions.
Killing a child by forcibly disconnecting them from the uterus is more comparable to suffocating someone and saying you're just disconnecting them from the air, or dropping a baby to death and saying you're just withdrawing support. If you want to compare to denying treatment to the violinist, it's like refusing to do an embryo adoption.
The violinist argument fails on so many levels, it's sad that there are people who actually buy into it.

😞😞😞😞😞😞
There is no country that depresses me more than Ireland. How far they have fallen - it's hard to hold on to hope.
The Catholic Church was the most powerful a respected group in Ireland for decades. They abused that power however (no need to go into details: we all know what they did), and now the Irish are willing to take whatever steps necessary to break that power. Like it or not, it's working. The church has been decimated by scandal and loss of followers over the past 20 years.
The price should not be the lives of the innocent
No, the Catholic Church led Ireland for 1500 years. Scandal has been little more than an excuse, and icing on the cake for Ireland's apostasy. You don't start campaigning for 2+2=5 just because a few math teachers are corrupt. Ireland didn't conveniently suffer the scandals that broke the camel's back in those few decades out of the last millenium and half, it secularized for the same reasons as other European countries. If the first step of the secularized Irish is to slaughter their unborn children, they're proving themselves incapable of any semblance of morality without the Church. One day they will regret their choice, perhaps under Sharia. But it's a shame that they will kill their own children until then. Who knew that Irish children were safer under English rule?
I kinda get where you're coming from but you're looking at it from an overly extreme point of view. The vast majority of children will still be born. And it's ironic that you mention Irish children were safer under British rule when under the status quo, Irish women have to go to Britain for abortions. At the very least it's positive that Ireland is facing up to their own internal issues rather than shipping them over for the UK to sort out and pretending back home like nothing is wrong
So you're saying it is better that they're manning up and killing their own children?  That's not really making me feel better. I mean, just about everyone who has murdered people in a terror, or a progrom or a genocide has let "most" of the people live.  Simply allowing most children to not be killed is not a very high bar.
Ok, I see where you're coming from. You're prolife, I'm profile but I'm willing to accept the will of the people. This is just one of those things where we both have an opinion and it's we're probably not gonna find middle ground
Fair enough, but understand there is a big difference between accepting the will of the people on something like gay marriage, which really doesn't hurt anyone, even if as a Catholic I disagree with it, and the death of another person for a mere standard of living bump for the mother. At some point, the will of the people becomes indefensible when it is just that wrong.  There needs to be limits to what we will accept, even from democracy.
TFW not killing babies is "extreme". That means nothing when murdering them is legal. You don't just say, the vast majority of people don't get raped and murdered so it's no big deal to legalize rape and murder, do you? Irish women never had to get abortions (nor did anyone else). And actually, abortion was illegal nearly the entire time Ireland was under foreign rule - so yeah, their children were safer then. Wtf? It's better for them to murder their own children?
You have much stronger feelings in this than I do. You're pro choice, that's not going to change. With time/life experience I could lean in either direction. As of now, I believe that a woman should have a choice with what happens inside her own body. In cases of rape/incest/FFA I fully support abortion as my sympathy is with the mother and what she's going through against her will. I'm totally against accidental pregnancy's because if a girl does get pregnant she can always "just decide" to go for an abortion. Finally, and this will be controversial, I kinda do believe in the right to an abortion where the fetus/child is still not viable outside the womb. Obviously this time frame will get shorter as technology improves
Umm I'm definitely not prochoice when the choice involves murder. I agree, but that choice only applies to her own and not the child's.

The title is a bit misleading. It's actually a vote to end the debate and prevent further filibustering. If you look at the results though it is very clear which side supports continuing the debate and which side wants to end it.
I guess this is one of those 'good things' we got when Alabama elected the predictable Dem vote of Doug Jones.
I think cloture was never going to happen, even without his help, but yes, it definitely did not help. I admit that I am almost as pissed that they ran Roy Moore as I am that Doug Jones won.  That election was nothing more than a referendum on Moore himself and who could stomach his antics, and now children are going to suffer for it.
I wouldn't call him a "predictable Dem vote" seeing he's voted with R's more than D's last time I checked.
Uh voted to shut up about it you mean
A vote against cloture is de facto opposition to a bill.
Ah ok
One of my senators voted to keep late term abortion and he’s up for re-election. Guess who’s not getting my vote?
I'm Irish, and since we're holding a referendum on the issue in four months, I think it's about time for me to make up my mind.My gut instinct does tell me that abortion is wrong however, logically speaking I do not see what exactly is immoral about killing non-sentient life forms. I'll admit that there issues of irresponsibility and miseducation, but I don't think there's anything wrong, per se, with killing no sentient life.As I understand it, sentience doesn't begin until sometime toward the end of the fetal stage, so up until that time, the embryo/fetus has no preferences, desires, interests, or wants that would be curtailed by abortion. If being human means anything, it at minimum means being able to experience the world subjectively. It means being able to perceive better and worse situations - being able to suffer psychologically or physically.So essentially, my question is, why do you believe that non-sentient fetuses have inherent moral value or that we have any direct duties to non-sentient life that would demand that we, let alone the state, violate the rights of actual rights-holders (i.e., women)?
First of all, props to keeping an open mind about this. There are already several posts here defending the unborn, so I'll try another angle: The abortion industry harms women. (The following stats are US-based.) Up to 64% of abortions involve coercion. A study published in a major international medical journal found that 64% of American women who had abortions felt pressured by others. Coercion can include loss of home, job or family, and even violent assault. In a survey of women who sought help after abortion, 83% said they would have carried to term if they had received support from the baby’s father, their family, or other important people in their lives. In 95% of cases, men play a central role in the decision to abort according to a survey of women at abortion clinics. Husbands and boyfriends threaten women at the clinic. A former abortion clinic security guard testified before the Massachusetts legislature that women were routinely threatened and abused by the husbands and boyfriends who took them to the clinics to make sure they had abortions. Homicide is the leading killer of pregnant women. The “Forced Abortion in America” report includes examples of molesters posing as fathers to procure cover-up abortions and women being fired, beaten, shot, stabbed, tortured or killed for refusing to abort. Suicide rates are 6-7 times higher compared to women who give birth. You know who does benefit from the abortion industry? Men. Men who can treat women like sex toys, and rapists who can "destroy the evidence" of their crimes. Men who can convince women that they're not strong enough to have both a successful career and a baby. Men are more likely to vote pro-choice than women. Sources: -VM Rue et. al., “Induced abortion and traumatic stress: A preliminary comparison of American and Russian women,” Medical Science Monitor 10(10): SR5-16, 2004. -https://www.evernote.com/shard/s421/sh/d862ace0-71fe-448d-8d04-b63460b66271/21e9f88a4a61ed4febff1d727c22e2ed -D. Reardon, Aborted Women, Silent No More (Springfield: IL, Acorn Books, 2002) -M.K. Zimmerman, Psassages Through Abortion (New York: Praeger Publishers, 1977) -Brian McQuarrie, “Guard, clinic at odds at abortion hearing,” Boston Globe, April 16, 1999. -I.L. Horton and D. Cheng, “Enhanced Surveillance for Pregnancy-Associated Mortality-Maryland, 1993-1998,” JAMA 285(11): 1455-1459 (2001) -Gissler, Hemminki & Lonnqvist, "Suicides after pregnancy in Finland, 1987-94: register linkage study," British Journal of Medicine 313:1431-4, (1996); and M Gissler, “Injury deaths, suicides and homicides associated with pregnancy, Finland 1987-2000,” European J. Public Health 15(5):459-63 (2005). -http://ukpollingreport.co.uk/blog/archives/6253
I do not think the best defense for pro life is about coercion when it comes to reproductive rights. Even if abortion harms women, that is not saying that abortion is wrong or that it warrants taking away the rights of women. This post implies that there is more wrong with the way men treat women then there is with abortion. Additionally, taking away a women's chance at abortion is just another form of reproductive coercion. Women do have agency and many choose to have abortions for their own reasons. Look I do not think abortion is good. However, I think arguments like this often imply women are not the ones who choose their abortions and a lot of times they are. Even if coerced abortion is an issue, coerced pregnancy is the same issue on a different side. Both can be terrible for the woman.
I agree and disagree to that point.  Women do have independent control over their choices, but in cases where violent threats are absent, the pressure from society remains.My own mother was shamed for not aborting two of her children and then aborted her third because of the increased pressure from people around her. In an episode of "Girls," one of the characters tells her friend how stupid it is not to get an abortion when she needs one.I don't think these are isolated incidents. Women are convinced that doing the wrong thing is actually the right thing, either because it appears to be better than the alternatives available to them or because we live in a society that tells them it must be done. We also live in a society that thinks women are useless in the workforce as soon as they have children.  Many of the problems that keep women from gaining equal status in the workforce, women think they can fix through abortion, but the problem of devaluing mothers and offering inadequate financial support persists.  We can't get rid of the symptoms until we cure the disease.
Yes I fully agree with this. I hate that women are pressured to have abortion and I hate how the work force has been part of the cause for that
Alot of it comes from other women. I've seen them insult women who love their children and who's lives are perfectly fine, because they didn't abort thier child. Reasons being, THEY don't like the father and felt she could do better, or she's too young and not far enough in her career (Too young being under 32), and other very dumb things. I always thought there'd be some kind of girl code, that once a woman makes the CHOICE to keep her child, you as a fellow woman should never say that she should have aborted, out of respect for her and/ or her now born and now "fully human" \s child.
We were all non-sentient at one point.  While I may not have been sentient at one point, I am now, and I can tell you that there is no circumstance in which I would have preferred abortion. Would you want to be killed under any circumstance while healthy, but non-sentient?  Could any argument made by the pro-choice side make it all right for you personally to have been killed?  Would you have "taken one for the team" so your mom could make a few thousand more per year? Taking that into account, the pro-choice position is simply about being able to kill someone that we can be made to not care about. And what is worse is that this death is for nothing more than the simple improvement of someone else's standard of living. And that isn't even guaranteed.  If a woman is poor and has an abortion, will she cease being poor?  If she was off to university, does that mean she never gets to go back? And what does that mean about actually fixing those problems?  Why solve the problem of Down's Syndrome when you can just kill them in the womb?  Denmark is very proud of that "achievement".  Why bother changing our support for mothers and families when we've already given them the tools to take care of the problem themselves? There is no right that is not based on a right to life for every person ever conceived.  Otherwise, there's always a loophole to be used when it is inconvenient for those who have power, whether great or petty, to do what they wish at the expense of others.


I love my mother why would I want her to endure an unwanted pregnancy and childbirth, that is grotesque to me.
Why stop at "pregnancy and childbirth"? If you love your mother enough to let her end your life in the womb, do you love your mother enough to let her end your life outside the womb?
Because I would not be in her body.
As an infant and toddler, you'd still be "using" her body in the sense of taking her energy and effort to have her take care of you. Especially if she is breastfeeding you.
I think that we as pro lifers have a good case, but I believe it is important to acknowledge the breech in autonomy that can come from pregnancy. For the sake of feminism, and for the sake of good discussion. Someone is not going to be open to a new idea if they do not feel like the other side understands their argument. You are not forced to take care of a toddler, you can hand it to someone else. However, the same cannot be said of pregnancy.
Thanks for that comment . Neither side is going to agree with the other but we should try to see what we have common ground on and build from there .
I understand what you're saying. But by the same token, Pro-choicers should realize that we see no difference between a toddler and a fetus in terms of the personhood of humans. To that effect, to us, if you can abort a fetus in the third trimester, you should be able to "abort" an infant in the "fourth" trimester, so to speak. How then do you respond to someone that says "I would be perfectly fine if my mother had me selfishly killed so she didn't have to deal with me in her body"?
Yeah, I think it is important for pro choicers to acknowledge that the pro life side does not see a difference in terms of moral value between a toddler and a fetus. I think a lot of people on the pro choice side genuinely do not think pro life people view it that way, so it can be a difficult concept to really get them to believe. Both physical autonomy and the moral standing of the fetus are important aspects of the discussion. As you wanted the other person to understand where you are coming from with the moral standing of the fetus, so the other side will want you to understand the importance of physical autonomy. Perhaps it is like when a pro choice person talks about autonomy and they're like "its just a tumor, you wouldn't prevent someone from removing a tumor cause its their body" and we're like "no its not the same as a tumor it has moral significance." It is easy for them to argue that a person should have physical autonomy if it is a tumor. In a similar way, it is easy to argue for the right to life when its a toddler, separate from the pregnant person. I think both arguments ignore fundamental aspects of the issue, and so it does not lead to interesting or productive discussions. As far as a response to the person... I do not think there really is a great response. Like, it is just that person's values. Like, I would not have minded if I was never born because I would have never consciously existed, that does not make pro life convictions moot.

I am not American .
You would rather not be alive right now than to have set you mom back some? Not me I'm glad my birth mom chose to let me live. A lot of people don't want to be  parents that doesn't mean destroying their offspring is the best choice.  Why stop at birth? Why not euthanize the baby after it's born if you suddenly decide that "you don't want to be a parent" or "it deserves a better life than what you can provide so it's better to not have life at all"? What about not being born yet gives someone absolutely no rights to continue living/growing?
I'm sure it's easy to say that considering you weren't actually killed.
You didn't force anything on anyone.  How could you? You would have come about, except in the case of rape, due to your own parents' decision to engage in sex.
You wouldnt have even been alive to have a preference.
I won't get into the logic because I can see there are a whole lot of others on here about to do that. What I will say is that this reminds me of the bulldozer/building scenario. Imagine that you are overseeing a crew that is ready to bulldoze a building. You've been preparing all day. A stranger walks by and says, "excuse me but you can not bulldoze that building because there is a child in there". But you've already done your checks, went over safety code etc. You wonder, how can this be? But you realize that you must call off the bulldozer. You can not take the risk. And so I believe it is with your situation, you are morally obligated to vote NO because it is too risky. There are too many lives at risk. I can tell you that as a prolife woman and young mother who lives in a country that accepts abortion up until 9 months that you are on a slippery slope. I have always admired Ireland's 8th amendment and your very high maternal rate (one of the highest). My right as a woman should not extend to taking the life of another human being. You have to know for a fact that a preborn child is not a human person with value to vote anything but NO. And you don't. You can not take the chance with other people's lives. If you don't vote no abortion will become common placed, used as birth control, used to kill children with simple defects that can be fixed with surgery like cleft palate, extinguish children with down syndrome and sex selection abortions will eventually be the norm. They won't even tell us the sex of our babies in my country because they know it leads to increased abortion of females. But people just go to private clinics to find out. I hope something I've said resonates with you. I hope you vote no.
Thank you for your comment.
I think you will have to define sentience here or it will be impossible to discuss.
Can I just ask how you're defining "sentience" exactly?
My definition of sentience is subjective perceptual awareness. That's a pretty standard definition.
Gotcha. When you say "subjective awareness" can you just elaborate on what that means/what brain function it entails?
I would ask how do we test for sentience?
Does this "subjective perceptual awareness" require some sort of self-concept, or just the ability to process and respond to sensory stimuli?
Does sentient have an objective qualities in your definition?
I think it'd be best to start with your presumption: Why do sentient beings have intrinsic moral-value?
I think killing an innocent sentient person is wrong because it devalues and disrespects their interests in continuing to live and avoiding suffering. A fertilized egg/embryo/fetus, so long as it is not sentient, has no such interests. It is easy to see why we call killing (humans, that is) immoral in most cases, because it harms them. It interferes with their freedom to pursue their interests. They would prefer not to die. Fertilized eggs, embryos, or non-sentient fetuses have no interests or preferences. So, if killing (humans; your views on non-humans may be much different) is wrong because it harms the victim, it interferes with their freedom to pursue their interests, then why is abortion (pre-sentience) wrong, when there aren't any interests to be interfered with?
As someone in your situation it helped me understand the other side when I listened to Jonathan Haidt explain that there is another dimension of morality beyond harm.  Those that define murder in terms of a prohibition from God are not principally concerned with harm.  Rather murder is an affront to God, who created man in His image. If you don't believe in God that's fine; it may still help to understand those that do. I'm glad you're  here listening to the other perspective.  That is what convinced me to moderate my previously pro-choice position.  Best wishes to you.
What about a 20 week old fetus that clearly kicks, reacts to touch and has been delivered?
And why does the desire to continue to live and avoid suffering have any worth as an intrinsic moral value? (Bear with me =])
There are many humans either born with or who develop disabilities or that make them non-sentient in the traditional sense. We don't think it is ok to round up and kill those people. (Well, I mean, the Nazis thought it was ok, but I would hope most people are better than that now). There are also circumstances in which people may become temporarily non-sentient, such as when they are under anesthesia or in a coma. No one would support you if you argued that killing a person in a coma was ok because they are non-sentient. But, the non-sentience is temporary in the case of a coma or anesthesia, you say? Well, such is the case for an unborn child as well. But, I really think that the crux if the issue is that human life, no matter the age or stage or development, has inherent value just because it does. If not, then all manner  of atrocities can be justified. So this fact, although it does inconveniently eliminate the possibility of abortion being a moral choice, is the very reason we have any understanding of human rights at all, and should be protected at all costs.
Is sentience all or nothing? I'd argue it's more of a spectrum.
If the 8th amendment is repealed it will allow abortions up to the 12 week. If what determines your stance on abortion is how developed the fetus is, here is a link to how developed the fetus is at week 10 https://www.babycenter.com/6_your-pregnancy-10-weeks_1099.bc
The student then stated his belief that sentience is what determines a human being’s moral value. According to LifeSiteNews: When Shapiro asked the student if adult life has “intrinsic value,” the student replied that “sentience” is what gives life moral value, not the fact of “being human alone.”… “So when you’re asleep, can I stab you?”Shapiro asked. “I’m still considered sentient when I’m asleep,” the student answered, uncertainly. “OK, if you are in a coma from which you may awake, can I stab you?” Shapiro retorted. The student said “no,” adding that a person in a coma still has “potential sentience.” Shapiro then pounced. “I agree it is potential sentience. And you know what else is potential sentience? Being a fetus!”
I think that is a false analogy though. A more proper question would be: "if someone is in a lasting coma, and continually draws resources at another person's expense in order to continue living in this non-sentient state, then would it be morally acceptable to end this person's life?" I would say yes. I would object to having a stranger or otherwise uncredentialed person kill that person, I would object to killing them by stabbing, and I would object to killing that person without first informing/conversing with people who were the closest to them, but otherwise I perceive no moral qualms.
If we are comparing the coma patient drawing resources at anothers expense to a mother and fetus then that analogy isnt complete. To be acurate, the "other" you refer to would have to be the cause of the persons coma then ordered to be responsible to the care and needs of the coma patient. Then "other" not wanting that responsibilty kills the coma patient.
Actually this would be false since the human fetus/preborn child will not be there everlasting. A more proper analogy might be "If we know that the coma patient will wake up in 6-9 months would it be morally acceptable to pull the plug?" I would say, NO way!
Well said.
Are we comparing the coma patient to a mother and fetus when you use "draw resources at anothers expense"? Or are we just talking about coma patients?
What if someone voluntarily attached themselves to said coma patient? Does that change things?
Millions of people feel close to all unborn children and would not want for them to be killed. Does that count?
Consider that newborns also continually draw nutrients from their mothers (via breast milk), and--in most cases--require far more work and dedication to take care of than when they were in the womb. I say this as a father of two, but I can attest that my wife certainly feels the same way after months of sleepless nights dealing with a crying infant! As others have pointed out as well, there are numerous other differences with the "coma" example, such as the one in power being directly responsible for the coma patient, and the fact that the coma patient will "wake up" in a few months.
I can attest as a mother of three that pregnancy was more like a treat when compared with actually caring for a born infant.
I second this. Two boys outside the womb is infinitely more taxing than 2 boys inside the womb. Also a lot more urine. And farting. And penis jokes.
What counts as a "lasting coma"? Is someone who's in a coma for one day somehow more of a person than someone who's in a coma for one month?
If you'll excuse my saying so, I don't think you've fixed the analogy there.  Somebody in a lasting coma still is a somebody -- there still is a sentient being who has existed to whom you are referring.
You could say the same about a dead person. They were sentient and existed at one point.
Completely different state of existance. You cant recover from death.
But you can "recover" from being a fetus.
I agree.
Simply put, all human beings deserve human rights, primary among them, the right to life. Unborn children are no exception.
My understanding is that human rights ensure that persons can freely pursue their interests so long as they impinge on no one else's pursuit of their interests. There are no interests to protect if the person is not sentient or if the entity is not a person in the first place. Non-sentient fetuses are not humans just as fertilized eggs are not humans. Do both have the potential to become functional humans? Sure, but they are not human beings in those states.
Biologically, a fertilized (human) egg IS a human being though. The sidebar has a few links detailing why, but here are a few more if you'd like to get more research in: https://www.princeton.edu/~prolife/articles/embryoquotes2.html http://clinicquotes.com/list-of-quotes-from-medical-textbooksscientists-proving-life-begins-at-conception/ http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=4857703 http://www.justfactsdaily.com/the-science-of-abortion-when-does-life-begin/ It's a human being at the earliest stage of life, not just a potential human. To make sure we're on the same page, it might be best if you define "life." Some pro-choice arguments concede that a zygote is a human life, but argue that that doesn't make it a human person.
Props to you for being open-minded and wanting to continue the debate. Upvoted for the discussion. To you personally, does current legal terminology define what a "person" is or do you define it that way because that is what you truly feel/believe in your heart and mind? I ask because from country to country and by each time-period the term "person/human" has changed. Slaves didn't get the rights because they were not seen as "people". The Nazis didn't have a problem committing mass murder because to them the Jews and other "sub-human races" were not people and didn't have a right to continue existing. I'm old enough now to make my own decisions based on what I believe, not on law all of the time. You probably are too.
They are human beings, though. They are the exact same organism as any other human, just at a younger stage of life. Human beings have  inherent rights. There is no reason to arbitrarily limit rights to those you consider “functional”. It is like saying that babies aren’t functional because they have no self recognition. Of course they don’t, they aren’t meant to at that age.  That is discrimination.
https://youtu.be/RDmwPGrZkYs
Are you ok with killing a 23 week premature baby? According to this article https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/when-does-consciousness-arise/ babies arent properly consciousness until bout 24-28 week of gestation.
The accounts of speakers from the Citizens assembly are on line if you are interested.
The Abortion issue doesn't just come down to lives being saved or lost, this has been a Public Relations war that the Pro-choice movement has been winning.  They have successfully dehumanized unborn babies by reducing them to inhuman blobs as "fetuses".   They are trying to make abortions be considered "normal".   Time to take back some power.Everyone hates Nazis!  What did Nazis support?  Population control of undesired groups.   Eugenics.   Aborting babies just because they have Downs Syndrome is VERY Nazi like.   So, hey, they are Nazis.
I get what you're saying, and you're not wrong.  That being said, the goal is to enact change, not win rhetorical points.  For that, we need a consistent and growing majority, which I think means bringing fence sitters to our side. We're already painted as extremists by pro choicers; we need to present our case as well reasoned and compassionate to counter that and grab the middle. The focus is children, not ego.  Just my two cents.
With all due respect, this is a bad idea. To the point where I'm not sure you're serious. What we need to do is make sure everyone knows what a fetus is. The other side can call the unborn a fetus all they want, because that's factually accurate. They ARE fetuses. The problem is that people don't understand that fetus is a stage of development just like infant, toddler, ect. Rather than be afraid of the word fetus, the pro-life movement needs to point out that we're talking about a HUMAN fetus, not just ANY fetus. Every mammal was a fetus at some point, just like every mammal can grow to maturity. The difference is in the DNA, not the stage of development. Calling people Nazis just pisses them off, unless they self-identify as Nazis and then there's really nothing to talk about. So yes, while you're technically correct in saying the pro-choice side has very Nazi-like tendencies in how they treat certain people, it's not going to help us win the culture war because calling people Nazi is basically just what people do now.
They do it to us
Do you want to be them or better than them?
It's effective. They've painted us as women haters Do you want to win or lose
And painting us as woman-haters has done what to bring us to their side? Are we more or less likely to listen to them and change our mind? Answer: Nothing, and less. So why would we use the same tactics if we want to bring them to our side?
Do you truely think they will come over to our side. We need to openly tell our kids that what they're doing is comparable to Nazism and Slavery, we need to get that into the kids early so that this is the last generation pro choice villains have a say Don't kid yourself that they're waiting to come over, they're not
...Yes. Wait, are you telling me you've never seen a pro-choicer switch sides? I mean if you're routinely calling them Nazi's I can kinda understand why you've never seen or been the cause of a conversion.
I was a pro-choicer who switched sides...it took my GF not aborting my kid to do it tho You're crazy if you think the womens march people will switch sides
Different people switch for different reasons. But calling pro-choicers Nazi's is like the most surefire way to make them not want to listen to any of our other points. I know pro-lifers that attended the women's march. These people are not as unreachable as you seem to think.
I'm pretty sure that the goal of painting prolifers as women-haters is not to convert us but to incite neutral/apathetic people against us. It's to make the next generation who haven't formed an opinion yet ask "do I want to believe what women-haters believe?" It's not logical, but it works.
So it sounds like you and Trumpologist believe that current adult pro-choicers are not reachable, but rather all our tactics should be aimed at reaching the younger gen/kids, is that right?
I can't speak for Trumpologist, but no I was talking about the prochoice strategy. When they say "people are prolife because they hate women" it's obviously not to convert us. It's to reach people who don't have an opinion yet but don't want to believe what those women-hating fundamentalists believe. It's empty rhetoric, not logic, but sadly it does work. I do think there is a lot of value is in reaching the next generation since that's how social change usually works, barring something drastic like war. The youth develop different beliefs from the previous generation and eventually replace them. But for sure I'm not saying that we should treat prochoicers as a lost cause.
By that logic we should be okay with murdering babies because they do it.
This is true, but it's a quick way for the accused to disregard further points. Comparisons to Hitler are generally seen as emotional and over-reactionary (see also "Godwin's law"), even if a decent case can be made for it in some situations (like with abortion utilized as a tool for eugenics). I'm not sure what the best solution is, though. Maybe raising the comparison to how the situation is similar to the Nazis without actually calling your opponent a Nazi?
May I suggest just never bringing up Nazi's? Unless you're basically good friends with the person and you know they'll be willing to listen; otherwise people just shut down.
I think it is worth mentioning that the way abortion is used, in the case of certain conditions like Down's Syndrome, is very close to what the Nazis were attempting with their Aktion T4 program which was for the sterilization and euthanasia of people who were both mentally ill and intellectually handicapped. Still, being a Nazi also has a host of other programs and characteristics associated with it that, as a historian, it would bother me as much to call pro-choicers Nazis as it does when the Left uses their wide brush to paint every right wing action as "Nazi" or "fascist". I think I would confine our points to making comparisons to specific programs of the Third Reich, rather than calling them something that they really aren't.
No. You are fine making the logical connection but calling them Nazi's would be as foolish as calling Trump a Nazi.
Unless Trump also supports the mass murder of millions of innocents babies, he's nowhere near prochoice levels of Nazi-ness.
I don't think that people who want to keep up national monuments are all Nazis.  They don't identify as Nazis, but they are being called Nazis.   Turn about is fair play and if the shoe fits, they can wear it.
Hold the phone. Wasn't it already established that Nazis are those who don't embrace left-wing ideologies?
If it works, I'm for it. I might phrase it more like what you are doing is no different than the nazis in such and such a way, though.


Planned Parenthood won't give the Democrats campaign funds if they don't kill all pro life bills.
Planned Parenthood gets money from taxpayer Planned Parenthood gives money to Democrats Democrats ignore the will of the taxpayer It’s highway robbery.
Okay, want to be clear when I am arguing with pro-choice people, there ARE exceptions for extreme medical cases right?   Otherwise, I don't know if I support the ban.  I'm not talking about Downs Syndrome, but there are medical conditions that would make it crueler to continue a pregnancy.
Actually, the only moral and ethical course of action would be to treat the disease. The baby might perish but the intent is to save mother and child. Abortion is the intentional killing of an unborn human and is always, always, always wrong.
I guess you haven't heard of Trisomy 18 and 13 genetic disorders.   You aren't going to fix them, the baby is always going to die at a young age and these are often painful defects. Your extremist views are part of why elective abortions are legal right now.  There are exceptions for everything in life, including death.
Lol, respecting life is "extremist"? Got news for you: there is no such thing as "prolife with exceptions." You are either prolife or not. It doesn't matter if the child will die soon after being born, it's barbaric and evil to snuff his life out in the womb (just like it would be evil to kill him outside of the womb). Abortion is always wrong, period.


This is the best tl;dr I could make, original reduced by 78%. (I'm a bot) Extended Summary | FAQ | Feedback | Top keywords: abortion#1 Irish#2 amendment#3 eighth#4 Varadkar#5
Ireland really imploded on itself the moment it stopped fighting an external enemy and gave up its faith.
They literally look like a bunch of brainwashed followers to me. I wonder, do they even know what they are fighting for? Seriously, the other side knows how to pay off and push their rhetoric. And it seems like people are willing to just suck it up like a vacuum without questions. I guess if you make your position look popular enough then humans naturally flock to the crowd. Like sheep.
Nasty evil people.
Can anyone make out the sign in the background. It's written in black on a white background. I thought it said the typical "Keep your rosaries off our ovaries" but I see the word biology in there. Is it possible that it is actually a prolife sign?
It seems to  say "keep your theology of our biology".
Oh. That makes sense. Ugh. Thought it might have said keep your opinion out of prenatal biology. Lol. Wishful thinking. Or keep your prejudices out of human biology.
It’s settled then. Next March for life I carry a sign that says, keep your opinionology out of prenatal biology.
Not bad.

And just as it is constitutionally incorrect to moderate someone's speech that does not explicitly call for violence or create violence; so too is it constitutionally incorrect to force the use of language or advocacy for something which you do not agree with.
That craters state laws that prevent doctors from suggesting abortion services and tangentially related services.
A pregnancy center and it's doctors wouldn't advocate for abortion anyway. Not to mention the fact that forcing someone to advocate for something they don't agree with is mandated speech which is of course illegal.
They’re not advocating for abortion if you read the briefs. Also, doctors do it all the time otherwise states wouldn’t have passed gag order laws.
You seem to be missing something or didn't read the article. Forcing a Pro-life pregnancy center to display abortion options = against freedom of speech Not all doctors are the same. The doctors in this case work at a Pro-life location. Since everyone can choose their workplace, the logic follows that those doctors are pro-life and would NOT advocate for abortion. If "doctors do it all the time" the only thing stopping them is gag laws. Then the workaround is have someone on your team give them the abortion info not the doctor. And saying "you didn't hear it from me". And gag laws are also against freedom of speech. So no I don't like those either.
Per the briefs, these are “crisis pregnancy centers” and not “pro life centers.” Also, what the FACT ACT does is police the inconsistencies and misrepresentations  that CPCs regularly engage in. This is like saying companies have a freedom of speech to lie about their products. The notices do not advocate for abortion. If I put up a notice that a restaurant has a license to serve alcohol, is that advocating for alcohol consumption?  Simply putting a notice does not equate to advocating. well also the work around is to declare them unconstitutional as an abrogation of speech.
Compelled speech is unconstitutional and Orwellian.

Wow, she is not afraid to out herself with unpopular opinions in her field. I'm glad she is there as a counter point to the insanity that she is surrounded with! You just know she has gotten some nasty looks tonight.
I don't use this word a lot but she is "brave", actually brave.
When I saw this it brought an instant smile to my face. It's a beautiful dress with a beautiful message :)
She’s awesome
Awesome! They say almost any PR is a good thing.
Kind of ironic for her to be wearing this since she's a Scientologist...
I don't know enough about scientology, why does that make her wearing a dress with a pro-life message ironic?
Many ex-members have claimed that women (at least in certain bases) are forced into having abortions whenever they get pregnant. I'd say that isn't very pro-life of them. Edit: Wikibot preview below isn't helpful, the claims are further down in the article so you'll have to visit the page to see them.
That sounds horrible. One of the many problems with Scientology, it would seem. Regardless, I think we can still be thankful for her spreading the pro-life message. If she's pro-life, I doubt she would support her fellow Scientologists doing that (just like I don't support fellow Catholics getting or forcing abortions).
The difference with that though is that Catholics that get or force abortions are directly going against the teachings of their religion. Scientology itself doesn't condemn abortion or forced abortion (they claim not to force abortions, but several witnesses have said they do). I mean, if Villa wasn't as outspoken about Scientology as she is and she didn't have a history of publicity stunts (she didn't become a Trump supporter until after the election, before that she was a Sanders supporter), I'd maybe think she was genuine, but this comes across as fake to me.
That's a pretty fair assessment I think. Still, it's refreshing to see a contrary voice in Hollywood, as hollow as it may be. Breaks up the normal echo chambers perhaps.
Scientology and abortion The intersection of Scientology and abortion has a controversial history which began with Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard's discussion of abortion in his 1950 book Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health. Hubbard wrote in Dianetics that abortion and attempts at abortion could cause trauma to the fetus and to the mother in both spiritual and physical ways. Scientologists came to believe that attempted abortions could cause traumatic experiences felt by the fetus, which would later be remembered as memories referred to in Scientology as "engrams". In the Scientology technique called Auditing, Scientologists are frequently queried regarding their sexual feelings and behaviors. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source | ^Donate ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scientology_and_abortion HelperBot v1.1 /r/HelperBot_ I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 143120
Just makes it even braver for her to make this public statement, given how scientology treats people that piss them off...
“The zygote and early embryo are living human organisms.” Keith L. Moore & T.V.N. Persaud Before We Are Born – Essentials of Embryology and Birth Defects (W.B. Saunders Company, 1998. Fifth edition.) Page 500 “[All] organisms, however large and complex they might be as full grown, begin life as a single cell. This is true for the human being, for instance, who begins life as a fertilized ovum.” Dr. Morris Krieger “The Human Reproductive System” p 88 (1969) Sterling Pub. Co “The development of a human being begins with fertilization, a process by which two highly specialized cells, the spermatozoon from the male and the oocyte from the female, unite to give rise to a new organism, the zygote.” Langman, Jan. Medical Embryology. 3rd edition. Baltimore: Williams and Wilkins, 1975, p. 3 “Fertilization is an important landmark because, under ordinary circumstances, a new, genetically distinct human organism is thereby formed… Fertilization is the procession of events that begins when a spermatozoon makes contact with a secondary oocyte or its investments… The zygote … is a unicellular embryo..” From Human Embryology & Teratology, Ronan R. O’Rahilly, Fabiola Muller, (New York: Wiley-Liss, 1996), 5-55. Still ironic?
Im glad someone sees through this charade
Yeah, I'm not inclined to believe anything she says or does after what I've heard about her.
Can you separate an argument or opinion from a person?
I meant that I am not inclined to believe that anything she says or does is genuine.
Just think of her like those employees who hold up the Kentucky fried chicken signs up on the street. They may be a terrible person but the sign still got you thinking about chicken. I think prochoicers only move is to keep hiding the topic. The more it’s kept in the spotlight the better for us.
She is threatening to run for congress.  So this is more like someone applying for a job at a restaurant, swearing up and down that they're great at frying chicken, and then when you hire them, it turns out they're a vegan and refuse to cook anything with animal products in it.  Or as it would actually be: claiming to be pro-life then voting for abortion. This woman is calculatedly trying to use Christians, people who are pro-Trump, and pro-lifers.  When a person has questionable motives, maybe it's not a good idea to blindly promote them because they said one good thing.
Who's promoting the person? It's the message that she was wearing that I am promoting.
Oh get over yourself. We get a pro life celebrity putting it out in the public, and you moan about Scientology. I don't care what most of them believe, this Scientologist has been outspoken against the norms of celebrity America, and we should be glad that she is brave enough to put this message out there. If you actually care about abortion, then stop being a petty fool.
Top level Scientology women were often pressured or forced into having abortions. And they're not going against the teachings of their religion by doing that. This comes across to me as a publicity stunt. Villa didn't become a Trump supporter until after the election (she supported Sanders before) and she got to attract attention with the Trump dress. I think she's manipulating the pro-life movement here. I'd like to believe she's genuine, but given her history I don't.
But you think Trump is a trustworthy stand-up guy?
No...pretty sure I've never said that.

I'm sorry, but I can't help but think that that deal is about to eat that baby.
seal?
Right to Life has had this cartoon for a while. I remember it from when I was a kid.
Except perhaps for some rare few, pro-choicers probably have nothing against aborting animal fetuses either. In fact abortions are induced in animals all the time in animal husbandry, animal farming, or even when pets are sprayed/have surgery so as not to reproduce anymore.
??? The cartoon is meant to show that affection often seen towards animals can be lacking when it comes to baby humans. You're reading too much into it, making assumptions if you believe it is meant to equate animal abortion to human abortion.
That's literally what the cartoon is doing. You even say as much when you say this: You're imagining that there's an affection people have for animal fetuses which doesn't exist, and that's why I'm pointing out the cartoon doesn't work. (Edited for better context)
Except the cartoon shows a full grown animal. You're ridiculous.
Pro-choicers typically don't advocate for the killing of a full-grown human though, do they? The connection being made by the cartoon is clearly that of, "You say baby animals should be saved, but what about the baby humans? Shouldn't they be saved too?" The problem with this cartoon is that pro-choicers don't actually think that induced animal abortion is a problem. You can't point out a double-standard where there isn't one to point out.
If you cannot see that a fetus is a baby human, you need some biology lessons.
... I do think a fetus is a baby human. You're not taking the time to read my posts. Here, I'll change my terminology so you can hopefully understand. I'm saying that pro-choicers will kill animal babies (in the womb) or human babies (in the womb), and they do both. This cartoon is trying to point out a improper focus of values that doesn't exist.
This cartoon is showing that affection towards animals can at times be lacking towards humans, as I've said before. You're making incorrect claims. If you believe the issue at hand is induced abortions in animals, perhaps you have autism to a degree.
In the case of unborn animals though, this affection doesn't exist. What I'm trying to tell you is that not only is unborn human life not as valued as born human life, the same goes for animals, so the argument the cartoon is making isn't effective. No! Obviously the issue at hand is the abortion of human children! And the autism accusation is inappropriate, especially here of all places.
Let me tell you why you've been ridiculous since the very beginning. Animals and humans are not the same! Abortion is wrong in humans. But can be acceptable in animals, for reasons that would not be acceptable to abort humans. Animals and humans are different. And if you're implying that there is something bad about autism, that is your own issue. I wanted to let you know that you have trouble reading common ideas. Perhaps you are unaware of that.

That's not what autism is...
Inability to interpret common human communication is a symptom of autism.

Your post history, and your claims that this is about induced animal abortion, (it obviously isn't) makes it look very likely that you are a troll.
LOL, no, I'm not a troll. I'm sorry you think that. I am very much in favor of the pro-life cause. What I'm not in favor of are bad arguments like these which will not help us succeed in saving millions of lives.
Says the person who argues about a cartoon seal.
Hello Pot. I'm Kettle.
Such a useful contribution to the conversation. (sarcasm)



I was watching an interview that someone had posted on here earlier.I noticed that the prolife defender got caught easily on two questions that were designed to sidetrack the debate.First, why aren't we taking care of born and living breathing babies instead of caring for the preborn?Second, contraception. Would you be ok with the morning after pill taken by a rape victim?Here's my advice for the first accusation, never allow them to make a distinction between a preborn and born child. Respond by saying, if I was a paediatric heart surgeon would you criticise me for saving a 1 year old child's life but not caring for every other older child or that child throughout their whole life? How is this scenario any different?Here is what I would say to the second, would you be o.k. with banning all elective abortions? Or, I may be personally against contraception but I am not in the business of banning it. Or, some prolifers use the argument that since plan B's primary mechanism of function is to stop ovulation (and not actually kill the embryo) than it would be ok. Other's say that this would be considered a case of defending oneself against the sperm the perpetrator left in their body.But again, sometimes the best thing is to concede that if they agree to ban all elective abortion you would be ok with the exceptions (for now anyway).How would you all respond?
As far as we can tell, the morning after pill doesn't actually cause early embryonic death.
The why don't you help born children argument isn't about not actively helping, like with a surgeon, it's about voting against lots of welfare programs that help children.  So while the prolife people don't necessarily need to actively support those things, they should at least passively be for them.
Does that mean everyone who supports laws against murder should also support all other laws that help needy adults? I mean I’m all for using the power of the state to help the needy (when it does more good than harm) but I don’t see how it’s the same issue at all. I can see that a person can be entirely logically consistent and believe that killing people should be illegal but not automatically believe the state should step in to look after all the people that didn’t get killed.
This is so try’s. I’ve also noticed that with too many people who make that argument any answer I give isn’t good enough, I don’t donate enough, to the “right” groups, or whatever
Does that mean everyone who supports laws against murder should also support all other laws that help needy adults? I mean I’m all for using the power of the state to help the needy (when it does more good than harm) but I don’t see how it’s the same issue at all. I can see that a person can be entirely logically consistent and believe that killing people should be illegal but not automatically believe the state should step in to look after all the people that didn’t get killed.
Huh? That's not what the argument was.
You're misrepresenting the argument. It isn't, why don't you devote more resources to helping to children in need, its generally more along the lines of why are many prolife people against programs that would benefit needy children.
I see what you are saying. But I was specifically talking about an interview someone posted earlier on this sub. She was calling her out on her work in a pregnancy centre that only helps the children until 12 years old. To your question I would say, I'm not so not really applicable.

I love me some dank pro-life memes. This is too accurate. People love to talk about the science of it, and then throw the science out when it doesn't fit. Although the new thing now is to say that they agree it's human, but it doesn't have any rights so we can kill it.
Does this remind anyone else of how slaves were treated?
Very much so.
And Jews
Yup. This is what I always use to make a point because it's especially close to me. I'm Jewish and have family I never got to meet because they died in the holocaust. It never has been, and never will be ok to choose which humans have rights and which don't.
You know this would probably be a more intelligent argument because it doesn't involve denying basic scientific facts, but I find 99% of my arguments are actually just about the scientific facts.
And I am more willing to engage pro-choicers who do not deny the science of it. I don't agree with them, but I don't disregard them as complete imbeciles. Im just very against the idea that certain human beings should have more rights. It hasn't ended well in the past.
Yeah bit it still logically breaks down after that. When does it get rights? X, y, z arbitrary condition. OK then what about these people of all different ages that are missing X, y, or z? Do they not have rights? Ultimately, most of these pro-choicers don't yet realize that they actually follow Louis C.K.: life just isn't that important. They are absolutely not against killing people in the same way that pro-lifers are. In many ways the age of the human is a red herring.
I think a person can have a consistent position, but you're right -- the vast majority don't even seem to take the few seconds required to see how their stance would apply outside the abortion debate.
I'd say it get rights when it gets it's citizenship, which is conferred at birth. That seems like pretty simple way to do it.
Two issues with that. First, I'm not sure a lot of people in this country would be entirely pleased with tying the right to life to citizenship. Second, birth citizenship is a pure legal construct. How could that possibly serve as the starting point to an enduring, rational, universal human right to life? It's tantamount to saying, "the law of the land is absolute" but that ultimately just lands you into pure relativism. Oh well I guess that country only grants citizenship to 3 year olds, so them infants are fucked.
I didn't necessarily mean that the right would tied to citizenship per se, moreso that right now, in most most (all?) countries, citizenship is conferred upon birth. Personhood could work the same way. You become a person with rights when you are born. Rights are social/legal construct as well.
The whole premise of the Enlightenment, on which all modern western governments are based, is that there are inalienable human rights that transcend the social contract and cannot be taken away by any human authority.
So do we have the right to kill non-citizens...? I'm so confused.
It's so interesting arguing with pro-choice atheists (as a pro-life Catholic) and having them use arguments that sound religious. For example, "Personhood is something bigger than biological humanity, and that happens some time during development," or "I believe that there's something more to people than biology." Sounds an awful lot like you're talking about a soul...and you thought I was the religious one. Shouldn't laws be based on more than your personal beliefs?
Let this be the hour that we draw swords together!

I've actually never heard a fellow atheist use this argument. All atheists I know have morals. To argue against morality entirely would be self-defeating. Rather, they try to argue that the science is obscure when it comes to "human beings." I'm not frustrated at being lumped with other atheists (this rarely happens); I'm frustrated that other atheists can be so hypocritical.

Oh no, you're totally fine!
Y’all have morals only because you borrow from the Christian worldview.
Nope. I fully reject many Christian ideas of morality, such as the subjugation of women to the "headship" of men or that marriage is for weak people to give two examples. When it comes to being pro-life, in fact I think the more secular position to take is a pro-life position (no abortions after there a chance they can survive outside of the womb, except when the life of the mother is endangered). For the religious person you're sending that aborted child straight to heaven. It could be argued that that is pretty humane. But for us pro-life atheists, you're destroying that one chance they had at any life whatsoever, a far more reprehensible idea than sending them to someplace better than here.
You fully reject many ideas of Christian morality. Why do you still believe in some? If you’re being consistent you need to reject all of Christian morality.
I don't reject many ideas of Christian morality because they are Christian, but rather by individually evaluating them. Christianity has gotten some things right, and it would be silly for me to oppose those things just because of the packaging.
You believe in some ideas of the Satanic Temple right? Here are some you might agree with: -act with compassion towards all creatures within reason -if you cause harm, do all you can to rectify it Do you agree with those? If yes, then you have to accept them all to be consistent. If you can’t accept them all you must reject them all. That’s the logic you used.
U/imperiochica logic: A meme that applies to some Atheists, but does not apply to all, is such a clever meme! But a cartoon that applies to some pro choice animal lovers, but not all, is such terrible logic. Imperiochica is trying to argue that a seal cartoon is not valid because born humans are not the same as unborn animals. While ignoring the fact that the cartoon is about affection being placed towards animals does not always go towards humans. https://www.reddit.com/r/prolife/comments/7tmnf1/right_to_life/dtdxltv/ Sad.

Courtesy of CatholicVote. I thought this was clever and effective.
Yes they do
I agree with the tweet, but their choice of words is ironic. Source: https://catholicvote.org/discover/immigration/
Yeah, I've got my own views on their immigration stances, but I thought the meme managed to land a solid hit even while sidestepping that debate.

That’s what they said about slaves, African Americans and Jews. Your subjective opinion should have no place in public policy or defining human rights.
Who is “they”? And american slaves were considered persons.  Read the Constitution.
The many people who justified their actions by subjectively deciding that these people were not people. The only reasons slaves were considered people under law was because it was the only way to ensure they were still bound to the law. But they were treated as property and many viewed them as non persons or less than human.
OK but just because many people who justified their actions by subjectively deciding that these people were not people might have also said that the unborn are not persons doesn’t make my proposition false. Slaves were still persons under the law, regardless of whatever theory you have as to the reasons why.
It's not my theory. Go read up on it. No, that is not what makes your proposition false. Nor, is it what made their proposition false. The point is that subjective opinions on who is a person and who is not should have no role in legislation.
I didn’t say it was “your theory.”  I said it was the theory you have, and if the theory you have originated with someone else, that’s all well and good.  Whoever came up with the theory doesn’t matter, because it doesn’t change the fact that slaves were persons under the law. The law defines terms all the time.  If the law could not define terms our legal system could not function and we’d have no meaningful legislation of which to speak.  That is why we look to the law to define “person” within the meaning of the law. And before you call the definition of person as excluding the unborn as “subjective,” you need to do a more meaningful critique of Justice Blackmun’s opinion in Roe v. Wade.  You will find that his opinion was quite objective - he even requested counsel to provide legal authority from other cases establishing that the unborn were persons, but none could be found.  He also did an analysis on how the term “person” was used in the Constitution, and it was clear that it’s use referred to those who had been born. If you still think Justice Blackmun’s opinion was subjective, let me ask you this - should we be relying on your subjective opinion on who is a person and who is not for purposes of enacting legislation?
But who cares? I never said it did. I don't give a rats ass about the law. I am not even from the US. There are many countries that view preborn children as persons under law. I was referring to the philosophical term. And by the way, the law can be wrong and is in the case with the US. No, we should rely on the concept of human rights. That is the only objective measure that protects us all and the one commonality we share. We are all living human organisms.
“it” what? well this post is about the law.  the title of this post includes the phrase “they deserve amnesty” and amnesty refers to a pardoning of offenses.  the abortion debate itself concerns the legal status of the unborn and the legal rights of pregnant women.  if you don’t give a rats ass about the law then you’re commenting in the wrong post. In your opinion, does a pregnant woman have a human right to abortion?
What someone deserves and what the law gives them are not synonymous things. The abortion debate is about truth. As with most debates. The only role the law plays is that it ought to reflect justice and truth. When I say I don't give a rats ass about the law I am saying a few things. Laws vary from country to country and do not always reflect justice or truth. Whether or not someone deserves amnesty is about the truth of the matter not about what the law decides. If you lived in a country that protected preborn children's rights as persons would you agree that these children ought to be provided with amnesty and that abortion ought to be outlawed? Or would you still hold your prochoice stance?

Why not?
it’s because “person” is a legal term, and at the time the Constitution was drafted, and at the time the 14th amendment was ratified, the word “person” excluded the unborn.
Good to know, good to know. Have you heard of the three-fifths compromise? Yes, Roe vs Wade was based off of the fourteenth amendment of the constitution. There is no mention of abortion in that amendment. Roe vs Wade argued that because the 14th amendment protected the right to privacy, a woman should be allowed to have an abortion. Also, the constitution specifically protected slavery. Do your research:
I have heard of the three fifths compromise, which reads as Even the three fifths compromise refers to slaves as “Persons” Roe vs Wade held that the unborn were not persons within the meaning of the 14th Amendment. And the constitution protecting slavery doesn’t imply that slaves were not persons.  Even your own quote from Dred Scott refers to slaves as “persons.” In short, nothing you wrote casts into doubt the proposition that “persons” excludes the unborn.  You actually helped my argument.
Please. I am not stupid. Do you think if someone forced you to work for them, against your will, punished you if you disobeyed them, you are a "person":re: with rights as a /person/ should Have? Or are you just using the term "person" at face value?
Yes, today we refer to those persons as “prisoners” or “inmates.” You need to read the 13th amendment and there you will find an exception to the ban against involuntary servitude for persons “duly convicted.” As of right now, I don’t think you are stupid.  Just ill-informed.
So slavery was justified then? We aren't talking about inmates or prisoners. What's your point? You're using a fallacy called the red herring here. It's not that effective. Also, pay attention to rule 2.
Slavery, as banished by the 13th amendment, was not justified. My point was to answer your question. I always do.
So here's what just happened: You said the preborn weren't persons,  and here is your initial quote: I pointed out that your argument, pointing out that the 3/5 compromise was also a legal term, "3/5 of a person" justified other atrocities in human history. You then argued that because the document mentions them as persons, they had human rights. I asked if you were taking the comment at face value, and if slavery was justified by that point. You then went on an irrelevant spout about prisoners and inmates, which had nothing to do with my question. Really? Because it seems like youre talking to make a point, not to listen or understand what I'm telling you. I apologise if I'm wrong, but it did come off that way.


I think that this argument does not bring the pro-choice and pro-life sides closer to any mutual understanding. Pro-choice people manage, by and large, not to kill each other.  Therefore there is something between abortion and lawless freewheel murdering, even if it seems to you there would be nothing between them. Do you see what I mean?
Oh, I don't think she means if you are prochoice you are more likely to commit murder. I think she is saying that it is a slippery slope and will eventually lead to the weak and vulnerable losing more and more rights as time persists.
But the Western world, which is generally very permissive of abortion, has some of the strongest rights for the weak and vulnerable.
If abortions are taking place then no, the weak and vulnerable are not being protected.
The western world is more and more promoting infanticide, euthanasia and designer babies. Mothers are criticised for not aborting children with special needs and abortion is sold to poor communities. Iceland and Sweden are eradicating down syndrome by  killing babies who are diagnosed with the genetic condition. I think her prediction is on it's way to becoming true. The decision in Roe vs. Wade was only made in 1973. Not super long ago.
Right, and it also represents that safest and least violent time that the world has ever seen. That's my point, there is no connection to permitting abortion and permitting other types of violence.
Um, I don't agree. Perhaps if you aren't counting abortion and the things I've mentioned above as violence. I'd like to see a proper study that includes abortion and euthanasia as violent acts included in the numbers.
If you look at urban areas, urban areas have very high abortion rates and high crime rates as well. And Mother Theresa is talking about destroying peace, no? Not everyone who commits one peace destroying act will commit another. Abortion, in itself, destroys peace.
But she isn't making a point about abortion itself though, it sounds like she's making about what other things abortion will lead to. Based on what she is saying you would think that places that are permissive of abortion would have other problems, but generally you see the opposite, or no correlation.
In the United States, areas of higher crime and higher abortion rates go hand in hand. She said abortion destroys peace and removes the fundamental right to protect ones life.
What she meant to convey is anybody's guess.  I think that what her words convey is a stronger statement than what you paraphrased. However, even for your weaker statement -- I'm not sure you can generally make the case that pro-choice people are anti-weak-and-vulnerable outside of fetuses.  Do you think you can? We disagree about fetal personhood and/or bodily autonomy.  I think that's enough without saying that I'm on the path to a government eugenics program or that you're on the path to Gilead.
Yes, which is why I started off by saying I think... I don't think I can make that statement without a proper study. I might be able to state an opinion based on anecdotal evidence but that wouldn't really be much to go on. I think the point is that we can't make that statement about an individual. That's much to complex and involves many other factors. However, I think she is saying that we will see that general trend (of disregard for the weak, vulnerable and "less than perfect" people of society) develop in the larger community/society. And I also think that there is already evidence to support this hypothesis. I mentioned a few in my response to another on here.
And that's a rough opinion to start off a disagreement with, because I'm sitting here not feeling particularly murderous.  That's the extent of my point, really. I'm also sitting here working pretty hard (I mean, not this moment, I'm on Reddit) to help the vulnerable and less-than-perfect people of society. This is what I found among your responses: First off I'd like to say that you can't use an increased prevalence of abortion as evidence that abortion will lead to a "general trend."  Yes, abortion will lead to abortion.  That's circular.  So let's take your points in order: Infanticide: I'm not aware of increased infanticide in the Western World.  In fact, childhood mortality has decreased significantly.  There's only one example in the Western World that I can think of in recent years where there was a large amount of callousness to vulnerable children, and that is the Republican readiness to let the chip program expire, or use it as a bargaining chip.  But they're generally anti-abortion, at least on paper, so that doesn't support your argument.  If by infanticide you meant abortion, then I refer you to my point about circular reasoning. Euthanasia: okay!  Here we have something.  Euthanasia.  I'm not opposed to this being an option.  I'm pro death with dignity.  I'm also aware that there's a lot of right-wing misinformation about liberal European countries having massive amounts of euthanasia and/or euthanasia misuse, so I want to check that you're not under that impression.  To the extent that being pro-choice encourages one to think of the value of human life as being separate from keeping a body of cells alive... yeah, sure.  Correlated.  These countries that have legal euthanasia tend also to have better healthcare than the US, and available for free.  I'm not sure the US is in a position to lecture those countries on attitudes to the vulnerable. Designer babies.  Since Gattaca hasn't come real yet, I'm not sure what you mean by this, either.  We can't design babies.  We can pick embryos.  We can terminate for prenatal diagnoses.  If that's what you mean, well, we're back to pro-choice people being okay with abortion: circular. Aborting children with special needs: circular. Selling abortions to poor communities: careful studies have shown that this is a function of higher rates of unplanned pregnancies. Eradicating down syndrome: see two points above. So... I don't find your evidence very compelling. When I think about weak and vulnerable people (reminder: we're talking about outside of the context of abortion and I do not think that fetuses are people), and I think about which political movements are trying to help them, I sure don't think about conservatives.  Conservatives are not good for the poor and vulnerable.  Conservatives were just using CHIP as a bargaining chip.  Conservatives don't want to accept refugees.  Conservatives don't support affordable housing. Conservatives do support trickle-down economics and unlimited political spending by corporations.  Truly, what champions of the weak and vulnerable.
You are also just one anecdotal piece of evidence, so that’s really a mute point. Again, one anecdotal. You can when the abortions are targeting minorities and disabled children though. If suddenly there was a genetic test for someone's sexual orientation and babies that tested positive for homosexuality were being aborted in larger disproportionate number I think both you and I would agree that there is a problem. And that we both agree the problem is that society in general does not value and/or respect homosexual people. Well I am not getting into the Republican vs. Democrat debate. I am neither. Nor do I live in the US. My country has universal health care and I am 100% for that. I never said increased infanticide. I said increased support for infanticide. However, I actually think there may be an increase in infanticide if we consider euthanasia and lack of born alive laws. Belgium has no restrictions on euthanizing children at any age and I believe in the US (and much of Western world) up until recently children who were born alive after an abortion were left to die. So I think my point is still pretty relevant. Considering that euthanasia did not exist prior to Roe. V. Wade, that countries like Belgium have no age limit (children are being euthanized) and that yes, people who are not simply hooked up to life support like vegetables (as you've described above) and are simply suffering from mental health issues and health related issues that perhaps a new pain killer could help with, to me demonstrates a general trend of disregard for life (especially difficult or imperfect life) and fighting for life in general. Absolutely not. Because screening for disabilities and/or genetic disorders and killing the fetuses that test positive or simply killing the extra embryo conceived during IVF (selective abortion) demonstrates the general attitudes toward these conditions. If a couple decides to kill their preborn child because they find out she is a girl, I think we can both agree that most likely this couple has some issues with sexism that will carry beyond abortion. Also, see my example of the sexual orientation test. See my points above. This is debatable. See my points above. You may not but you have not provided any evidence to the contrary.  I think that the overall sentiment is to devalue what is perceived to be an imperfect human (usually those with disabilities, illnesses, the poor, elderly and the very young, weak and vulnerable). These are the people who are targeted for abortion, euthanasia. Society is just finding legal and sanitized ways to do it. Like I said above, I don’t affiliated with any party. I am also not from the US. I lean very liberal in my ideas about health care, social programs etc. I believe that these are all part of a just society. Here’s an idea, maybe if the democrats lifted their radical prochoice stance and allowed prolifers as part of their party you wouldn't have people feeling like they have to vote for people like Trump and a chance at a better system. At times I wonder if it’s all just a guise to push abortion, euthanasia and the like. But I don’t follow the politics there to closely so I can’t really say.
No. I think it’s foundational. The idea of a peaceful and just society stems from the institution of the family. If our culture encourages that a mother has authoritarian rule over the right to life of her child (our most basic right), the questions arises: who can say it’s wrong for infanticide?, and the line keeps getting pushed. Look to the logically consistent pro-choicers who do argue for infanticide.
See, I'm sitting here being pro-choice and managing not to kill my neighbors.  So even if you have a logical sequence in your head for how being pro-choice inevitably results in a murderous disposition, the reality of the world around you does not support it. Under your model of the world, would you expect countries with permissive approaches to abortion to have high murder rates?
You make a ‘violent tendencies must have a direct and single relation to abortion, see I’m pro abortion and I don’t commit violence’ argument when it suits you. Then in your other post, you make a ‘there are other factors that contribute to abortion’ argument. Ridiculous. Disregard for life does contribute to abortion.
Your logic is incredibly flawed. If someone smokes cigarettes will they definitely get cancer? No. Will they be more likely to get cancer? Yes. In the same way, a pro abortion person would be more likely to commit violence. (This can be backed up by comparing places with high crime rates and places with high abortion rates, they strongly overlap in the United States.) Mother Teresa is showing that a blatant disregard for life, through actions such as abortion, can be extended to other areas of life.
Do you think that maybe there's some relation here with socioeconomic status, unplanned pregnancy rates, or clinic locations in population centers? Seems to me that there would be, but then again my logic is incredibly flawed. The correlation you're actually looking to establish would be between political stance and murder rate, right?  Do you want to try again at establishing such a correlation?
Of course other factors come into play. A disregard for life is one factor. Don’t dishonestly pretend I claimed a single factor. A disregard for life is a huge part in the decision process of an abortion.
The quote that you posted explicitly states that there is nothing between being pro-choice and finding it acceptable to murder the person one is speaking with. My case is that such a mindset is not conducive to understanding the other side.
There is nothing left in a logical sense. If a mother can kill her own child due to ‘inconvenience.’ Then someone could follow the same logic and kill other people as well due to inconvenience.
You illustrate my argument very well.
You dishonestly tried to add the condition that a pro choice person always must perform violence in order for that to be true.
If you read what she said, Mother Teresa says abortion destroys peace. You dishonestly tried to twist it to: people that abort will commit other acts of violence. Abortion, in itself, destroys peace. Committing one peace destroying act does not guarantee we will commit another. She is right in saying that if one believes a mother can kill their own child, then someone could extend that logic to kill anyone else.
vs One of these statements is stronger than the other.  You seem to think they're equivalent.  If we're not speaking the same language, I doubt I can convince you of anything, and I will stop trying.
There is a difference between ‘can’ and ‘will.’ And abortion by itself detroys peace. Many times you dishonestly try to argue that Mother Theresa said there will be killing of others from abortionists. She showed how the logic behind killing ones own child can be extended to allow for killing anyone else.
You keep on calling it dishonest of me, which feels a little weird.  When people disagree with me about something, I don't call them dishonest.  Do you think that I'm misrepresenting my own views?  That we're interpreting the same statement the same way and I'm choosing to lie about it? Or maybe we've read the same statement and come to different conclusions about what it means, and I'm honestly stating my view on it. There's an irony in you taking this approach when I tried to make a point about some arguments only radicalizing both sides.
You are claiming things that did not happen. Yes, you are dishonest.
If you're going to take rhetorical statements literally and argue against them in bad faith, this won't go anywhere...
Tell the nearly 900,000 babies aborted per year in the United States that.
What is your goal with this comment?
To show that you are wrong.
This woman dedicated her life to the least among us. She gave up a comfortable life to work among the diseased and disliked in a place far from comfort. She knows humanity.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Criticism_of_Mother_Teresa While I understand that many people on /r/prolife are Catholic and may venerate Teresa, many also are not and /r/prolife is not explicitly Catholic.  Some people stumbling across this comment may be interested to know that Teresa did not seek to alleviate suffering, and seemed to act a lot more to promote conversion to Catholicism and fundraising for missionary work than she did to help "the least among us." This comment does not contain pro-life or pro-choice content, and is a response to /u/Monkey2Yeknom's statement lauding Teresa, which itself does not contain any pro-lfie or pro-choice content.  They are pro-Teresa, and I am not.
Thank you.
You're welcome! It's a weird /r/prolife thread where I've got an average positive comment score.
Criticism of Mother Teresa The work of Roman Catholic nun, missionary, and saint Mother Teresa received mixed reactions from prominent people, governments and organizations. Her practices and those of the Missionaries of Charity, the order she founded, were subject to numerous controversies. These include objections to the quality of medical care they provided, suggestions that some deathbed baptisms constituted forced conversion, and alleged links to colonialism and racism. Teresa received extensive media coverage, and some critics suggest that the Church used her image to promote Catholicism and to distract from ecclesiastical scandals. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source | ^Donate ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
Mother Teresa worked tirelessly for the diseased, poor, dying, and forgotten. She is a great human.
I agree. One reason why most domestic females are far more murderous than most domestic males.
I would need to see some evidence of that. Looking online, according to a report from the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, the homicide rates differ drastically between men and women worldwide with men perpetrating 95% of all homicides.
It’s not a competition over which group commits certain types of wrongs. No one is without sin.


Wow!  Such powerful messages in each sign!
The last two signs are the only ones which might provoke some pro-choice people to do some thinking. The rest of the signs are either too pre-suppositional or are too religious (which again is too pre-suppositional) to actually mean anything to the people we want to communicate with.
Some are obviously pre-suppositional but I'd talk about more than those two. Two talk about seeing the child more clearly (womb-windows) or seeing the good they could do down the road. The one quoting the declaration of independence might work on a small group who like that but are pro-life. Nonetheless, if my goal was to get the signs most likely to convince pro-choicers, it would have been a different 14 than what I posted.
I see what you’re saying, but I respectfully disagree. Seeing the child does effect mothers considering an abortion, but aren’t going to change the minds of people who are on the side of the pro-choice argument. (They’d be more effective, perhaps, in front of an abortion clinic, verses in Washington, D.C. where lawmakers are). As for the Declaration of Independence, there was a time where that just meant wealthy white men. It’s evolved a lot over time, and simply stating words that most people already know probably isn’t going to help. Isn’t comunicating the pro-life position in an understandable way exactly what the pro-life march should be about? It’s the one big shot we have at communicating with pro-choice individuals who disagree with us.


So true.
Every abortion needs to read this
lol
This seems like an unfair generalization.



What else would it be, a German Shepherd?

Nicely done!

It will be very interesting to see who votes against the bill.
Democrats, of course.  Maybe a few vulnerable Republicans in commonly blue states.  I expect a fairly straight party-line vote.



Needs 60 votes in the Senate to pass. Not going to reach 60 ever unless we vote Democrats out.
And the abortion apologist “Republicans.”
All 49 Democrats are pro abortion. At most 2 or 3 Republicans are pro abortion.
And all two or three of them need to be replaced.
Senator John McCain Senator Lisa Murkowski Senator Susan Collins http://www.lifenews.com/2017/07/28/john-mccain-joins-pro-abortion-republicans-to-defeat-senate-bill-defunding-planned-parenthood/
It's a nice idea, but I think it's similar to 'voting down Obamacare'. There's a lot of Republicans who voted for it when it was impossible. When it became possible, their votes changed.
Except in the vote in 2016 when millions of dollars in Planned Parenthood was at risk just 2 Republicans voted to defend it, so Mike Pence was able to tie break it and allow states to defund PP.
Yeah, I will freely admit there's more pro-lifers, committed ones, in the GOP than in the Democrats. There is no meaningful pro-life wing of the DNC. There's people whose job it is to say 'I'm pro-life!' and then attack GOP pro-lifers, while trying to redefine 'pro-life' to mean anything BUT anti-abortion.
Wikipedia tells me that the odds of survival are 20-35% for 23 weeks, and 50-70% for 24-25 weeks. Google tells me the most premature baby born was at 21 weeks and 5 days. If it's true that the mother's right to bodily autonomy trumps the baby's right to life then abortion is acceptable, but I can't comprehend how abortion is acceptable in cases where you can remove a baby that could live.
Simple: because if that's the metric, then A) abortion as a fundamental right is dead in the water, and B) 'abortion until viability' ties a time bomb to what remains of it, since tech advances will push the odds of survival back earlier and earlier. If abortion is considered immoral or even excessive at any stage of pregnancy, it promotes questioning about every other stage of pregnancy too. And if we explore that idea, well, maybe people will come to even more inconvenient conclusions in this culture war. So, it's incredibly important to never, ever give an inch. What's a few* dead kids matter when sexual freedom and population control is at stake? (* Well, millions, but still.)
Also using viability as a marker would imply that murder is ok as long as the person would die without assistance. This has some pretty heavy implications.
Exactly!
Of course all the """"""Pro Life"""""" Dems will all vote against the law.
There's an exception for rape or incest, but no exception for severe fetal anomalies. This line is also troubling.  Somebody with a 40% chance of dying in labor, for example, but who is now 21 weeks pregnant?  Can I call an abortion necessary to save her life?
Serious question because I don't know. How do you determine the chance of someone dying in labor? I get using their medical condition to determine if it may be dangerous or not but how would you get a number like 40%?
I love this question, because it shows a desire to get down to the nuts and bolts of what the consequences of decisions are. There are a couple of conditions for which the risk of dying in labor is known.  For example, pulmonary hypertension: studies show rates of between 30 to 50%.  That's generally considered the riskiest condition to get pregnant with. More generally, for women with heart disease there are risk calculators based on factors like their functional class, left heart obstruction, ejection fraction, and history of stroke or heart attack.  Those can also generate an estimated chance of death in pregnancy (or, more often, postpartum). For these studies and conditions, that % that you survive is just that -- survive until six weeks postpartum (and/or discharge from the hospital).  So if you survive, but you hypoperfuse your kidneys and need dialysis and die of complications from dialysis two years later, that doesn't count.  If you have a two-month ICU stay and your cardiac function never returns to what it was before delivery, that doesn't count either. For placenta accreta I've seen risks in the 5% neighborhood cited, but I haven't seen good numbers on how that changes with early diagnosis. Three patients come to mind: I had a colleague have a patient die from hemorrhage related to a pregnancy implanting in the scar from a prior cesarean.  When the placenta is not implanted normally, it invades and spreads and recruits blood supply from whatever it touches.  The pelvis in this case had become a matted mess of tissue that would hemorrhage when disrupted.  I had a patient once who had a placenta previa with prior cesareans, which is a high risk of placenta accreta (abnormal implantation); we made the diagnosis at about 20 weeks and she underwent a gravid hysterectomy (we removed the uterus with the fetus inside, which is the safest way to do it under these circumstances). I had a patient once who had uncontrolled diabetes and hypertension and developed preeclampsia prior to 24 weeks, which is very rare.  Her kidneys were being damaged by this and we knew that every week of gestation carried her closer to dialysis Medicine used to be easy, safe, and ineffective.  Now it is difficult and dangerous, but effective.  If we wait until the point where we know that somebody will definitely die without an abortion, it is typically too late to save them even with an abortion.
Thanks for that. In that final example, how is that abortion done? Would it be ok medically to induce labor in that instance and try to save the child even if the chances of survival are pretty much nil? I completely understand that there are instances where continuing a pregnancy is very dangerous and felt ending it was ok as long as it didn't directly involve killing the child. Like the example of removing the uterus. That was clearly necessary, and the baby died as a result, but killing the child wasn't the intent. Just extremely unfortunate. This obviously excludes all forms of elective abortion, which I will never see as ok. Is there any medical reason why a pregnancy would need to be ended early where it would make more sense to stop the babies heart beforehand?  Couldn't labor be induced without doing that? I ask because I had previously read about 2nd and 3rd trimester abortions involving stopping the heart and then inducing labor. I found it strange because a dead baby is the same size as a live baby and shouldn't affect labor. Also, are patients who have medical conditions that would make pregnancy dangerous told to avoid pregnancy as much as possible (birth control options and such) and/or given the option of sterilization? I feel like someone who could die from getting pregnant, and knew about it before, would be a prime candidate for elective sterilization. Is it more often the case that they knew about their condition and their birth control failed, they knew and didn't use any birth control, or that they didn't find out about the condition until they were already pregnant? That was a lot, sorry!
In that particular case, the abortion was not done.  She went into preterm labor in the late twenty weeks, if I recall, and both she and her child did much better than we expected. It would certainly not be my preference to do so.  Here are a few reasons: If delivering a live, functionally intact neonate is a goal, am I going to monitor the fetal heart rate during pregnancy?  Am I going to perform a cesarean if there is fetal distress? If there is a breech presentation, am I going to do a cesarean for that reason? A D&E is overall slightly safer than an induction abortion. On a practical, what-actually-happens level, most institutions have a gestational age at which they offer resuscitation to neonates.  For example, they might start offering interventions at 23 weeks, and intervene without asking at 24 weeks.  At such an institution, it doesn't matter if you go into preterm labor and deliver at 22 weeks or if you have an induction abortion at 22 weeks, the pediatric team does not interfere. Generally the goals of care should be "we are prioritizing maternal health" or "we are trying to get a healthy baby."  I remember a patient around 20 weeks with a cardiac condition whose family was asking, "well, what if we wait just four more weeks and then induce at 24 weeks?"  That's a really bad plan.  In some ways, it gets you the worst of both worlds.  (This seems like a good time to remind you that I do not believe in fetal personhood.) But could one do it?  Sure.  What is and is not "ok medically" is not rigorously defined.  You and I can explore what the consequences of it would be: massive expenditure of resources to mostly do nothing, but sometimes produce disabled children that require lifelong care for a low quality of life.  Even if I believed in fetal personhood, I'd rather we spend those dollars on contraception and polio vaccines, please. I disagree that it was clearly necessary.  In fact, I almost never use the word "necessary" with my patients.  The patient could have carried to 36 weeks or so and undergone a cesarean hysterectomy -- we would have first delivered the fetus and then performed a hysterectomy. This would have posed a greater risk to her life.  How much higher, I can't say, but I would estimate in the 1-5% range. Additionally, we could have first done a hysterotomy (hole in the uterus) and delivered that 20 week fetus and let some pediatricians "try to save the child" (which to me means "play with it as it died").  Because of how the uterus reacts to being emptied, this would have increased her surgical risk without any benefit other than, perhaps, your opinion of the morality of the procedure. Any pregnancy could result in death or permanent disability. Every abortion is elective and the pregnant person could choose not to have it. It is a question of degree. Looks like you edited after I started replying. I'm not a believer in sugarcoating descriptions of abortions: yes, they involve taking a fetus apart, and descriptions of them can be unsettling.  Descriptions of childbirth and surgery can also be unsettling. There are abortion providers who feel that inducing fetal demise prior to termination makes the termination easier.  Although it's the same size, the tissue may fall apart more easily, and there are providers who feel that the loss of muscle tone makes delivery easier. The current mainstream opinion is that these benefits, if present, are not worth the risk to the patient of a complication from KCl or digoxin injection, and so use of injections is best reserved to situations, e.g., when a patient is almost 24 weeks but you can't terminate for another week for medical or practical reasons. Well, I feel like everybody who wants to never become pregnant should be given the option of sterilization. But yes, big time.  We in ob/gyn are constantly reminding our internal medicine colleagues to please discuss this with their patients with chronic conditions and/or send them to us for preconception/contraceptive counseling. I don't have any numbers on this.  I've seen all three.  Depends on your population (cultural values to contraception and medical advice, level of health literacy, availability of medical care outside of pregnancy...).
Totally OT but I'm just curious, you've said many times you don't believe in fetal personhood, so when do you believe personhood begins? Does it begin right at birth, a few minutes before birth, or sometime after birth?
I think that personhood is, ultimately, a human construct.  I think that we don't kill each other because we don't want to be killed.  I don't think that there's a force in the universe that cares more about a human than a rock. I care about things that think.  I don't think there's a clear border.  Dolphins, humans with severe brain injuries, great apes, transitional species between apes and early humans, futuristic advanced AIs... it's not trivial to say when something thinks and when it doesn't. On my review of the evidence, there isn't thinking and consciousness prior to birth.  I have a compelling interest to examine that question closely.  After delivery, I lose that compelling interest.  I'm very confident that prior to birth fetuses are below that threshold for me.  Am I completely sure that they pass that threshold during or immediately after birth?  No, but they definitely pass the point at which I'm confident that they're below that threshold. Does that make sense?
What about farm animals or animals that can be legally hunted? Pigs in particular are smart and think at a higher level than newborns. Should they be given the same rights as people, and make killing them murder? Is there any situation where you'd have an interest to examine it? Let's say you have a patient that gave birth, but decided she can't care for it and giving it up for adoption would kill her psychologically, so she wants to kill the newborn. Would you consider her case if it were possible to change the law and make "after birth abortion" legal? Sorry for all the questions, I'm just curious.
Well, dolphins can be hunted legally, unfortunately. Like I said, I don't think there's a clear border.  I also think that the guideline isn't "is the smartest member of species A smarter than the dumbest member of species B?"  (Where "smarter" is really... "thinkier"?  "More conscious"?) I sometimes think I should stop eating pork, to be honest. There's no such thing as an after birth abortion; abortions are things done to pregnancies. And no, I would not find that to be a compelling interest at all, but you already knew that.  The compelling interest that I find is that I don't think people should be forced to continue being pregnant.
I know, that's why I put the term in quotes. It was coined by a couple of professors. You can read the minds of strangers on the internet? Well if infants aren't really people, then there's women being sent to jail every year for killing a non-person. Basically she's no worse then you when you eat pork but you don't go to jail for that. Seems like that would be a compelling interest to examine whether or not infants are people. If they aren't, then women who got life sentences for killing them should be let out of prison.




Again, the corollary never makes sense. Say we are talking about parents who throttle their toddlers. We say that's a violation of human rights. They say "trust parents." What?
Exactly! This makes absolutely no sense.
I can't believe how silly we've all been, wasting money on the "justice system", "criminal investigations" and all that nonsense. Of course fathers would never kill their kids. It's current year, society should be ashamed for the backwards sexist stereotype that men are just violent impulsive monsters! All we have to do is Trust Men!
Many women who have abortions would like to keep their child but don't feel able to, either because of finances or a lack of support. Some are forced into abortion by their boyfriend or parents. Mayube instead of "trusting women" to abort babies they feel unable to care society should offer more support. America does not value mothers or children. We have some of the world's most liberal abortion laws and are also the only developed country with no paid maternity leave. If you are a single mother, living paycheck to paycheck, and have no help from family, taking a month off work to care for a newborn will not be an option.
The reality is that “women” have proven they can’t be trusted in this way.
This is why pro-life and pro-choice people never see eye to eye. There are two humans in a pregnancy and both perspectives see one of those humans as being dominant.
Interesting definition of "dominant" you got there. TIL, not being allowed to murder a baby makes the baby dominant.
Why would I trust a creature to take care of my child, when she cannot even take care of herself?
what do you mean? Like the women messed up by getting pregnant when she didn't want to?

Pro Abortion groups such as Emily's List and Planned Parenthood Action Fund are planning to flood the Senate Races of 2018 with cash to keep their friends in office. We can't let them succeed!PA - https://give.victorypassport.com/barletta/homepage/?source=homepageMO - https://give.victorypassport.com/hawley/donate-today/WI - https://nicholsonforsenate.com/donate/MI - https://penslerforsenate.com/donate/ND - https://tomfornorthdakota.com/donate-page/WV - https://secure.anedot.com/morrisey/cb6ef80e3e6af19f53c73MT - https://www.mattformontana.com/donate
For Missouri:  https://www.austinpetersen.com
Petersen is propped up entirely by outside money. Not even 20% of his donations come from in state. 84% of Josh Hawley's donations are from Missouri. Even Claire McAskill has more in state money (41%) than Petersen.
Okay?  That doesn’t mean he isn’t the better candidate.  He’s getting a lot of support from across the country because he was a presidential candidate (even if a minor one) Petersen is absolutely the better candidate.
So having no real support in the state itself makes you a good candidate? What? Josh Hawley has outraised him several times over and the vast majority of his money is from Missourians.
I never said that is what makes someone a good candidate.  What I’m saying is that he’s the better candidate regardless of the donars
How is he a better candidate? He has no significant grass roots support, is totally unelectable (anti trump, pro open borders and an atheist to top it off) in Missouri.
He’s not anti-Trump tho.  And he says open boarders and a welfare state are mutually exclusive.   He doesn’t want open boarders unless the welfare state is dissolved.
Yes he is: https://www.thelibertyconservative.com/missouri-senate-candidate-austin-petersens-never-trump-hypocrisy-revealed/ Why should we have open borders? Why should we dissolve the welfare state? He's just a failed politician who flip flops (anti trump to "pro trump") (libertarian to republican) and has no real support at all.






I desire not the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turn from his way, and live. While I hope she will face legal justice, more importantly I pray that her heart will be changed before she dies, for the sake of her soul. It's not too late even for someone who has done so much evil.
Planned Parenthood committed 3.5 million abortions during her reign. Who will replace her? Hopefully not someone even worse.
but they wll
Good riddance
Judgment Day will be worse for some than others...
She's got to do some fundraisers for the Democrats so she needs to focus on that.

As in, during her tenure, that many abortions took place in the country. To whose standard? Yours? If you believe that tearing apart an unborn infant at any point, for any reason, is an essential human right and that the people who oppose such are monstrous - the only brainwash, desensitized person here is you. And you are the one who needs to be better.

Um what? It is entirely accurate to say unborn babies are torn apart during an abortion. That's not brainwashing, that's an abortion procedure. There are other kinds, but that doesn't make it incorrect. The point isn't that abortion is horrible for me or you. Abortion is horrible for the one it is happening to. It isn't enough to worry about ourselves. If everyone in the 1800s had the same mindset as you, we'd still have slaves. Is slavery horrible to me? Yes. Was slavery horrible to slave owners? No. The reason we fought against is because it was horrible for THEM. Its not brainwashing, its basic human decency.
No, it's bang-on accurate. "Tearing apart"? That's one of the things being defended in the suite - let me know if you need photograph evidence. Is it defended as an essential human right? Also yes. It's not even being particularly dramatic. It's merely blunt. As for 'whether or not it affects me', what can I say - I've got this "thing" where I call monstrous acts what they are, even if they have nothing to do with me. Even if they would materially benefit me! I could draw you up a list of innocent people who, while having done nothing wrong, would make my life better if they were murdered (or, as you may prefer, "If decisions were made that would result in a net reduction in organisms, correlating with a given array of individuals.") I'd call it monstrous if it were proposed, and oppose it. Weird, huh? See, the problem is - I'm not too concerned about your weird, necrophilic standards here. You're upset because people are not using your creepy, sterilized language for a horrific act. You literally are using more "colorful" language to describe this conversation than actual abortion. Once again, you're the brainwashed, densensitized one by any reasonable measure. I already can, with plenty of people, on just about any topic. Maybe I can't with a diehard pro-abortion zealot who will stand up and leave the room if someone uses language suggesting abortion is monstrous. But so what? You're brainwashed and desensitized, remember. (I can rally more evidence for this easily - your comments history is not the stuff of calm and reasoned analysis.) What's the value of a conversation with you? As near as I can tell, little - you're neither open-minded, nor do you have information I need. I'll just talk around you, or over you. I'll even try to sensitize you, I'll try to remove your crazy left-wing infant-sacrificing programming. All in the hopes of making you a better person, who can be reasoned with. But lacking that, really - you have no moral authority on this topic, and are of little value to converse with. At least others can see, firsthand, that your ranting and moral pronouncements mean nothing, and you can be stood up to, confronted and dismissed with ease. So, thanks for being that useful, at least.

Uh yeah, I hate lifeshitenews but you'd be sorely mistaken to think all pro-lifers are right wing. I'm an atheist and feminist and fall more to the left than the right (I can show you my political compass!). Being against abortion doesn't make someone right-wing.
Too late. Yep. Because, as I said: At least others can see, firsthand, that your ranting and moral pronouncements mean nothing, and you can be stood up to, confronted and dismissed with ease. Your approval means little. You have no moral authority. But you're someone loud and demanding and frankly, a little nuts. No one has to pretend that your approval is necessary. No one has to desperately want dialog with you. You're an example. Who's lying? I can, and have, had long discussions with people about this and other topics. Nazis and communists. Anti-natalists and feminists. White supremacists and SJWs. But those people who can be conversed with just talk. They don't furiously demand that I declare, in advance, that I am wrong as a condition for conversation. They don't insist I sterilize all my language as a pre-condition for discourse. "Stop saying abortion is murder or I won't respect you and I deny you dialog with me!" Well, I don't care about your respect. Why would I? Why should anyone? Oh God, this is rich. 'How DARE you call me closed-minded. I'll have you know I know you and everyone like you! And you're horrible and wicked and...' Goodness, however did I get the impression you were, in fact, closed-minded, brainwashed, and a zealot. What a mystery...
I wouldn't describe you as horrible or wicked.  Those are strong words that only someone who has been brainwashed into thinking about everyone who is different from them, would describe people as such, or have such a guilty conscience that they think everyone thinks so badly about them.  Again, proving my point.  You can have your beliefs and not be horrible or wicked.  Doesn't mean you're not wrong and that you should be able to inflict your "morals" onto everyone else, though.  You're probably an ok person, but having beliefs doesn't make you wicked.
One look at your comment history sheds a whole lot of light on what you think of people who disagree with you on these topics. You've already decided quite a lot about me, because I call abortion murder. You say you know me inside and out, what motivates me, what I want, and what I think of others. You've also been wrong. Wrong about who I'll talk with, and how. Wrong about what I think of others. Demonstrably wrong. Somehow, that hasn't shaken you. Oh, but I'm the brainwashed one. Because I have to be, for you to cope. Calling abortion "murder" better be a bad, horrible, unacceptable thing. You'd have a problem on your hands otherwise. As I said, your precondition for 'conversation' is surrender. No thanks. Depending on the belief, it can. "People of race X are subhuman and should be eliminated." "Women/men have no moral rights, you can do as you please with them and it's morally irrelevant." I'd add "Unrestricted access to abortion is an inviolable right." to the list. That doesn't mean we can't talk with people like that, or converse. We can exchange ideas. But not when they demand they automatically be viewed as advocating something A-OK and not monstrous from the start. Seriously, you rolled in here calling everyone names for using strongly-worded terms, despite being a rant machine. Here, let me help you out: it drives you nuts that people call abortion what it is - murder, infanticide, slaughter - because it's rhetorically effective with many people. It's self-evident truth, once you look at the pictures which you probably also believe should be barred from discourse. So you shriek and demand people parse it and scale it back and numb it down to something harmless and unthreatening, or else you'll condemn them and threaten not to talk with them. Yeah, no thanks.
Yeah, I'm sure you've got me pinned with all the nasty things I've said about pro-life people.  Sure. No.  You can call it whatever you want.  My problem lies with the idea that your will should be imposed on others.  The "strong language" that you throw around with each other only serves to further your anger and others in this echo chamber towards people who are pro-choice. At this point, who's ranting?  I said one paragraph stating my opinion, and you just couldn't stop but letting loose on me with your pretentious and condescending tones, as though you're some kind of moral authority on the subject of abortion rights. Nah, you ain't. I didn't call anyone any names.  I said you all needed to be better and not listen to people like Dave Daleiden and his poisonous viewpoint. It's literally turning people into monsters, and cursing their fellow Americans.  This kind of "effective rhetoric" is exactly why our country is so divided right now, so I'm going to apologize for having issue with that. Again, I don't really care ultimately what you do, because while I may believe something different, I'm not going to try and impose that on others.  You should take a lesson from that.
lol you think all pro-lifers are right-wing nut jobs...I think at least one of our mods might have something to say about that. Also me. A lot of pro-lifers on here are decidedly nowhere close to right-wing. You know nothing, random redditor.
Simple fact that you're a pro-lifer puts you on the right side of the spectrum.  Everything else just falls in to place. You're putting words in my mouth.  nut jobs, wicked....I haven't used any of these words in this conversation. I know plenty, random redditor.
How does that make any sense? The only thing being pro-life means is wanting to protect those that cannot protect themselves. Everything else is irrelevant. You should reflect on why you came to think that wanting to protect the unborn from slaughter makes us everything wrong with the world.  We are actively trying to save lives. That will never be wrong. I hope you get it one day.
My gosh, do you even realize how many assumptions you’ve made in this response and how ignorant it makes you sound. What a waste of everyone’s time. Maybe this will help you, no you don’t have to be right winger to be prolife. No, you don’t have to be religious to be prolife. And no, you do not know everyone who is prolife and what they think, do and feel. Stop making judgements and start asking questions and perhaps your conversations will be a little more fruitful.
You've made a great point.  It's not cool when people paint entire groups as something when they don't really know each person and what they stand for.  Like referring to liberals as infant-killing monsters or whatever other terms have been used here and in this garbage article to describe anyone who doesn't agree with them. That being said, why do we make these giant assumptions?
Can you actually site where it says anything of the sort in the article? I've been through it and haven't seen anything like what you've mentioned.
Using the term ‘oversaw’ does not mean one physically has to see the object. The definition is ‘to supervise’ and of course our managers and bosses don’t physically see 100% of our actions. It is an appropriate term to describe what a person in a management position does.

London Met Police have recently given up on investigating "nonserious" crimes because they're overwhelmed. Silencing prolifers though, now there's an urgent priority!
If that's the case then it's unlikely they'll do much about this either, probably just fine protesters if there are any around while they patrol. Making more laws doesn't mean there will be more enforcement.

I'm not sure England has freedom of speech protections. They definetly don't have ones like the US does. The US isn't perfect, but it's a whole lot better.
 a consultation on the action.
I like how the "chose one:" category has "pro-choice" and "anti-choice"... I wonder who wrote this survey.

Must have forgotten to reassemble the body parts to check they were all there.
They did do that and saw some was missing. And the scan indicated that there was something left behind, but he said it was complete. Sheer negligence.

I went to w&m, and unfortunately I'm not surprised. I've experienced firsthand hostility over being pro life. It's sad that people at a place of higher education refuse to entertain opposing viewpoints, even only in passing.


How do we contact these companies to voice our anger on this issue?
Usually there's an "investor relations" contact you can call or e-mail. 2nd vote allows you to click "Send an e-mail" on most organization pages. Take AARP for example.


"Among Catholics in the United States surveyed in the study, 48 percent said they were in favor of legal abortion, while 47 percent said they were opposed to it and 5 percent said they didn’t know." Shameful!
Indeed.  However, most of that is due to the fact that they have been convinced that while it may be wrong for themselves, they can't force someone else into that same situation. I have some sympathy for that view point on some social issues, but this is life or death for an innocent person.  What is more, since we're all supposed to be Catholics here, they should understand and believe in souls and God's gift of life. In short, they're likely mostly all "cultural" Catholics.  I really wouldn't bother even considering them to be actual adherents, if they maintain that view of life.  Sadly I know more than a few people like that.
Good explanation of the principle of double effect:
Thanks. So does the author believe it immoral to, in the case of ectopic pregnancy, remove the fetus? The line "in the case of an ectopic pregnancy, a physician may licitly choose the act of removing the affected area of the mother's fallopian tubes to achieve the end of saving her life" is unclear. Not sure if 'licit' is her thought on the matter or the rationality that others use. Do you clearly understand her position?
I think the author means: It is morally acceptable to treat the mother's life threatening condition by removing the part of fallopian tube because (a) removing the part is not an evil act and (b) the unchosen consequence (death of the child) does not outweigh the purpose (saving the mother's life). The same justification might be used if the mother needed lifesaving chemotherapy or something, which is not evil in itself but would kill the child. Aborting the child, even for the good cause of saving the mother's life would violate (a). I understand why some people, from a secular perspective would say "Why does this matter if the result is the same"? I used to think that way too, but now I understand the ends don't justify the means. Morality is not only about results. Intentions matter.
In the case of a tubal, the chances of both the mother and child dying are far greater though, so I don't think "evil" comes into play when fixing that situation. This was a good read.
Killing a child is always evil and can't be justified by good intentions or consequences. In the ectopic pregnancy example: Removing part of the tube to treat the mother's condition is not itself an evil act, the intentions are good (saving the mother's life) and the bad consequences (child's death) does not outweigh that intention. But say you instead inject methotrexate to kill the child - in this case the act is inherently evil, so it is unjustifiable despite the good intentions of saving the mother's life.
Can you clarify this?  Are these two different treatment options for the same problem?
I'm not sure what you mean? Yes, removing the affected tube and using drugs to kill the embryo are two ways of stopping an ectopic pregnancy. But the latter is an act of taking an innocent life, which is immoral regardless of intention.
If they're both different methods of dealing with the same problem and end in the same result, why is one more evil than the other?
Because morality isn't consequentialist. One involves a morally wrong action, the other does not. Like, bribing a judge is more evil than presenting true evidence at a trial even if both put a guilty criminal in prison.
But if the problem is a tubal pregnancy, and surgery or injecting a medication have the same result, how is one more whole than the other? Say that was the woman's only working ovary and fallopian tube.  Is it evil to remove it and prevent other children from being born when they could have just injected the drug? Is it just to expose the woman to potentially worse complications when the injection would be safer?

Got it. Perhaps she's saying that an ectopic removal isn't truly an abortion.





awesome! wish I could've gone
I was there!
Hi, I'm a bot for linking direct images of albums with only 1 image https://i.imgur.com/WiXsm1Y.jpg Source | Why? | Creator | ignoreme | deletthis

Good to know that the March for Life has a worldwide appeal, even in the most abortion-crazy countries. France needs another Chouannerie!

As a pro legal abortion supporter I condemn their actions .

Well said. It really speaks to how cleverly the abortion industry has disguised a deeply misogynistic practice as women's rights.
It seems clever until you look at abusers in general and realize that one of the most common tactics of abusers is to convince the abused that they're the only person who "loves" them.
At this point, I feel like it isn't even really like that any more.  It's second-level generational stuff now. The people who started this have handed it off to the people that they brought up with the idea that is is "good" and "progressive". It's the only world that they know, and shaking some of them of that view is tantamount to religious conversion or de-conversion.
This whole article is full of some really strong evidence. Thanks for the link.
More like: millions currently die with abortion.


Good Trump


It doesn't even really make sense. Texas' abortion clinics didn't close until 2013. The maternal mortality in that state started steadily rising around 2007, years before the closings.
This line really got me laughing, "The less access to abortion, the greater the chance that women will die in childbirth or pregnancy." Yeah, I heard if you have an abortion, your chances of dying while giving birth to the child you're not pregnant with dramatically reduce! /s
Yeesh, I wish I didn't give that article a hit. A recent article was posted here that actually dismantles this one pretty handily: http://blog.secularprolife.org/2017/10/millions-will-die-without-abortion-nope.html

It pisses me off so much that they would add the qualifier “self-described” to feminist and put “pro-life feminists” in scare quotes. No, feminism is not the sole province of abortion apologists.  Learn to accept.
I went into it thinking Nawaz would play the role of an interviewer or a journalist.  I didn’t realize that she would have an agenda from the very beginning.  I thought Bennett was rather forgiving with all the interruptions and thinly-veiled judgement Nawaz was throwing her way. I really wanted to tell Nawaz after the fifth time she called abortion a right that just because someone has a right doesn’t mean they should have that right.  Two hundred years ago, white men had the “right” to own black people.
It honestly didn't seem that bad to me.  It wasn't an really interview, it was more of a conversation. And frankly, it seemed like Ms Bennett got a bit flustered and ended up setting up Ms Nawaz. It seems like Bennett thrives more on personal anecdotes, which are great for pro-life advocacy but did not really suit this podcast format.  Someone of a more philosophical bent would probably have been a better fit.  Nawaz essentially got to frame the conversation with a pro-choice framework
It was framed as a conversation, but it was basically a poorly disguised "gotcha." Every time Bennett made a point about something, Nawaz started waving her hands in the air and interrupting so she couldn't get a word in. Nawaz attempting to defend positions by feigning ignorance of an issue to make it look like what Bennett was saying wasn't even real...
Can I ask you what your flair means?
Essentially, stop making me pray to end abortion
Um, maybe my video is skipping but there are literal chunks where Bennett’s speech is spliced up.


It sure feels like this sub is getting brigaded more than usual. All the new submissions have been downvoted heavily fairly quickly.
I'm a liberal woman with a lifetime of liberal family and friends.  Many participated in the Woman's March on Sunday.  Lots of facebook photos, many with signs from the march.  One said what they were marching for, and the same sign said something about marching for reproductive rights and human rights.  I'm sorry, but you can't claim both.   You can be marching for Reproductive rights-- but then you are choosing to ignore the human rights of most vulnerable, voiceless humans on Earth.
It's pure cognitive dissonance. I don't see how they don't get it.
Cognitive dissonance explicitly means that you do understand it, if you didn't understand it would just be ignorance.
It means you have inconsistent thoughts or beliefs. It doesn't necessitate that you are aware of it.
Yes it does, it is the realization that your beliefs are inconsistent. If yoy aren't aware that they are inconsistent then it isn't cognitive dissonance. For example if I want to help the homeless so I donate to some charity that is actually evil, but I don't know it's evil, and doesn't help the homeless, instead it hurts them, that isn't cognitive dissonance. It explicitly requires that you are aware of the contradiction in your beliefs.
Realization is not necessarily involved in dissonance. It's more of a feeling. And many that experience cognitive dissonance choose to ignore it and never really deal with the feeling. Look it up and you will see.
Yes, but if they choose to ignore it then they must first be aware of it. If you don't consider the beliefs to be contradictory then there is no cognitive dissonance. If a vegan likes something with meat in it, it only becomes cognitive dissonance when they become aware that they ate meat. If they don't know that ate meat, there is no cognition.
Haven't you ever had the feeling that something is not right but you can't quite put your finger on it? Unless you take the time to really investigate you might never know what it is that actually does not make sense.
Sure, but that isn't cognitive dissonance. Do you consider it cognitive dissonance when prolife people aren't against the death penalty or war?
See here. I don't see where conscious awareness is a requirement. Unless you have a source to back you this seems pointless. It depends on exactly why they are prolife. Most believe that ALL innocent and living human beings deserve equal rights. From that perspective I think a prolifer can be for the death penalty. Personally I am not but that's pretty irrelevant. And if innocent people are being slaughtered in war then I think they'd experience dissonance if they were ok with that. I assume most justify it as an act of self defence.
Because you can't have a feeling about it unless you are aware of it. If you hold two beliefs are actually contradictory but you aren't aware of that, then that doesn't elicit any cognitive dissonance. The person in the picture likely sees no contradiction in human rights and abortion rights so there is no cognitive dissonance.

It's because at the basis of the abortion industry it's really a very patriarchal structure.  The reason these types of people see reproductive rights as human rights is that they see women has having less reproductive rights than a man and they want women to have the same (lack) of responsibilities when it comes to reproduction as a man.  In other words, they really see the female human body as being "less" than a man's.  They get all "but!but!but!" when you point that out to them, but it really is the way they view the world - women are less than men and the only way to be equal to a man is to be able to not have your biology dictate what happens to...your biology.   Instead, using medical technology, they believe, you can make your body have the same responsibility as a man's. Instead, women and men should be seen as "equal in dignity but different in function" when it comes to biology especially.  Life is a gift!   Women should celebrate that they can hold another life inside of themselves and literally feed another human with their very bodies.  What makes women and men different should be celebrated rather than this disgusting trying to push equality through abortion.
I heard somewhere that the feminist movement decided to take the worst stereotypes of masculinity and run with them- sleeping around, no commitment, etc.
Sadly, it is true.  Rather than embrace that men and women are different, they've decided that everyone needs to have the exact same responsibilities, or lack therefor of, in absolutely everything.  They don't like that, in general, men are stronger.  As a woman, I personally have zero issue with that - however, I do have an issue with making the requirements to be in the military as a woman less strenuous than a man's requirements.  Women aren't any less like to be shot at or any less likely to have a need to run with a full pack on their back.  They also aren't any less likely to need to carry a team mate to safety.  But, according to the feminist movement, women should be in every single job so the requirements were lowered for women.  That just makes the guys on the team's job that much harder as they have to make up for what she can't do.  Personally, I'd like to see all the requirements for both men and women lowered to the women's requirements as there are a lot of jobs in the military that really just don't need strength or endurance as factors. In other words, their philosophy has infiltrated a lot of different places and not for the better.
I would be on board with the military part as long as they had a separate set of standards to meet for anyone going near combat (or a specialty that requires physical strength, etc). I'm in the military and it's a little crazy how much different the standards are.
I love how you said this!!! Thanks for articulating this so well.
I believe in reproductive rights. I don't think those entail killing other humans, though. You can believe in both, as long as "reproductive rights" isn't just a code word for abortion.
That's why I cringe every time I see someone with a sign about "reproductive rights." I want to agree with them, but I know they really just mean abortion. Everyone should have the decision on whether they reproduce or not, but only before it actually happens. Once it's happens, it can't unhappen.
Exactly. Using "reproductive rights" as a code word for abortion is as absurd as using "parental rights" as a code word for throttling your toddler. That's not what it means at all.
Yes. We should take that term back.
It’s not really complicated, is it? Because in most cases they don’t think of them as human beings. The unborn don’t look or behave like the people they think of as humans (like themselves, in other words). Same reason anyone ever dehumanizes anyone else.
I think the word I've commonly seen used is "parasite".
Yep. And not just for the unborn, but all kinds of "undesirables."
I think Dems consider unborn "parasites" but it's the Reps that consider "poor people" parasites.
Don’t forget minorities and immigrants.
That’s an unfounded talking point of the left.
Really?  Who wants to help poor people and who would literally take away school lunches if they could?
Literally a false talking point. But, go ahead. Keep on repeating it and maybe then it’ll come true.
Mitt Romney:  https://www.huffingtonpost.com/david-bier/conservatives-must-reject_b_3230001.html
A link from 5 years ago that talks about people being dependent on government? From HuffPo? That doesn't have anything to do with your point? You're really feeding into some stereotypes here.
Makes claim, someone rejects claim, provides examples to support claim, someone rejects example. You can't win. Even though you're right.
Don't even get me started on this one... You know, though, it makes me really sad. Because what these people are saying, if they think unborn babies are parasites, is that on some fundamental level they are parasitic. I just want to hug them and tell them, no. You are not, and never have been, a parasite! You belong here, and being genuinely helpless or dependant doesn't change that! You mattered even when you couldn't take care of yourself, you aren't a burden.
I feel you. It’s not a far leap from there to calling children, and the elderly, or the disabled parasites.
Or anyone ill, or poor, or in need of help. A movement that claims to be humanitarian sure has a low view of humans.
Politics is looking pretty bleak here in the US.
sex > all
Maybe it’s time to stop being a liberal woman? Do you enjoy adhering to an ideology that prides itself in holding to contradictory beliefs?
I think you can hold liberal beliefs without them necessarily being contradictory. I consider myself a liberal pro-lifer.
Being against the senseless murder of children in the womb has nothing to do with any other "liberal" or "conservatives" topics. Not everyone lives and dies by this ridiculous notion that you have to hate x if you believe y and z. I think abortion is murder, but I also think birth control is perfectly fine if you want to use it, though I don't myself, Im against abstinence only sex education, I have no opinion against gay marriage and support LGBT rights, I'm not a particularly religious Jew but I do believe in god, I think government funded welfare programs are super important....etc etc for most "liberal issue." So why do I have to be conservative just to want an end to child murder? I actually find it entirely ridiculous that you think political affiliation should be a black and white list of things people can and can't believe.
Welcome to the problem of the US political system.With the first-past-the-vote system essentially promoting a 2 party system there bound to be issues with voters voting for something they do not believe in. Pro-abortion but also like guns? Sucks for youThink the tax cuts are awesome but Trump is a moron? Tough luck to you There is no nuance left in US politics, everything is so black and white now that once you affiliate with 1 specific issue, everyone automatically assumes you not only support the party who favors that view but on top of that they expect you share all the views of that party. It's pretty ridiculous to see for me as a European how divided the US is currently due to this polarizing structure and there barely seems any interest in fixing it.
Thank you! I'm so sick of hearing that people who lean liberal on other issues aren't "real" pro-lifers or that we're just faking it for some reason. We still come on here, despite others telling us the exact same thing, that we have to agree on every single belief of one side or we don't belong. If this wasn't a really important issue to us then why would we go to the trouble? Why wouldn't we just go along with what the pro-choicers say so that we can have their approval?
I'm sick of hearing it for conservative issues too: "If you aren't anti-capital punishment and pro- unlimited immigration, feminism, welfare, sex ed and free birth control  then you aren't really prolife, you just want to control women." Defending the lives of innocent children shouldn't be marginalized to a political fringe, it should be something we can all agree and unite on.
Exactly! It's such a waste of time to argue over sides when there is a much larger problem that should have the attention.
Seriously. The trump circle jerk is enough to make anyone want to jump ship. If I wasn't really pro-life, why would I still be here? Because despite my disagreements, we all want to protect life. Let me save babies, damnit!!!
There’s nothing about being pro life that is inherently conservative. Honestly, it’s weird in a lot of ways how the Republicans have taken the defacto stance of pro life, because nothing else they do is terribly consistent with valuing all human life as equal. (Yes, I know it’s for religious votes. But it’s still stupid.) The left has a lot more in common with classical Christian social teaching than the American right does currently. But they gotta pander to get the votes, amirite?
This is what I have such a hard time understanding. What about Jesus' teachings are in line with current American Christian conservatism? Absolutely nothing. Which is why most sincere Catholics don't identify with the Republican Party and are extremely unhappy with the current political climate.
Nothing, but Liberals seem to be smart enough to realize that basing your beliefs on how a country should be run shouldn't be based on whatever a book 2000 years old says you should do.
Actually not true if you've read the New Testament.  Jesus' main beef was don't be a hypocrite and don't rely on the government/this world but on yourself and God.  (The whole give to Caesar what is Caesar's thing..)
...I don't even know where to begin. Never has there been so much wrong in one Reddit comment.
If you'd like to argue with someone who actually translated parts of the Septuagint from the original ancient Greek and parts of the Vulgate from Latin and still has all her notes on the subjects, feel free.  But you might want to bring back up.  I've proven priests wrong.  :-)
I don't need to argue anything. Simply having read the New Testament is enough to know you're wrong. Though I'll stick with getting my information from my husband who happens to be a Catholic Theologian who spent years at the University of Norte Dame learning more than anyone should about the topic. I'll take that over someone who has some notes about a college course they once took.
Please, back up your assessment with facts rather than opinion.  Jesus was against hypocrites.  This is clear in Mark 7:6, Matthew 6:1, Matthew 23:27-28, Luke 20:46-47, Matthew 7:1-3, and several other passages to start. Also, you might want to look at Catholic Vote if you believe yourself to be Catholic.  Or you might want to look at how Catholics should vote since it's actually against the Catholic teachings to vote for someone who is pro-choice when there are other candidate options.   To vote for someone who is pro-choice is considered a grave sin.
Lol it's funny you think I took issue with you saying he was against hypocrites. Yeah, that's not the part I'm disputing. Also I'm not catholic, so I don't believe myself to be one...? Neither do I believe a catholic would ever, in good conscience, vote for a pro- choice candidate. I do, however, know that Catholics do not support most of the morally corrupt shit spewing from the current administration.
Well, when you provide nothing but "I do not agree", then of course people will be confused with what you do not agree with.  You mentioned your husband was Catholic so therefore I provided the Catholic links.  If you refuse to do anything other than "I don't agree/I don't believe that is correct" without evidence, then you are just another corrupt liberal yourself.

I don't like either party frankly.  Though I believe if as a society you force women to have unwanted babies, you better better be willing to care for those babies from cradle to grave, not just until they are born, which is what Republicans want to do.  And I would never vote Republican for Environmental issues alone.  Killing unwanted babies, doesn't mean a lot if a few corporations and industries are literally killing the entire planet.
Consider the following: The people telling you that "the science is settled" on climate change and we're all gonna die are the exact same people telling you a baby in the womb isn't really human.
Not until I got into a scientific field did I realize how naïve my expectations were and how deeply the politics and bias runs.
Couldn’t have said it better myself.

I also see that you ended your response "That's how I see it anyway"... at what other issue are humans allowed to kill other humans, over a "matter of opinion"?  Laws are there to protect weak humans from being harmed, even against the majority because that's what's right.    Please don't buy in to the bullsh!t that these are just a "bunch of cells" that just magically turn in to a baby at 9 months.   We are only one of 7 Countries in the World that allow elective abortions right up to the point the baby is literally savable.  That's nothing short of heinous.
Dress it up however you want, you're still wrong. Just imagine if a 4 year girl needed a blood donation and whose mother was the only match but still refuses to provide. Don't deny how horrible that is.

I might have some respect for this bodily autonomy aurgument if you actually believed it yourselves instead of just using it as an excuse. You harp on about the blood and organs of a mother but quite contentedly turn a blind eye to what abortion procedures do to the body of her child.

Conjoined twins can not kill each other. Why is blood so important? What if you need another person's hands to make you a bottle or arms to cradle you or energy from someone else's outlet to keep your life support on?
If one of the conjoined twins wishes to separated, their request should be granted regardless of what happens to the other twin. What if I need that? Then I'll request it. If the person that owns the hands denies it, I'll have to deal with it because I respect people's bodily autonomy.
That might be your opinion but not how the law works. Also, I'm not talking about separation. I'm talking on demand killing. Imagine conjoined twins who find out they have an acute disease that allows one sibling to thrive by virtue of the other. However, during the course of the disease the brother providing the lifeline discovers that he will not survive once the sickness has run it's course. He is outraged that his sister will continue to live while he will die. Thus, he decides to kill his sister. He would be charged with murder. He can't just decide to kill his sister simply because she is attached to him. We are not talking about need. We are talking about elective abortion. So you are totally cool with infanticide then because that's where your logic leads. Imagine a parent who decides that he no longer wants to feed his newborn daughter. The baby dies of starvation. He will be charged with murder. Newsflash, you can not just do whatever you want with your body. When what you want to do hurts another the law can stop you or compel you from one action or another.
Kill his sister? No that's murder. He should however be allowed to separate himself from his sister. If this results in the sister dying, that is not murder. That is just the sister dying on her own. It is nobody's fault that she died. Technically, it's her own body's fault, she wasn't capable of living on her own and therefor she died a natural death. I do not lump feeding a newborn with giving a fetus the right to stay in your uterus. I agree you should be charged for murder if you have taken your child home after birth and then starved it. I don't believe you should not be charged with murder for removing a child from your organs, even if it leads to that baby's death. The former situation requires you to perform actions after you have willingly taken a child into your care. The latter is a basic human right for someone who owns an organ. They are two completely different things and should be discussed separately.
Really? So a father leaves his newborn daughter out in the cold. She freezes to death. By your logic, it's not his fault because she was incapable of surviving on her own. Here's another, a man tosses a kid who can't swim over the side of his boat. He dies of asphyxiation because he can not survive in the water. Not to mention that abortion kills the child before they exit the birth canal via poisoning, chemical burning and/or tearing apart. An aborted child is not simply evacuated from the womb. There is a difference between abortion and induction. I realize you don't. The point is that from a logical point of view the two things are no different. And many argue that when you have consensual sex you have willing taken on the risk of ending up with another human being in you. But if it helps, imagine a situation where the mother does not want the child. She gives birth and leaves the child to die. She would also be charged with negligence homocide at best, first degree murder at worst. I don't agree and you haven't explained how so.
The child thrown overboard wasn't using the man's blood against his will. The newborn daughter locked outside in the cold was again, not using organs and blood against the parents will. Abortion is NOT the same as throwing a child in a river in my eyes. Throwing a child into the river is an act of violence against a child. Abortion is the termination of pregnancy in that you are saying you will not allow someone else to use your blood against your will. Sure, a child dies in the process, but the initial act is preserving you're right to bodily autonomy over the right of someone else's bodily autonomy. Your right to your organs and blood takes absolute priority over another person. Nobody should be allowed to use your organs and blood against your will. This is different than throwing a child out a boat for obvious reasons (to me). Of course I understand you and everyone else here disagrees with it and that's fine. I was simply explaining my viewpoint as that is what OP was looking for.
I get that this is your opinion but you keep ignoring the questions I pose. You've gone back to focus on blood. At the beginning of this conversation I asked, why is blood so important? What makes blood more important than flesh and bone. In terms of organs, the reality that every limb in your body is also an organs so I'm not sure why you're focusing specifically on internal organs? I also posed the question of conjoined twins which you've chosen to ignore. See my example of the conjoined siblings. It would be a little easier to converse if you would try to dig a little deeper and actually try to explain the difference. Just saying, it's obvious is not really a helpful explanation to me.
I think blood, flesh and bones are all the same. They are your body. I believe you should be allowed to put objects inside your body or remove them at will. This has nothing to do with the laws in our society that dictate what we are allowed to do USING our bodies. For example I can't murder someone by stabbing them. I can however remove a wart on my skin with a knife. An abortion, to me, is simply removing something from yourself that you wish wasn't there. Yes I know, abortion involves the murder of a child. But instead of doing that, why not remove the child from a uterus and allow it to die on its own? As for the conjoined twin issue, I feel the same way. Find out which person owns what parts, and if either of them wishes to separate, they should be allowed to regardless of what happens to the other.
Here's the thing. You're stating your opinion and I get it. But I am asking you to explain it or back it up. I am asking why is removing objects from your body any morally different than compelling someone to use their body in a way that they do not want to? And just as a side note, legally you can not remove things from or put things into your body at will. Some examples are harvesting one's own organs or injecting illegal drugs into yourself. Both illegal. I don't think these examples explain the reasoning behind your ideology. The reason you can not murder someone is because that would be infringing on their right to life (which is the case with abortion). The reason you can remove the wart is because it is not harming anyone (which is not the case with abortion). Again, we go back to the conjoined twins example. Can the brother decide (in the scenario I described above) to slice, tear and pry his sibling off of himself leaving her dead? Isn't that infringing on her bodily autonomy? Because pushing a child into an environment that is not conducive to their survival is considered killing in every other situation. Why is leaving a child to drown in a pool or out in the cold to freeze any different than leaving a born child to die afterbirth? And as mentioned before, this could only happen with a late term abortion. Earlier abortion necessitate that the preborn child is killed in utero before exiting the birth canal. Why do they need to know who owns which parts? There will never be a way to separate without infringing on the other person's body. And again, my example had nothing to do with separation. I'm not sure if you are being wilfully obtuse or you really do not get me questions. I hope your next response actually attempts to address my questions.

Zooantharia-- Okay, but then you aren't for "human rights" of the weak, because in the abortion issue, the women aren't the victims, their unborn children are. I also seen a pictures with women dressed up from the 1800's that said something like "Different century, same problems", something like that.   AGAIN BULLSH!T!!!!!! 100% crap!   I lived with my Great-grandmother who raised 10 children during the Great Depression.  I'm glad she had 10 children because my grandmother was #10. But, my grandmother didn't always have the right to vote.   My grandmother didn't have any options for birth control. As I see it as a strong responsible woman, I am responsible for my actions.  There are many options for birth control besides lamb skin condoms and the pull-out method. If TWO methods of birth control are used PROPERLY, it reduces the chance of pregnancy to near ZERO--- so why are abortions necessary AT ALL????  Because people don't want to use birth control pills AND condoms?  Or an IUD?  Or just have oral and anal sex, no one ever got pregnant that way. Women are free to make all the choices in the World before they get pregnant, but after they ALLOW another life to form in their body, their body is no longer their own.   They shouldn't be allowed to kill their unborn any more than any other parent is allowed to kill their offspring. Murder is murder and all humans should have rights.  You know slave owners didn't think that slaves should have rights.  What do people think of them today?  Maybe if things go well for babies, they will think all those marchers are as cruel and barbaric as slave owners.
Just a note that there are a couple of cases of pregnancy from anal sex, from what I can only call "drip-down."  No data that I'm aware of on what the failure rate is on that. There's also one documented case of pregnancy from oral sex -- it involved getting stabbed in the stomach and the sperm made it down to the egg. Finally, and more notably, about 0.5% of pregnancies in the US occur in people who claim never to have had intercourse. (I don't have any point or counterpoint with this.  Just a "the more you know" thing.) Legally, there are a lot of ways this idea would affect healthcare that go beyond abortion rights.  There are a lot of decisions about the management of pregnancy that the pregnant person gets to make, not the fetus and also not anybody acting on behalf of the fetus (other than the pregnant person). Decisions like whether to deliver vaginally or by cesarean.  What kind of prenatal testing to get.  When to deliver.  Whether or not to stay inpatient for monitoring in certain settings.  Whether or not to get invasive procedures or testing. Whether or not to eat swordfish, brie, or deli meats.  Whether or not to smoke marijuana, drink alcohol, or smoke cigarettes.  Whether or not to sit in hot tubs. "Their body is no longer their own" is a sentiment that, if adopted, would change a lot more things than the legality of abortion. Please note, mods: the above sentiments do not contain any pro-choice or pro-life sentiment.
I watched an old episode of ER where a mom no longer wanted to have her baby so she basically withheld treatments and let the full term baby die.  There was nothing they could do about it.   That's not right.  That is as wrong as killing a baby at birth of which there are many men and women sitting in prison for that right now. Women ARE charged for neglect in cases where babies are born addicted to drugs.  As they should be.   I think society judges women now who are noticeably pregnant and still smoking.  I mean, it was acceptable to drink and smoke while pregnant when I was baking in my mom's oven.
First, let me say that I've been in situations where patients declined treatment that I felt was in the best interest of them and their fetus, ranging from minor (TDAP shot at 28 weeks) to major (delivery of compromised fetuses).  I have experienced the frustration firsthand. There is no force that could compel me to operate on a patient who has capacity and does not consent.  I would act to discredit, censure, ostracize, undermine, and strip the license from any doctor I knew who did otherwise.  I feel confidence that my colleagues would do the same to me, and am glad of it.  Autonomy is one of the four tenets of medical ethics, and we are all better off for it. I invite you to suggest the law that you have in mind, that would let the doctors from ER strap the woman down (tase her? medically sedate her? wrestle her?) and treat her (operate on her? vaginally examine her?) against her will.  I am confident that there is no way to write that law that won't result in violations of autonomy that (I hope) you would find intolerable. This varies from state to state. I invite you to read: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC419718/ https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5151516/ If a child was born with congenital Listeria, and the mother admitted to eating deli meat, would you support her prosecution?  What is substantially different between that and a congenital cocaine baby?  I would argue that the substantial differences do more to exonerate the cocaine user, as cocaine is more addicting than cold cuts. I think that the only reason that the states with absurd laws or precedents on the books (I'm looking at you, South Carolina) haven't spiraled out of control is that prosecutors are only applying them to cases where we already see a moral crime as taking place.  We have sympathy for the cold cuts Listeria mom, or the mom who didn't take anticoagulation during pregnancy even though she was advised it would reduce her risk of miscarriage.  We don't have sympathy for drug users. ("We" here is used broadly.  I've got tons of sympathy for them.  Perhaps you do too.) So that's argument one: "first they came for cocaine addicts, then they came for deli meat eaters..." Argument two is: this makes things worse. When there are criminal consequences, people fear their doctors.  They avoid care, they avoid disclosing, they switch hospitals right before delivery... I've seen these problems firsthand, and they're discussed in the first of the two links above. Unfortunately, I'm not aware of any hard evidence on the health outcomes of such laws, either to support or oppose such laws.  It might seem strange to you, but most of the pregnancies I treat are desired, and I work hard to turn those fetuses into healthy babies and I care a lot about them.  If you showed me evidence that such laws helped improve health outcomes for women and newborns, I'd reconsider.  The evidence that I am aware of, from papers like the ones above, suggest that such laws do substantially more harm than good.
I think this is the first time I've read a comment from you and actually felt like it added a new perspective on the issue. I hope you don't take that as an insult because it isn't meant as one. Do you think the problems you brought up are insurmountable? Because it seems like shifting the focus on to risk assessment for the fetus wouldn't be too difficult. I think you know that no one here is saying that their body isn't their own, but that they have a responsibility to the separate body growing inside them. If we make an exception here, it begs the question why we have murder laws in the first place, if it always comes down to people being able to do whatever they want whenever they want without consequence, like smoking and drinking while pregnant (there should always be consequences for that.) Do you think that if we created a culture where motherhood was praised more for the sacrifice that it is, and the government took a more active role in providing resources and support for people who might struggle with it, we could finally outlaw abortion? I feel a government has a vested interest in ensuring the next generation of citizens are happy and healthy, so they are able to contribute more later on. Do you think more people would be amenable to making these changes you referred to, and maybe people wouldn't feel the need to abort their children? If a woman didn't feel the need to choose between school or work and having children because she lives in a country that offers the assistance she needs? I feel like that's the progress we need.
There would be no need to outlaw abortion in that case, as almost no one would seek it out. Those policies would completely eliminate the abortions sought by women who desperately want the baby but can't afford it, or whose families shame them for their sexual sins, or for women abandoned by their partners. The only ones left to abort would be those who were raped and psychologically need to rid themselves of the demon-seed of the rapist (and that's a relatively tiny number) and the women whose babies have physical anomalies that are so grave the child wouldn't survive--or might cause maternal injury or death (again, relatively small numbers). Most abortions now come from women who are financially or socially unable to continue a pregnancy. I'd really love to see the conservative movement turn toward helping those women rather than trying to control them via the law. Isn't it always better to use incentives rather than punishments to effect social change?
I guess you could say the same about anything. Why make theft illegal, shouldn't welfare programs be enough to deter? Well, unfortunately no. There needs to be some sort of compromise that says "hey, abortion is wrong and needs to be outlawed, but we aren't going to leave you high and dry. You will now have plenty of sources of support, whether it's emotional or financial, that could ease the burden of carrying and raising a child." Because let's be real, pregnancy sucks. I know it because I've done it twice now. I know a big objection to this would be abusing the system for financial gain...but we already have social programs that have rules and guidelines that make sure the people getting the help actually need it. No system is perfect but it would be a start.
No, that analogy doesn't really work, as most people wouldn't qualify for welfare. It would be different if you'd said "universal basic income"--because then everyone would have a certain small amount of public money for food, shelter, survival needs. And yes, I'd imagine universal basic income would almost certainly reduce theft dramatically, as would free or low-cost drug treatment.
That's a fair point, and it certainly fits the analogy better, but I still don't believe that would solve any problems. Theft would still happen and still need to be illegal.
Your forgetting the childfree women who don’t want to be pregnant under any circumstance, no amount of free daycare , maternity leave etc will chance their minds . They will always want to end the pregnancy .
I'm going to assume you don't mean the first half of my comment.  ;) Yes, I do. I'd like to question your premise.  Most of the time, I need to remind my patients that it is reasonable to take on a small amount of fetal risk if it means significantly reducing maternal risk (for example, delivering cephalic/breech twins vaginally rather than by cesarean).  The focus already includes risk assessment for the fetus.  It's my job to help my patient achieve their goals, and one of those is (on L&D), delivery of a healthy baby. So do you mean instead that, in pregnancy, people would lose the ability to consent to and decline medical treatment, and instead somebody (who?) would advocate on behalf of the fetus to determine what was and was not appropriate treatment? Neither am I saying that you are saying that. I think that we need to abandon this thread of argument.  My views on fetal personhood and morality are so dissimilar to yours that I have fundamental disagreements with the above paragraph on every level (including how you combine periods and parentheses; in the above context it should be done like this).  (However, an entirely parenthetical sentence can be rendered like this.) I'm willing to elaborate if you're willing to approach it in a spirit of curiosity. "How can I destroy you?" you ask me?  I am happy to answer.  I try to destroy myself too. Two things to do: For people for whom motherhood is not appreciated, give them support.  Celebrate women like the Prime Minister of New Zealand, who just announced her pregnancy while in-office.  (Feel free to post that to /r/prolife!  Credit me.)  She will be taking a brief leave when she delivers, then her husband will stay at home with the baby while she returns to leading the country. Mandatory maternal leave (with a use-it-or-lose-it paternal component), free healthcare during pregnancy, free childcare... these are all things that will make people feel like they have more of a choice.  I want that!  Whenever I have a patient telling me they feel they don't have a choice, I stop and talk about how they do have a choice.  (On any subject, really.) The second thing, though, is that it's not enough to try and target just pregnant women.  Poverty is a serious medical condition, and treating the consequences of it (like poor social support, homelessness, or not being in a position to negotiate time to pump breastmilk at work) will always be more difficult than treating the root cause.  End income inequality.  Tax the rich and funnel the money to the poor.  I don't care how you do it -- massive government-works projects, pointless ditch-digging, cash hand-outs... money flows up in an economy. I could have free healthcare and six weeks' sick leave for every pregnant patient, and if their partner, their parents, and their siblings are all unemployed and living hand-to-mouth, they still will say it's not the right time for them. If you want my patients to stop showing up to the clinic saying they don't have a choice, that's what would change it. (Plus comprehensive sex ed, free access to LARCs, and while we're at it, let's get a male LARC sorted out.  Also I want a yacht.  Trust me, my having a yacht is an important part of the process.  Let me know when you have it ready.)
Well I will start by saying that I agree with almost everything you said. I, myself, am pretty damn poor and think all of those things would be excellent for everyone, including myself and my family. Then why would elective abortion still need be legal if we had all those things? We can put away the morality of abortion though since we do seem to disagree on it quite a bit. I hold the right to life at a much higher level than blanket autonomy. I can't see that changing. Side note though, I am on a mobile device so formatting and ensuring my punctuation is sound is not really a priority. As long as it's getting my point across in separating out my trains of though, it works. Most of the time I don't even both going back to make sure my ramblings are coherent to anyone but myself.
Because sometimes people would be pregnant and would not want to be pregnant. All induced abortions are elective, if the patient has capacity to consent to them.  Abortions are, broadly speaker, safer than carrying to term and delivering.  I am not prepared to require a stranger to take the increased risk of carrying a pregnancy to term.  Remember that you and I have different views on fetal personhood. Of course, "need to be legal" is an odd phrase, so perhaps you meant something different by it.  The question I answered is "why do I want it to be legal?" I'll not be nitpicky again.
You don't think a teenager who wasn't given proper sex education is a victim when she gets pregnant at 14? You are aware that sex education in this country is appalling right? Personally in my opinion that baby should be killed and the mother should be taught about better sex practices. Yea I said "baby". I don't think the pro-choice side should resort to "oh well it's not a sentient being". Call it what you want, to me it's a human and I don't believe it has a right to life. I would begin to think about outlawing abortion if and only if all abstinence only education is made illegal (in both public and private school, including religious ones) and proper sex practices are taught to ALL children in this country. To teach children archaic sex practices like abstinence only is a blight and shame on this country in my opinion. It disgusts me. Let's not even get started on rape... This is why I believe abortion should be legal, cheap, and readily available.
What 14 year old doesn't know that if you have sex, you can get pregnant?  They would have to be 100% retarded.  Literally, like window licking, no mental capacity.   I think you aren't giving young teen women enough credit. I got pregnant at 18.  I knew the risks.  In fact, I had asked my doctor 2 months before to get me on the pill and she denied it to me and lectured me on abstinence.   That was messed up. But, as a strong teen girl, I knew the risks and I accepted the responsibility of my actions and you know what?  My life is so much better because I kept my baby.   I was the first of my friends to get my Bachelor's Degree.   My child was my motivator, not a hindrance to my life in any way, other than partying too much. Humans are reproductively capable of having children at 13.  That's biology.  Science.  It's our culture that has put these age restrictions on young parents.   Do they need more help?  Maybe some, maybe not others.   There are plenty of women never able to handle motherhood at any age.   That's why there is Children's Protective Services. I think that there should be a few exceptions like rape--- but I mean actual rape and not "Drunk Regret", but abortions should never be elective, and most shouldn't be legal. Let's normalize birth control, and being a responsible human, not abortions.
Lol. Funny.
The problem I see is that in the vast majority of pregnancies the mother willingly took the risk and created that child. You create responsibility when you create the situation. Kind of like how parents have to pay child support.
Exactly, men don't get a choice in if their partner keeps their baby or not, but they have to pay child support for it.
Hey, rule 2 on the sidebar: The way I see it, when people post in /r/prolife they're looking for a specific set of views.
She was asking how the pro-choice mindset worked. I figured a pro-choice person should respond.

Another important bit: If the unborn child was not a life, why would the above human right be in place?
I'm quite sure their definition of "human" does not include a fetus.
I'm glad that there were people that didn't just say "I'm quite sure their definition of 'human' does not include slaves," but instead, pointed out that it should and subsequently fought for this inclusion.
Um, "their" definition? That's not how it works.

Lotta bitter brigadiers downvoting things, I see.

Hi pro-life Reddit. I'm very good at arguing against abortion, however I am quiet nervous to talk to others about it. I want to convince as much people as possible to be pro-life because there will be abortion referendum(8th amendment referendum) in my country(Ireland). Should I talk to friends, family and college friends? Did any of you do that, and if so how did it go? Should I use social media to convince people? What do you think the most effect way is to reach a broad audience?
Start with your social circle, family and friends. You can approach things differently depending on the person. Do they even know what abortion is? Are they more scientifically minded? Do they strongly defend the rights of the vulnerable? Are they deeply religious? Are they antireligious? Each of these poses a different perspective to appeal to. In my experience, a lot of people will respond better to emotional and sympathetic appeal more than logic. Then spread as much as possible on social media. Remember that to a broader audience, rhetoric is often more useful than argument and reasoning. Use pictures, keep things short and simple. Most importantly is to get over being nervous. Nothing that could happen to you is worse than not doing the right thing.
Thanks for the advice.
Rhetoric is useful to understand.  Some people have their self-image as being feminist or progressive tied up in their stance on abortion "rights".  If they can take the easy way out by using rhetorical tricks and language to get out of a reasoned argument, they will. That said, don't assume that they all have weak arguments.  The arguments may be flawed, but they can appear impressive unless you are prepared and know what they are. And... some people believe that "might makes right".  In their moral system, abortion is always fine because you only count if you can complain or affect them in some way.  You might never convince such people that a child has worth that is any greater than how much its mother is willing to fight for it. Needless to say, I find the latter case a little scary and also somewhat intractable.
Thanks for the feedback. very useful information, will keep it in mind.
This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.



Glad to hear. It's good that it isn't only religious but also a moral right so secular prolife doctors will be covered too.



Great speech!
This a fantastic example of how abortion has allowed us to ignore issues that seem too big to address, and how abortion never truly solves the problem. I'm glad that she shared her story.
Her speech was great, and her little one's small interruptions were adorable!
Hey, it's renal agenesis! I was just reading in the Green Journal (OB/Gyn's main journal in the US) about the treatment that she got, which is cool and should be part of counseling on this diagnosis. Link to article on ethical considerations of serial amnioinfusion: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29215523



I wanted to share it with friends who are swayed to look at a topic if Pope Francis is even mentioned. Truly I wasn’t all that jazzed by him speaking but I thought it could be a foot in the door to conversations of Catholic friends who went to the women’s march. I was bummed they didn’t attend One Life. Just trying to reach out.
That was the answer to my question, thank you!
Sarcasm or are you being real?
Clearly this person cares and probably a lot of other religious people. Don't be a dick.
But why?  It has bearing on neither theory nor practice.
You don't see how the Pope speaking at an event can possibly have any bearing on thoughts/practices of Catholics?
Catholicism may have been born at night, but it wasn't last night.
I'm not sure what that's supposed to mean.

When even explicitly pro-choice groups are saying this policy violates rights, you know they screwed it up.
I think the key line is “to mitigate the effects of any lawsuits.” They don’t care about the rights of pro-life Canadians.  They just don’t want to get sued into the ground.
This is such a discriminatory form which extends beyond just affecting prolifers. Abortion is so revered that some people will do anything to support it. Trudeau treats abortion like it’s a fucking sacrament. It’s just ridiculous. I really hope this comes back to bite them all in the ass.
Yeah. Y His response at the end of the.article is basically a total fuck you to any pro life groups, conservative churches... don't religious beliefs have protection? Argh.

I think it's great! Will be watching online, if someone streams it.
First to speak by satellite video. George W. and Reagan both called in. It's more about technology than anything else. Don't get me wrong, it's good to have our elected leaders paying attention, but let's not make this more than what it is.
As if we need a genuine misogynist to associate with the movement. Great PR /s
I'm thankful to have perhaps the most powerful man in the world on the side of unborn children. Pretty sad that people care about their hatred for him more than that.
He's proven time and time again he's an awful human being. There's no proof that he actually believes in the right to life for the unborn. Seems like he's doing it to keep his religious voter base.
Well he's doing a good job at that. Nice to have someone willing to work to earn my vote.
You mean lie to get your vote.
I don't know what you are talking about. I look at his record on pro-life issues and I am happy with it so far.
Fair point. Don't be surprised if, or more likely when, he turns against pro-life to better his agenda.
A lot less awful of a human being than the presidents who have expanded the murder of unborn children. So long as that's the alternative, his motivations are of secondary importance (and in fact I have no reason to believe he's not sincere). Your sentiment is a common pro-abortion tactic to get us to stop voting for the prolife candidate.
DJT did no favours by speaking. He's going to be long gone and the problem will remain.
Unfortunately, I don't believe Trump actually cares.
He may not, but he has been doing  a lot of good things for the pro-life cause anyway, so I am okay with that. Politicians' personal feelings don't matter to me - just their actions.
Actions speak louder than thoughts.
Then why would he do it? What do you feel is his motive?
Because it’s what his voter base wants to hear.  Have y’all not figured out yet that he just tells people what they want to hear?  Not to mention In the past he’s been pro choice.
But plenty of Republicans are voted in by staunchly pro-life voters and they never set foot at the march. I didn't vote for Trump and I didn't really buy his pro-life talk, but ... he's been surprisingly reliable on the issue.
He was pro choice until he heard an abortion story from a friend. He's been pro life since.
Necro-comment I know, but curious, do you have a source for this? Hadn’t heard this before.
Because I needed to be more ashamed of the hypocrisy in my movement than I already was...
It's so embarrassing that people would be happy about Donald "grab them by the pussy" Trump is associating with a movement already called anti-women.
Even if the March for Life were completely female (as in, only women were there), the pro-abortion side would still call it anti-woman.
Let's stick up for the movement that kills women in the womb, instead, and march along with the people that enable abusers of women like Hollywood.
No.
But they're obviously much more pro-woman than someone who got caught saying bad things.
Nope.
I actually felt physically sick when I heard about this. That’s not hyperbole.
Then you should look into that.
Nice this is good news for us

That sure was a lot of strawmanning and stereotyping about issues unrelated to abortion. To answer your question, it energizes the movement to have people in power support it. The "impact" on our lives is comfort in knowing less people are dying. I guess it doesn't affect most of us personally, but that's a terrible reason not to combat wrongdoing.
You know, I posted a question on r/christianity looking for guidance in finding a pro-life charity to volunteer for. I was looking for something that was focused on helping mothers and babies during and after pregnancy. Instead of a response with some suggestions, the pro-deathers verbally attacked me, berated my pro-life position, or sarcastically urged me to volunteer at planned parenthood. Only a couple pro-deathers actually wanted to help women who chose not to abort and their babies, rather than attacking the enemy position. So don't get all high and mighty, pro-deathers as a group don't care about women and children more than pro-lifers. By the way, there are conservative Christian charities that help women through all stages of pregnancy. Who help the impovereshed. Who help former sex workers. Who help prisoners and excons. Who oppose the death penalty and fight for humane prisons, a more just justice system, and social reform that address the socio-political causes of poverty and crime. They aren't perfect. They don't do everything right. But don't try to feed people that baloney about pro-lifers all being right wing or right wingers only caring about the unborn. It's simply not true. What is true is that if you love someone you don't murder them, so if you love the poor, and I have been poor, you won't commit genocide against them.
He should leave a proposition to ban abortions instead. The republicans have majority in both chambers.

I'm OK with anti-abortion if they use pro-abortion for the other side. It is ridiculous to use pro-choice and anti-abortion
Exactly. Pro-choice is a kind euphemism so the pro-abortion crowd can have blissful ignorance on what it is they are supporting. It's like saying you're pro-choice on the death penalty, or pro-choice in torture, or pro-choice in war.
Ugh, I hate the phrase "pro-choice" because it completely ignores the choice of the child. "Pro-life" is okay but very ambiguous. I'm not sure "anti-abortion" would be a good phrase to replace it though, as most pro-lifers do support abortion if it threatens the mother's life.  Perhaps a better phrase set might be "pro-elective abortion rights" and "anti-elective abortion rights"?
Pro-choice is also stupid because choice is such a broad term. (You can literally choose anything. Beer or wine. Steak or fish. Etc. It's stupidly broad.) I'm OK with your terms, but drop the "rights". I don't think it's fair to say abortion is a "right" in any capacity.
I see what you mean on the "rights" part.
It's ridiculous how uniformly biased the mainstream media is. I get why it makes people believe in conspiracy theories.
Anti-abortion I can live with, though I would obviously prefer "pro-life." Anti-choice is just stupid.   It's a completely inaccurate term made up to avoid the actual content of the abortion debate by completely ignoring the other side's actual position.
If they call us "anti choice" does that mean we can call them "anti life?"
I've started saying pro-death.
What about pro legal abortion and anti legal abortion? Or pro human fetus rights and anti human fetus rights.
Just get rid of the word abortion and all is well.  The word itself IS the language war.  It's a euphemism.  Abortion means murder.  Call it anti-murder.  Pro-life is not needed.
I feel like that wouldn't make it any less of a war.  That and they would say:  "Murder is already illegal, and you can't murder a clump of cells".  The usual dehumanization tactics.
The Guardian is a left wing British paper , it will naturally use those terms .

Nice speeches. I hope that they will follow through.
Is he being sincere about this or is he doing this simply to appease his voters?
Seems pretty sincere, but either way we're much closer to getting a Nationwide Pain Capable abortion ban.
He’s done a bunch of prolife things already so to me that’s what counts.
Sincerity and representing the beliefs of your voters aren't mutually exclusive.

I think one thing prochoice and prolife people should be able to agree on is that if a baby can survive without the mother then it's definitely wrong to kill it. Medicine keeps pushing the viability date up, so eventually we'll be able to take barely formed fetus out of the mother and put it in a tank to grow. That should make abortion illegal, making prolife folks happy, and prochoice people should be happy women aren't forced to carry a baby in them.
Unfortunately I've had plenty of people argue that it's immoral to allow born-alive micropremies to live because they will probably have cognitive impairments. They'll just switch from the 'it is using a woman's organs to live so it's okay to kill it' to 'it will be mentally retarded anyway so it's okay to kill it'.

Because their is no other situation where one's desire to kill another supersedes the other's right to life (exception self defense). Some points that apply to your question. The right to life (or not be killed) supersedes the right to bodily autonomy in any other scenario. Consensual sex assumes parental responsibility. Negative rights requires inaction (as in you can not commit an action that kills) while positive rights require action (as in you must feed your child due to parental responsibility laws). To make it easier think of it this way, conjoined twins can not kill each other (even if one is more dependent on the other) because each has the right to life (or the right to not be killed) and this requires inaction from the siblings. But unattached siblings do not have to donate organs to each other because that would require action. The exception to this rule is parental responsibility or duty of care which forces action on the part of the parent or caregiver. This also applies in the case of a pregnant mother. Hope this helps.
I had a pregnancy raped into me. I became severely suicidal so this procedure was my self defense. My health drastically improved after the abortion.
While that is a terrible situation, killing an innocent child is never justified.
I am sorry that happened to you. No one should have to go through that. I wasn't referring to your case but cases where their was consent.
The vast majority of prolife folks are okay with keeping abortion legal in extreme scenarios if we can outlaw the rest. Most abortions have nothing to do with rape or medical danger.
I don't think anyone here believes that the baby's life is more important than the mother's. Both are equally imporant, to me. But don't you see a difference between a mother having to go through an unwanted pregnancy, and the fetus actually dying? Obviously, pregnancy is tough, even moreso when they mother doesn't want it, but if all things go well, the mother still has her life once it's over. The fetus never gets to live at all if they're aborted. I'd say the fetus is getting a much worse deal. That's why pro-lifers would rather try to help the fetus before the mother. To a pro-lifer, it's choosing between an innocent person dying, or someone else going through a really, really horrible 9 months (which can usually be avoided via contraception or abstinence, except in very rare cases) and dealing with the aftermath as well as raising a child or giving it up for adoption. Also, I hardly believe artificial wombs would help much. After all, so many pro-choice arguments boil down to that there are too many unwanted children already, so they'd be better off dead.
If I had to go thru with the pregnancy, I wouldn't have my life back. I would have been completely traumatized and broken
I get that. I would consider that one of the rare cases where both lives are at risk, which changes a lot. In a case where only one can live, then that's where I would consider both choices reasonable, though both tragic. If it's between choosing one living or both dying, then I would hope that the one is saved. I'm sorry that that happened to you.
That does not justify killing a baby.
You don't know that. Maybe you're stronger than you think.
Um, I didn't want to experience a raped pregnancy, period? I don't need to justify it. I don't need to feel shame for it, the rapist should feel shame. and i don't want to play games with my life, like, "lemme go through this HORRIBLY traumatic and painful experience JUST to see, on the off chance, that I like it, even though every instinct in my life - from my mental to physical health to my diet to my ability to concentrate to my increased suicidal thoughts - is telling me I won't like it"
No one's forcing the "carrier" to use their body to keep someone alive. They're just saying that the "carrier" cannot kill another living person.

There is no exchange of blood. So there's one thing. Second, bodily autonomy is always limited when it directly results in the death of another person. I cannot assert my bodily autonomy to fling a machete around in a crowd because it might kill someone else. The law tells me what I can and can't do with my body all the time. I can't take drugs, I can't drink and drive, I can't jump on top of someone's head. If you really did agree that a fetus is a person, you would see that they are protected by bodily autonomy laws just like we are. I can't kill my neighbor because i want to assert my bodily autonomy to drive a car into his house, why can I assert it to drive a suction tube up my uterus?
Because a carrier's body is literally used to keep the organism alive? Because there are painful symptoms and side effects that affect one's daily life, schedule, diet, routine, costs and bills, mental health, physical health? because it'll change the body possibly for the rest of their life? because the hours and possibly days long process of one of the most painful experiences in life, labor and childbirth, is a horrible thing to forcibly subject someone to? I;m coming from the place of being a victim of rape (jf you want to look at my post history) who got pregnant and from the mental anguish of the forced pregnancy almost committed suicide, until my mental and physical health drastically improved after an abortion to get rid of a pregnancy raped into me. The pregnancy was a painful experience I never signed up for. You can't compare swinging a machete to not wanting to give your body and health to make sure another being is born.
Yeah I know I've done it twice. Neither of them went well. I oppose elective abortion, which means I would be open to rape or health exemptions if it meant saving 99% of babies that would be aborted. So I don't disagree with you.
When I was a teenager and we were learning sex ed, we were taught never to have sex unless we felt willing to raise a baby. The entirr reason sex exists and is pleasurable is to encourage reproduction. Everyone knows that, or once knew it- sex is so skewed in our bizarro, pornographic, selfish culture. It's a fundamental fact. Agreeing to sex is implicit agreement to potential pregnancy. I used to be pro-choice, so I know how harsh that sounds. But it's true. Widespread hormonal birth control, on-demand abortion, and a culture that treats pregnancy and childrearing as burdens in the best of times has made us fear and deny that truth. But it's true.


I don't feel that the author gives a very firm answer to the titular question.
Yeah, I am not sure he hit the headline question on the nose. Our author is a Jesuit, and quoting the Bible, so I will introduce some religious argumentation in here where I would usually avoid it. The takeaway from the article is that in the abortion debate, "winning" is less important than what I would call "witness".  That is to say that we not here to win "at all costs". We cannot accept legalized abortion because having it indicts all of society in the practice, even if we personally decide not to permit the procedure. There is a strong push to not only improve access to abortions, but also have them paid for out of the taxpayer's pocket, as well as promotion of the practice as we have seen with the California and other initiatives that attempted to require presentation of that option by law.  In short, that all means that tolerance cannot be permitted of the practice of legalized abortion.  Numbers may fluctuate, but it will likely never reach zero. Having said that, there seems to sometimes be an idea that we must "win".  From a religious perspective, even a child who is the victim of an abortion can have a good end, in the hands of the Creator. So, we need to understand that if we must step over the line to win, then we must accept temporary defeat to avoid that.  We must pull up the field and replant it in better ground. A recent example is our current President.  I don't particularly like him, and I don't really think he's doing a particularly good job in office. What he has done, however, is seeming to take a strong pro-life position.  While I believe that this is merely him pandering to us, many of whom are considered part of the conservative base, I cannot argue that getting a better Supreme Court justice pick and better regulations in place isn't hurting our cause. Nevertheless, if it is found that he has actually done criminal acts (and I am not saying he has) or if he leads the USA on a path that is morally reckless, then we may need to step back and choose a new candidate, even if that candidate may lose to the other side. I'm not an Impeach Trump person.  And I actually have seen nothing but fevered hopes from the other side that he can somehow be dislodged before his term is up, but I can also say that I wouldn't be surprised if he was caught doing something wrong. If he is caught doing something that is truly reprehensible, then I think we would need to assess our moral responsibility and perhaps choose another path forward, even if it is a temporary step backward. So, to love our enemies, I think it means that we must consider their welfare as much as that of unborn children in the overall scheme of things.  If the result of fighting a single minded battle for the end of legal abortion is, for instance, a leader intent on  foreign war, criminal activity or tyranny, then we need to step back from that line.  If all doubt is dispelled about those intentions, we need to understand that our fellow citizens are people too, and they deserve our concern.
Hear, hear.  Single-issue voters have given us many issues.
That said, the death of hundreds of thousands of innocent children per year is a hard issue to not be single issue about.  There is almost no Democrat that I can even consider voting for, especially since the Democratic platform demands repeal of the Hyde Amendment and other points I cannot agree with. But I can envision a situation that could be worse, at least theoretically, and that bad situation will find firm rooting in the idea of "winning" over doing the right thing for everyone.  We may be right about this issue, but that doesn't make us incapable of grievous errors in other situations.

That is the narrative.  Most members of the media would prefer to portray the pro life movement as negatively as possible.  That’s why they use that term to further their narrative.
It really is. I noticed this just now on my Google Pixel's suggested feed. Specifically searching for pro life returns nothing. Our movement is now called anti abortion. I'm so disappointed with Google. They should be better than to color things like this.
They have been doing that for a long, long time. They're simply returning to it again this year.
Is it somehow derogatory to refer to opponents of slavery as abolitionists or as anti-slavery because those are negative term? Should I be calling them pro-freedom instead? Am I otherwise furthering the anti-freedom narrative?
It might be more comparable to calling them "anti property rights" or something. "Anti abortion rights" is a loaded term used to imply that abortion is a right.
Exactly. The main problem with this new phrasing is that by calling it “anti-abortion rights”, you are assuming there ought to be a right in the first place. Anit-abortion, while applying a negative tint to an otherwise optimistic term (pro-life) isn’t misleading, while “anti-abortion rights” is quite misleading.
How on earth are they comparable? Abolitionists are not anti-property rights. The pro-life are anti-abortion rights. In the United States, a legal right to abortion exists. I’m opposed to it.
They are against the right to own slaves, a type of property. The "anti property rights" name implies that people should have a right to own slaves. Likewise "anti abortion rights" implies that people should have the right to an abortion. Yes, as did the legal right to own a slave in the past. Just as people argued that people should not have that right, we should now be clear that people have no right to an abortion, and the law should change to reflect that.
Abolitionists are not opposed to the right to own property. They’re not anti-property rights. They’re opposed to slavery. They’re not even just anti-slavery (plenty of anti-slavery folks did not support abolition). They’re for the legal abolition of slavery. Yes, people have no moral right to abortion, which is why I oppose the legal right to abortion (plenty of folks, in contrast, will say that it’s morally wrong, so they’re anti-abortion, but it shouldn’t be illegal). I am anti-abortion rights. That term does not imply that such rights should exist, not even that they do exist (which again, they do), only that some people oppose them in principle.
I think what they meant is that the other side would use loaded and vague terms to make a reasonable issue appear as one side trying to go after another person's basic rights. Just a tactic to make their own side more attractive since they are trying to "protect people's rights."
Well, they are trying to protect people’s rights! But if you’re operating on the assumption that all possible rights are good, you’ve got a more foundational problem than the abortion issue.
The confusion lies in the analogy. While property rights extended to things beyond slaves at the time (and should have never extended to include humans in the first place), abortion “rights” apply only in this scenario. The analogy is useful for basic understanding and clarification, but not useful if you try to do a full analysis because these are two very different issues.
For basic understanding and clarification of what?
Of why using “anti-abortion rights” can change the narrative. Examining how changing terms in another context can change a narrative can sometimes help you understand how changing the terms in this context can have the same effect on your perception of a group.
“Anti-abortion rights” is just a neutral and clear description of my position and the position of those in the march for life. We’re  opposed to abortion rights. This is only framing the narrative in that, you know, it’s presenting it accurately.
Well, you could say the abolitionists were anti-private property using the same logic we throw around when we say pro-death, pro-murder, anti-choice, etc. Both sides do it. It’s an immature attempt to avoid discussing the actual issue and just write the opponent off.
Oh sure you could, and yeah, that would be silly. Pro-life and pro-choice aren’t much better, but they’re in common use, so whatever. Anti-abortion rights is just a clear and accurate description.
"Anti-abortion" is against abortion - the act itself. "Anti-abortion rights" is against abortion being a right - not against the act, against it being a right. The focus has been removed from the evil act, and that is why we don't want to use that term.
Are you or are you not opposed to the legal right to abortion that exists in the US? Plenty of pro-choice are "anti-abortion." They think abortions should be reduced, but that they should remain a legal right.
I mean, the pro-life term has been in use for decades.  Why is there suddenly this misapprehension of what it means in the context of abortion? When we talk about being pro-life, we're talking about being pro-life in the context of the abortion debate.  The same reason that pro-choice is intelligible, as it is also used solely in the context of the abortion debate.
For one, the term pro-life is needlessly opaque. It constitutes a challenge for English language learners. Not insurmountable, sure, which is why I have no problem using it most of the time. But I also have no problem using “anti-abortion rights” because, well, that’s what I am. People equivocate with the term pro-life all the time, even with anti-aborion. Haven’t you heard that the pro-life aren’t really anti-abortion because we don’t favor policies that are supposed to reduce the frequency of abortions, or because making it illegal wouldn’t reduce it anyway? Which is all beside the point because I think murder should never be a legal right to begin with. So, anti-abortion rights.
So, let's be clear here.  Morally, abortion does stand shoulder to shoulder with murder, but as I just pointed out to someone else, it may well be homicide, but since it is an unfortunately legal homicide, it's not technically murder. Will I start telling protesters to change their signs because of that? No way. That's because the reasons that most murders are considered unlawful also apply to abortions.  They are killings that not only benefit the killer materially, but that is their purpose.  By and large the overwhelming use of abortion-on-demand is to simply permit the easier maintenance of a certain a standard of living by the perpetrator.  The moment that child is born, no one would doubt that is murder. In a perfect world, where people would not use exact terminology against us to create negative connotation, we might well just say "anti-abortion" exclusively.  But in a world that is run by rhetoric, it is important to maintain a message that is not only accurate, but also rhetorically useful.  And sometimes, that means we trespass on a more general term. Nevertheless, confined by context, there is no problem using that general term in this instance.  It is still descriptive and useful, with those reservations. Are we anti-abortion?  Sure.  But we're pro-life for the same reason that the pro-choicers don't want to call themselves "pro-abortion", it prevents our argument from being mischaracterized as an undue restriction on someone's rights. I tend to be very much for people's individual rights, so it is important for me (and others) to emphasize that I am not of a mind to place restrictions on people that certainly can affect their standard of living unless there is a much higher concern involved.
“Murder” does not refer only to a crime. It’s not only a legal concept. Since we’re talking about a situation in which abortion is a legal right, you must know the sense of murder that we’re using, or else you think we’re very stupid. I’m not using “murder” rhetorically. So I’m not sure what your point is. There is nothing to be misconstrued about anti-abortion rights. Anti-reproductive rights, sure, but not anti-abortion rights.
I spent an entire paragraph explaining that I understand why it is being used, so I certainly don't think anyone is stupid, and I explained why I support the use of the term rhetorically, and in detail. Nevertheless, murder is a specific term which has a specific definition. My point is that, just as abortion is not technically murder, but still a valid term to use, pro-life can be general as term, but is still valid and instructive in the specific context we are using it.  It also serves an important rhetorical usage in the forum of debate. "There is nothing to be misconstrued about **anti-**abortion rights." See what I did there with the bolding? You just put the words anti and rights in the same sentence where you described our position. You also put the words "abortion" and "rights" together.  So you are framing the argument the way the pro-choicers want it framed: its all about someone's rights. Rhetorically, people who are very inclined to care about individual rights see "abortion" and "rights" together and they conflate the loss of legalized abortion with the loss of some "right".  So, if you're anti-abortion rights, you sound like you are for the restriction of some right. Also, the "anti" prefix makes the argument sound negative, as opposed to positive.  That's why both sides want to be "pro" something. Saying anti-abortion isn't inaccurate, but this is politics, and people who don't do the actual investigation on their own (ie. most voters) consume their political positions in soundbyte sized chunks.  You need to get the most across with the least words.  That means even the words have to be carefully worked out for connotation lest the terminology itself give rise to some idea of being "anti-rights".
What you did was explain that abortion is not “technically” murder as if I was somehow mistaken about the legal reality. And again, I’m not using “murder” rhetorically. When I say that abortion is murder, that’s a statement of fact. You know I’m not talking about a legal concept here. There’s no reason to think that I am. That’s not really how words work. Certainly not this one. Is it wrong to say that Cain murdered Abel, since after all there were no laws on Earth at the time? You can prescribe the use of words in some contexts, like a legal one, but we’re not in a court of law, are we? I don’t recall taking issue with “pro-life.” But I also don’t care about rhetoric. Yeah. It is about someone’s rights. Mothers have a right in the United States to kill their unborn children. I think they shouldn’t have that right. I’m anti-abortion rights. What could that mean except precisely what it does mean? People can be upset that I have that opinion. They’re going to be upset about it whatever I call it. I’m not going to hop on the euphemism treadmill as if that will really get me anywhere. Any mildly intelligent person can understand my point of view. You can treat human beings pragmatically as dumb animals who need to be duped into doing the right thing with rhetoric, but I don’t think that’s good for moral discourse. I think it’s corrosive to the idea of objective morality.
Dude.  Murder is literally a legal term.  Unless you're speaking rhetorically, it is by definition a legal concept.  Look it up.  Murder is unlawful killing.  It is a word that describes a crime.  Period.  It isn't "a killing I think is wrong". Most of the translations I have seen use the word "killed" for what happened.  Murder != killed. This is where I think you're wrong.  I don't believe they actually have that right.  I believe Roe v. Wade is bad law, because you can't manufacture a right like that from thin air and it certainly cannot supersede the Right to Life, even if it did somehow exist. There is no right.  There is merely a legal judgement that manufactures a false right from thin air.  I believe your position plays into the hands of people who are attempting to validate that incorrect position.
You’re talking as if I’m a moron again, but you know, I’m not yet convinced of it. Keep at it, I guess, and we’ll see. You know what else is a legal term? “Bail.” But if I say “Thanks for bailing me out of that awkward conversation!” or “I need help bailing the water out of this boat!” am I using it nonliterally or rhetorically? No. Bail has a few nonlegal senses as well, which are related to the legal sense, but the legal sense is not the be-all and end-all. You didn’t answer the question, though. Well that’s too bad if you don’t want to engage with the reality of our legal system. But I think you’re making the same mistake you made before. You know exactly what I mean when I say that mothers have a right to abortion in the United States, but you’re talking as though I meant something else. That’s a rhetorical move. Bravo, I guess, but I don’t think I’m as impressed with that stuff as you are.

"Anti-abortion" or "anti-abortion rights" has been the standard for mainstream news sources for years now. The terms aren't inaccurate but they often characterize the other side as "pro-reproductive rights" or "supports reproductive rights" which IMO is a bit one-sided. I'd prefer it if they'd occasionally use something like "pro fetal rights" rather than always presenting the pro-life side as opposing rights.
I’ve seen “anti-abortion” before, but “anti-abortion rights” I have only seen recently.
So call the "pro-choice":  "pro-murder" "pro-death" or "anti-life" movement. By their own insufferable measures it should be just as fair.
I haven’t seen any mainstream media company use those terms. I’m seen them interview people who say that stuff, but I’m not sure you’d be able to find examples where anchors or writers use the terms themselves or use them consistently within their work.  If you did find one, I’d disagree with their use anyways because I think calling the other side “pro-murder”, etc. paint the pro-life camp as a negative campaign, when it ought to be positive and optimistic. We don’t want women not to have choices, we just want to elevate the status of the unborn.
Let me be clear I myself would never use that language. I'm simply pointing out the hypocrisy of the pro-choice individuals that deign to use fallacious terms against the pro-life movement.
Whenever someone says pro-death or pro-birth or anti-choice they immediately get a downvote from me for being an insufferable shit. If you aren’t even mature enough to use terms without being an ass you probably shouldn’t be in any political discussion. I’ll downvote my side for it as fast as I will the other side.
You underestimate the power of words and labels. If you can define the terms of a conversation, you already have the upper hand before you've even started talking. In a battle to win over an entire population, an entire culture, the words and labels that get used are important aspects not to be dismissed or overlooked easily. Maybe you can see through them, but for someone less-informed on the matter, simply hearing one side in a positive light and the other in a negative light can be enough to sway their opinion.
Who cares? The pro-life are anti-abortion rights. That’s kind of the point.
Anyone who knows anything about optics cares. You never want your views to be described as "anti" anything, even if accurate, because that carries negative connotations and biases people against you.
Cool, thanks for assuming I don’t know anything about optics. 👍 I find that super convincing. I guess that’s why so many people think anti-discrimination laws are bad or why they’re afraid to use antibacterial soap.
Sorry if my response seemed confrontational but based on your last reply it's pretty clear you really don't understand much about optics anyway.  We don't call Martin Luther King, Jr. an "anti-discrimination activist", and hand soap selection isn't a political decision.
lol, do you think for some reason that NPR's job is to present your opinion in the most favorable way possible? No, it's not. They're trying to do it in the most neutral way possible. Is the prefix "anti-" derogatory? No, of course it isn't. That's ridiculous. Is it less super positive than pro-life? Sure. But NPR is not a pro-life newsletter, is it?
Lemme guess, you think NPR is a strictly neutral outlet with no noticeable bias whatsoever?
Surprise, surprise, you didn't answer my question or address my point at all. I'll copy and paste it here in case you just missed it. I'm sincerely interested in your answer. And if you want to say that NPR is displaying bias on the issue, I'm certainly happy to see the evidence you have of it. It'd be a lot more interesting than what I'm seeing here.
The way you presented your question made it sound rhetorical. Of course it's not their job to present my views favorably.  It's their job to report the news.  However, everyone carries implicit bias, including reporters, and this is easily seen in the OP.  "Anti-abortion" has never been the widely accepted name of the pro-life movement except to its opponents.  Even this subreddit respects that the opposition is known as "pro-choice", not "anti-fetus", "anti-life", "anti-responsibility", or any other number of loaded terms.  I read NPR news regularly and frequently see examples of implicit bias like this.
NPR does not use either "pro-life" or "pro-choice" as a matter of policy.
That's a weird policy. I looked it up and found this extra detail: I wonder why they didn't provide an "anti" equivalent for the pro-choice side.  Maybe they couldn't come up with anything that didn't sound loaded. Regardless, "anti-abortion" still carries a negative "anti" connotation, and it's far from the only instance of subtle left-leaning bias I've seen on NPR.  Maybe they've just been trying to dance around buzz words this whole time? I looked up their policy:

Being called "anti"-anything usually has a negative slant. Being called "anti-(something)-rights" has a particularly negative slant, even if it's technically true. Case in point--even something like slavery, which pretty much everyone agrees is evil, can't avoid this phenomenon. People who were against slavery were widely known as "abolitionist" rather than "anti-slavery." The ones stuck with the "anti" label were the ones who were pro-slavery, "anti-abolitionists." "Anti-abortion-rights" is a biased label that paints the pro-life movement negatively.
Like anti-smoking or anti-discrimination or antibacterial? I’m not really picking up any bad vibe. Why? Because all possible rights are good? I don’t feel that way. That doesn’t make any sense at all to me. Maybe you have this negative impression, and that’s fair, but people can have all sorts of impressions of all sorts of things. I just don’t see the reason for concern, although certainly I won’t make you use this term yourself. Why are we assuming that this label is being applied in malice when it’s 100% accurate?
It's kind of like the pro choice crowd wants to be called  the "pro choice" movement instead of the "anti-saving-innocent-unborn-babies" movement. It's basic PR. Anyone with any experience in advertising/marketing could explain and understand this.
Well it’s not much like that, since we’re actually opposed to abortion rights. They don’t think of the fetus as an unborn baby at all, and are generally happy to make that distinction for you. It’s a false distinction, but it’s what they believe, so they’re not “anti-saving-innocent-unborn-babies.” I don’t know why so many people here are so squeamish about being called “anti-abortion rights.” Abortion's a reprehensible thing, right?
Not everyone in the pro life community is against all abortions. Some are ok with rape exceptions, medical exceptions and a variety of other things. It's quite a diverse community as far as beliefs go. Some are religious, some are not, ect. So anti-abortion isn't the best blanket term for the movement in that way, to start. Next, this is a case of opponents of a cause trying to frame that cause in a way they feel will reflect in negative fashion on that cause, PR-wise. Given the way the left has worked so diligently via the press and media, and largely succeeded culturally speaking, in portraying abortion as the very flagship of women's right as a whole, they are right to think that this term will reflect more negatively on our cause than the term prolife. So it's actually exactly like if the entire pro-life movement suddenly started referring to the pro choice movement by calling them "anti-saving-innocent-babies." It's not about what people inside the movement think of themselves, or are actually supportive of, it's about portraying them (your opponents) in as negative a light as possible, to your side's advantage. When advertising anything, you have no choice other than to operate as best you can to your  side's advantage within the cultural climate you've been given because that's where the consumer, or potential supporter, is going to be coming from. Like I said before, it's basic PR, and anyone who's spent any time in marketing and advertising understands this concept. Hell, anyone who has ever watched more than a handful of political attack ads from one candidate to another understands this concept. You call yourself whatever the fuck you want, personally, but if you can't/choose not to understand basic PR of why the movement may choose to coin itself differently than you do personally given cultural climate, that's more on you at this point than anyone else here.
Do they believe in a constitutionally protected right to abortion as an extension of the right to privacy as it’s framed in the US? Because that’s what I’m pretty sure everyone is talking about in the US when they talk about abortion rights. And we’re against such abortion rights. What’s that make us? Anti-abortion rights, I’d say. This whole argument is embarrassing. Do we need to feel constantly victimized by the media or something?
If that's all you took away from my comment, I'm going to have to assume you're willfully ignoring the rationale that, at this point, multiple people have repeatedly explained to you regarding this PR semantics issue from various different angles. There's not anything I can do to continue this conversation, given that. If you need someone to give a more in-depth explanation of effective advertising, marketing phrasing and the rationale behind them, you're just gonna have to go take a couple business advertising courses at a college or something, because I've done all I can, (or am willing to) here. Lol Feel free to call yourself whatever the hell you want, personally, but don't expect everyone to join you in it.
I’d be interested to know where I said anyone should join me? I didn’t say that at all. I did say I have no trouble using the term pro-life, and I describe myself that way all the time. You’re reframing this discussion in kind of a bizarre way. I’m not the one who’s been having so much trouble keeping arguments straight. What’s really at issue is the paranoid delusion that the spooky MSM is out to get you at every turn. Because that delusion is being used to manipulate you. Seriously, when you feel like actually neutral, accurate descriptive terms are biased, you need to think things over a bit. Acting like “anti-abortion rights” is biased is an embarrassment. It makes us look stupid.
Well, all you've been doing in this entire thread is questioning why other people aren't comfortable using the same phrasing as you to describe themselves within the context of the pro-life cause. If you need more explanation than has already been given, you're gonna have to head to a business advertising course and let them explain marketing phrasing and the rationale behind it to you, at this point. (unless you're just interested in concern trolling, which is the more likely candidate)

The problem is that there is no right to an abortion.  There is currently a right to be able to provide abortions, but you have no right to recieve one and you ought not to have any right to provide one either.
There is no "right to abortion." That is a misunderstanding of rights. There is a right to life. Currently there is a legal privilege to abort, which violates the right to life. But no, there is and never can be a "right to abortion."
A mother’s decision to abort her child is legally protected in the US right now, as encompassed by the right to privacy. It is something she is entitled to in effect under the law as it is now. It’s a legal right. Even if it were not the case, I would still be opposed to it, and that would make me still anti-abortion rights.
No, it’s not. In order to have a right to recieve an abortion, then you would have to mandate that doctors give abortions. Younhave a right to buy an abortion, but if you can’t find someone who will provide it or you can’t afford it, you have no right to compel someone tonprovide the proceedure. In the same way, I have a right to buy a hotdog, but if there’s no stand around or I don’t have money, I can’t just force McDonalds to make me one.  In that way, there is a right to provide abortions, but not to recieve one.
I believe I understand what you’re saying, but I don’t think you understand what I was saying. I never said the mother has a right to an abortion at no cost. You’re playing with language here and I really can’t see the reason for it. If I say that I have the right to bear arms, do you understand me to mean that I’m entitled to have guns provided for me?
You do have a right to receive one though...according to current US Law.
does it come as a surprise to you that many in the pro-life community want to diminish the legal right to abortion?
There is no right to an abortion, only a right to provide abortions. Additionally, this should not be a legal right anyways.  When you put it that way, any law that restricts movement can be consider abolishing a right of some sort.  If you make it illegal to jaywalk, then you’re restricting a person’s right to walk across the middle of a street.
So if abortion was completely outlawed, would a woman have the right to provide her own abortion?
But you’re not pro-life.  Sure you want babies to be born despite circumstances, but when they grow up impoverished and/or. Uncared for, y’all tend to be the first to shit on them.  Given that y’all tend to be harder on crime and less understanding of the poor.  So you’re pro-life to a very narrow extent.

A phrase taken from George Orwell's book Animal Farm, for the curious.






Important to note: According to the report cited in the article, CO's 20-24 year old abortion decline from 2007-14 was 18%. According to the CDC, the 20-24 year old abortion decline in the whole country during the same time period was 27%. So whatever edge CO had with teen abortion rates was balanced out with less edge for 20-24 year olds, and that group was just as likely to receive LARC through CFPI as teens. This is important because 20-24 year olds make up a bigger share of abortions than teens. And the overall abortion rate for women aged 15-44 in CO fell at the same rate as the whole US from 2011-14 according to AGI. So I'm not sure what lesson pro-lifers are supposed to take from this. That a LARC program will possibly maybe decrease the teen abortion rate somewhat but we don't really know for sure and make no discernible difference in the overall abortion rate or the rate for women in their 20s. That's nothing to write home about. If people want to talk about the benefits of contraception in reducing abortion, that's fine. But they're going to need a much better study and results before demanding that pro-lifers embrace free LARC programs, especially since there is evidence (contrary to the article's claim) that IUDs have postfertilization effects.
I am completely okay with people taking hormonal birth control if they want to. I can't take it myself, because every kind I've tried makes me suicidal, but if other people can take it, cool. BUT. I also think birth control can create a false sense of security, especially for teens. A teen that would otherwise have abstained from sex over fears of pregnancy, would now feel more comfortable doing so with BC. The problem with that is twofold. The chances of a teen taking BC correctly is not very high, making the rate of failure go up significantly. Now a person who would never have been pregnant (because they would not have had sex without BC, or maybe would have used a condom) has a higher chance of becoming so. It is much easier to forget your pills than it is to put a condom on incorrectly. When my sons get older, and we have that talk, I will make sure they know to always use a condom if their partner tells them they are on HBC. Leaving it to chance that they take it correctly is not worth the risk. STDs. Hormonal birth control does absolutely nothing to protect you from getting or giving STDs. Someone may think "oh it's ok, I'm on birth control." Then find out later, they aren't pregnant, but now they have syphilis! Teens need to be educated about this so they don't find themselves with a case of herpes, because their local planned parenthood threw some BC pills at them and said "have fun!" And that is why I think we should be encouraging condoms way more than HBC. But also like the other comment said, teen abortions may have decreased by more than the country's average for a time, but other groups did not.
Lots of studies have failed to find correlation between providing (birth control and comprehensive sex ed) and increased sexual activity or risk-taking. It has always been my experience that groups encouraging hormonal birth controls are also strongly encouraging condoms, especially for young people.  I know I am. These studies aren't only looking at hormonal methods -- they also include the copper IUD as a method.

Trump's presence helps. I remember when the March for Life was basically ignored altogether by the media. It doesn't help the narrative.

This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.

How about remove morality and religion from it?  Let’s just be rational.  Most animal on the planet will abandon their weak or unwanted, because the survival of the child will be to the detriment of the rest of the family.  You can’t cry about abortion and then crap on them when they grow up impoverished and in high crime areas.  It hypocrisy.
Saying that most animals do something is not really a good argument for why humans should do that thing too.
But as human beings, living in a modern society, we aren't supposed to "abandon our weak or unwanted." The point is that we  are rational and we aren't like (other) animals or else say goodbye to old folks homes. Just throw em out back to die. Kill off any disabled family members while where at it. Infants too, since they can't do anything for themselves. Also, how do you know that we "crap on" people who grow up in less than fortunate situations? What you're saying might apply to a great many prolifers but it doesn't apply to me, being that I grew up poor. Using those kinds of arguments don't work because they are irrelevant when you come across someone who they don't apply to. And you'll come across many people like that on this sub and in quite a few modern pro life organizations.
Pro-life poor person who cares about helping children and women after birth here, too! Checking in!
You’re not rational though.  You’re making judgments based on some fairytale.

Good News!
A lot of people in this sub are desperate to see him as evil despite him being our greatest warrior at the moment
It's a pride thing. A lot of people swore up and down during the election that Trump was faking his pro-life commitments, that he'd change his tune if he won (which he never would), he was a Planned Parenthood supporter through and through. Add that to the Trump derangement syndrome, and the idea that he's done good things on this issue is impossible to cop to. It's not just eating crow, it's a crow buffet.
Evil performed while supporting a good cause doesn't negate the fact that its still evil. Also, nearly everything Trump has accomplished on the pro-life side is through executive power, which means its gone the moment a pro-choice politician regains the oval office.
Judges are not executive
Hence the "nearly"
Judges are most of it
Blame the Democrats in congress (who oppose any measures to restrict abortion in anyway).
The GOP controls both branches of congress and all 3 branches of government in fact. Sure, the Democrats were never going to support abortion restrictions, but they didn't support Trump's tax reform either, but the GOP managed to get that passed. Its all about what you prioritize, and what you are willing to spend political capital to get turned into law.
For abortion restrictions you need 60 votes in the senate. There are only 51 Republican senators and all Dems are pro abortion. Such laws passed the house fine but they can never pass the Senate until Dems are removed.
Where's the evil that he has performed as president? Saying mean things?
God almighty, everything terrifies LGBT activists. Net neutrality will hurt LGBT people most! Tax cuts are known to reduce white blood cell counts! Give it a freaking rest. Talk about drama queens. Anyway... Remember when everyone said Trump was just lying about being pro-life? I haven't seen a bluff this good since Reagan convinced everyone he was an anti-communist.
But...Trump is a villain right? That’s what CNN tells me.
You don't need CNN to know Trump is a villain. Just listen to the words that come out of his mouth.
Exactly.


And I do not just mean be more affective at shutting down abortion centers. How do you think that the ideas, rhetoric, and actions of the pro life movement could reflect its values in a better way?
Re classify abortion as a fetal homicide. If punching a pregnant woman is considered murder, then abortions should be a homicide
I think the pro life movement is already on that track. You may be criticizing government.
Promote and Support more Pro-Life Pregnancy Care Centers with our volunteering and donations. Providing this care helps women and children directly, while removing the need for Planned Parenthood at the cultural level. Some pro-life advocates are wonderful advocates for pro-life legislation, but forget the power of parallel cultural change in their own backyards.
I think this is a big one. Unfortunately, people on the pro-choice side are convinced that every single pro-life crisis center is the the stereotypical over-the-top religious, "here's a gross picture of a dead baby, ooh scary, now don't have an abortion, get out," brainwashing center designed to trick women and doesn't offer any real help. I don't doubt that places like that exist, as rare or common as they might be, but I know there are places that genuinely want to help women and babies, and that do it by offering the help and support that they need. I wish that people could see that there really are good places out there, and that they can be a perfectly viable replacement for PP clinics, just that they don't offer abortions. But right now it seems that people only believe that the centers are only one extreme or the other.
There’s 2 big things for me: We need to be upfront and honest with people about what abortion really is: Murder.  We do a disservice whenever we skirt around this fact.  Abortion is wrong because it’s murder, not because is yucky, and not because we think people should control their sex lives.  You can’t (or at least shouldn’t) legislate preference but It’s not a preference, it’s murder. We need to be careful with incremental legislation.   It’s well intended and it has saved hundreds of thousands of lives, but if Roe v Wade were overturned tomorrow pro life legislation is what would make abortion legal in a number of states.  A law that makes abortion illegal after say 22 weeks, also makes abortion legal before that point in the same way that a sign that says “No parking on Sundays” makes it legal to park Monday through Saturday.
Without incremental legislation, there is no vehicle challenging the status quo to get a case before SCOTUS.
Help prevent unwanted pregnancies in the first place by supporting contraceptives and elective sterilizations.
The face of the movement needs to change. Old white dudes get tuned out so fast. Abortion laws very much feel like another way women are being controlled which is why having women be more of the leaders helps communicate the message better. Having Trump be our leader right now and The_Donald being in this subreddit really hurts our appeal.
To be fair, I see a TON of women put forth as the face of the movement these days.
Right! We need to have someone the world actually respects. Placing that garbage bag as the face of what we're trying to accomplish is a horrible idea. As someone who used to be very pro-choice, and is pretty liberal in every way EXCEPT abortion, I know that having him on our side is actually turning people who are on the fence away. If I were still on the fence, it would be very hard for me to declare that I am pro-life because I don't want to be associated with him.
If I were
What if it was black women getting tuned out so fast? Would the solution then be to change the movement to a race/gender that people will respect? Sounds like the answer here is to confront people about their racist attitudes.
I don't really think it's that as much as is it women being sick of watching old men making a decisions on their life. It's something that they can easily use to discredit the argument because they can't attack it on its merits. It's misdirected, but it's a reality. We know that just because it's mostly men making legislation about abortion, that it doesn't make our view any less valid...but as far as pro-aborts are concerned, it's something they can use, that is effective, to help further their cause. It would be awesome if we had more women in positions of power speaking up for preborn babies. I think that's all it comes down to. Doesn't make it right, but it is what is happening. But I do have a feeling that if we shifted the leadership of the prolife movement, they would find some other way of discrediting them. So I'm not sure anything could change that.
I think the only reason they say that the "face" being male is seen as negative has to do with how the pro-choice side sees it. To them, the only person involved in an abortion is the woman. The resulting child, or the father, or anyone else is not involved in any way. In that case, why should they trust a man to know what that situation is like at all? They'll never have to deal with it, right? And even if they used to be a fetus at one point, that wasn't really them yet because it was just a lifeless clump of cells or whatever. It makes perfect sense to you and I why anyone should be able to have an opinion or stand up against these things. But on the other side, it is only and issue affecting women and therefore can only be understood by women (unless you're a woman like me and you disagree of course, because that makes perfect sense???). And as to the race thing, I think it just adds to the stereotype, it's just kind of there to exaggerate. Edit: Just to be clear, I don't agree with any of these things. I was trying to explain how I think the pro-choice side reasons on this.
Disconnect itself from the anti-LGBT movement and the anti-birth control movement. Most (obviously not all) vocal anti-abortion advocates (especially politicians) are also opposed to things like government funded birth control and gay couples adopting, which are things we should instead be strongly supporting.
This. Birth control prevents abortions, so why should we oppose it.
Some birth control is abortive.
This is why I hate this "two sides" crap in politics so much. It's so unlikely that someone would normally agree 100% with every issue their party stands for, but the two-party system makes it seem as if you have to. Of course I don't have any solutions myself, I don't know everything about how it all works, I'm sure there are some benefits, but I just wish it didn't have to be this way. I wonder what abortion laws in America would be like if the laws weren't decided by one extreme or the other. How much would we be able to come to an agreement on? If those stats saying most people in the US are against abortion after X point, or whatever, then would we have laws that reflected that too? God, I wish.
I think informing people about fetal development from an embryo into a baby is key. Those who support abortion think it's just a bundle of cells. How many people know that by three months, the unborn child is fully formed with a beating heart, and a fully functioning liver which produces bile that is removed through the placenta? Humanizing a fetus is key, because being pro-choice means believing in human rights, even humans who have not been born yet. Fetal development month by month: Stages of Baby Growth in the Womb https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WtDknjng8TA The next suggestion is going to be hard for people to hear, but the truth needs to be exposed, even though people are not going to be able to handle it. The Luciferians are behind abortion as it's the ultimate sacrifice of innocence and a sacrament. They actually have women called breeders who carry child for the purpose of sacrifice to Lucifer. Dutch Whistleblower: They Worship Lucifer, Sacrifice Children (Ronald Bernard) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e9mMdUGcRRw

Asshole.

Some people are monsters
Hasn't this already been posted?
It should be pinned
The miracle of life is truly amazing. How could anyone want to destroy it? Who is the enemy of life? Lucifer, and I don't know if you all have researched Luciferianism, but it's what the people at the top of the world worship. Seriously, not a joke, and they sacrifice children to Lucifer, sometimes even cutting the baby out of women, and then drinking the blood of the child in a black mass. For those that are not familiar with this, check out the Dutch banker who was asked to sacrifice children in the black midnight mass in order to join the group and further his career. This is what unites the people in the bank of international settlements which is above the IMF, which is above the world bank, which is above the central banks like the Federal Reserve: Ex-Illuminati Banker Exposes The Elite - In English Audio - Ronald Bernard - Part 1 https://youtu.be/cRuKmxQSPSw?t=18m15s

I'm glad that he has been mostly upfront and unapologetic for being prolife. If there's one thing to like about him, it's that he doesn't mince his words. Still disappointed that he didn't try to defund PP but he's done better than many US presidents.
He knows he's got the evangelical vote if they believe he's pro life and that's all he needs to do. Just like Clinton needed to be firmly pro choice. If he steared clear from the issue, the allegations about his sexual conduct might start to sway voters. (I bet he doesn't care at all about abortions personally)
I bet he doesn't care either, but if presenting a firmly pro life image means taking pro-life actions, then I will take it and be appreciative.
first president to adress march for life by video. Reagan and Bush both addressed by telephone or something iirc
Yeah, I remember being at a March when Bush did a phone in
Say what you will about other things, but Trump will truly stand up for life.
Oh man, I am not on board with this. First of all... Trump doesn't give a shit about unborn babies. He's pandering to his voter base and potential voter base so they'll keep supporting him. Second, Trump will further reify the left/right split around unborn babies' rights into more extremes. What I mean is that pro-life is already seen as right wing and extreme by a lot of society, so they dismiss it as absurd or even dangerous. Trump will further alienate pro-life moderates and potential pro-lifers as well as pushing away the non-christian and or non-white prolifers... There are a lot of people who aren't going to want to be associated with him. So people, especially people who are already on the fence or who only have a superficial connection with the subject, are going to be pushed away by this, thinking "if Trump is for it it's not worth my time, it's not for me". It's just going to create further division and disunity.
There are no pro life Dem politicans anymore. Party platform is 100% pro abortion and any Democrats who were genuinely pro life (not i'm pro life but #IStandWithPP dems like Joe Manchin and co) either left the party or are still deluded into thinking the Dem party is the same as it was 10 or 20 years ago.
It's worse. The 'pro-life' Democrats are strategically silent about the pro-abortion aspects of their candidates, and work overtime to undermine any pro-life politicians of other parties. The "Democrats for Life" function as a tool for the pro-abortion politicians. I do not believe this is accidental.

This could be said for most politicians... Like Putin, I'm not sure Trump is prolife for the right reasons (not say he isn't, just that I'm unsure) but I'd always prefer a pragmatic prolife president than a sincere prochoice president. Either way,he's making a good move. If people are against him, nothing he will say (even supporting abortion) will make them vote for him. But if he's supportive or even apathetic about abortion, much of his base will leave him because their only reason for choosing him will be gone. A lot of people voted for him not because they liked his personality, but because he would be less bad than Hillary in terms of unborn children.
I see where you're coming from, but if he isn't sincere, why trust him?  Speaking at a march doesn't actually do anything to save babies lives and in this case it seems to me that it hurts the cause.
His judge nominees do
He has already done a significant amount to help babies. I trust him to do what his voters want him to, even if that is his only motivation (for all I know he might be sincere, or not). Speaking at a march doesn't directly save lives, but neither does attending any demonstration. Their purpose is to influence public opinion and they do. It will save lives indirectly because he is strengthening his voter base (who mostly voted for him based on abortion, immigration type social issues) and helping to ensure that he will be reelected instead of a president who will promote abortion.
What has he done to help? I'd be interested to know, as I haven't heard about anything. I agree that demonstrations are meant to influence public opinion, which is one of the reasons I don't think he should be involved. I think his presence hurts public opinion and will keep away anyone who isn't a Trump supporter. But, I see where you are coming from. I might be wrong.
Just off the top of my head, he and his administration stopped US foreign aid funding for abortions, allowed states to deny PP funding and ended the contraception mandate to employers (relevant to prolife since certain types of contraception can kill an early embryo). He also appointed Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. There might be more but I'm not super into US politics. I'm not super happy with him, since he gave up a big opportunity to at least try to defund PP federally, but I'll acknowledge the good he has done. edit: this today as well. Very important if you see where countries such as in Scandinavia are going, firing doctors who refuse to perform abortions.
Thanks a lot! I don't know why I got downvoted for asking for clarification, but I appreciate it. I try not to follow the news especially re Trump because it's really stressful for me and Googling him just brings up a lot of stuff that I don't want to see, plus I'm not American so a lot of the in depth politics is lost on me. It's nice to see that he's done some kind of good in the world.
I didn't downvote you, but here's an upvote to balance it out :) I also tend to avoid the news because it never fails to stress me out.
Thanks haha. Here's to de-stressing!
Explain to me the picks he’s made then eh, he’s surrounded himself with pro life people, and has been a defender of life, from words to action, time for you to open you’re eyes and realized the good his administration has done for conservatism, that’s an undeniable fact
Whether or not his administration has been "good for conservatism" (whatever you mean by that) is irrelevant. Unborn babies aren't conservative or liberal, they're a lot more important than partisan politics, and I have no reason to believe their lives are being used as anything but pawns.
Keep in mind he's been pro choice in the past.
So was I.
Isn't that what we want? For pro-choicers to become pro-life?
Very true, but one can always change their views, and hopefully he only grows in his pro life views.
Don’t try and shatter his worldview, he’s clearly not open to opposing views.
It appears so my friend
It’s really sad that people can’t allow themselves to attribute any positive motivations at all to President Trump. They hate him to the core of his being. It’s also helpful because it completely discredits everything they say.
It’s so true, I love Trump, but I’ll criticize him when he’s wrong, I don’t expect someone to love him like myself, however if you’re unable to recognize the good he’s done then you’re blinded by the light
I am concerned about Trump myself and I didn't vote for either him or Hillary (there was a pro-life candidate I could vote for).  The few bits of applause he gets from me is for him actually acting as pro-life, even if I have some doubts that he really is. I wouldn't doubt that he's pandering to his base on this, but in this instance, his base has got it right. And yeah, I wish he'd worked to defund PP, but I'll take what I can get. Unfortunately, these small victories for pro-life are the calm in the storm before the midterms.  While the way districts are structured makes me believe that Republicans are not as vulnerable as they could be, the Republicans are still in for a wild ride in the midterms.
Pretty much. Trump only gives a shit about Trump. Never forget "Well, what are we going to do about this?" And I'm completely on board with de-coupling the pro-life movement from conventional left/right partisanship. It's going to kill us in the long-term if we saddle ourselves with the most morally bankrupt man in America who's cynically using pro-life voters for the sake of a wedge issue.
Yeah, you do that. Senator Schumer had a bridge to sell you
Decoupling the movement from partisanship doesn't mean refusing to acknowledge when someone does good.
I just wish I knew how. Abortion is one of those things that has people on such a hairtrigger. You have to talk through decades of intense cultural conditioning and ingrained reactionary emotions (on both sides) to even try to have a dialogue. I think abortion opinions are so foundational to people's sense of self and morality and political leaning that even knowing the other side exists seems like a personal attack. I feel like I don't fit in anywhere.
I've been thinking of registering with the American Solidarity Party, but like most third parties, it's pathetically minor and irrelevant to the point where its last nominee for president was a stage magician. Since it's virtually impossible to find a sincere politician that's both rabidly pro-life and rabidly pro-single payer, I just vote propositions and hope for the best.
Meh. Stage magician, reality tv host...are they really that different?
Maybe not the best spokesman, but it appears he’s actually taking action unlike some previous presidents. If you ignore everything he says and only watch what he does he’s pretty damn good
Perhaps he says what he does in order to accomplish what he does. Misdirection.
Trump was an articulate and intelligent public speaker in the 80s and 90s. Now his oratory is shockingly bad. It's a credit to him that somehow his way of speaking with Run on sentences and circular speech with a clear meaning connects with voters.
It’s too bad. Somebody who undermines the idea of objective reality isn’t much help for moral discourse.
Well said, and very true. If I wasn't already pro-life, I'd be inclined to ignore his message just because it came from him. Someone who has made it a hobby of turning lies into "facts" isn't going to win us any support.
I know some people don't like the pro-life movement being associated with such a disreputable character, but really, Ben Shapiro isn't THAT bad.
Wait are you saying that about Ben Shapiro or Trump?
It's the old bait-and-switch gag.
I got bamboozled
The ol' Reddit switcheroo?
Uuuum, all you have to do is look at the wins for the pro life movement over the last year, from awareness to achievements, I’m sorry mate but you are incorrect

I'm proud of men who stand up for the prolife cause. I know it's hard to stand up to the sexist belief that men aren't allowed to be against abortion.
"If you're a man you can't have a valid opinion about abortion unless you are for it." /s
"I support a woman's right to choose" pro-abort swoons "I believe abortion hurts women" men can have opinions on abortion
I was talking to a friend the author day and she told me how her father had been responsible for three abortion, and it made me realize. If any of those abortions had not happened, my friend would not exist because her fathers life would have been so different. Considering the randomness of conception, if someone has an abortion then later decides to have a kid, without the original abortion the kid would never had existed. Do you all ever think about this? Thoughts? Had abortion been illegal, a lot of the people we know and potentially even us would not exist. This thought just blew my mind. Does the first pregnancy deserve more right than the others? What about in the thought experiment where a woman had an abortion, then later had three children? Would you go back and reverse the first abortion even if it meant the other kids would never exist?
I think you’re thinking in circles.  Nobody has the right to kill an existing, innocent person.  If someone has conceived a child, that child has the right to exist.  If that child is killed, their rights have been violated, and that is a grave moral wrong. If another child is subsequently conceived, they also have the right to exist.  If they are not killed, their rights are respected and that is a good thing. However, you cannot prioritize the rights of a theoretical future child who may or may not ever be conceived over the rights of a person who already exists and is at risk.  Nor can you kill one person for the sake of some hypothetical future one.  No one can predict the future.  Don’t try. Nor do we need to worry about the “What if we could go back in time...?” either.  We can’t go back in time. The people who exist now, exist.  We should be concerning ourselves with them.
Remember the dead, but fight for the living.
No, I never think about that, because it's 100% irrelevant. The butterfly effect and the chaotic nature of conception means that pretty much every prior event has an effect on who gets conceived. Maybe there's a 12-car pileup on the highway, and as a result a couple has to take a detour. Arriving home just a few minutes later could change which of his sperm cells penetrates her egg first, resulting in a different child being born. If the slave trade had never happened, Obama likely would've never been born, but that says absolutely nothing about the morality of slavery.
I see what you're saying, but there are plenty of reasons, big and small, that could have caused a person not to exist had they been different. For example, if the egg cell that you came from just so happened to be fertilized by a different sperm cell, everything else being completely the same, you wouldn't exist. Just that tiny variation would have created an entirely different person, and you would have never been alive. Or what if, on the day you were conceived, your parents decided not to have sex for whatever reason? Or what if your parents never happened to meet to begin with? You wouldn't exist then, either. Is that scary to think about? To me it is. It's pretty crazy to think about. But does that mean that those changes were wrong, or that it was comparable to killing you? I don't think so. But let's think more about your example. What if your mom was married before she met your dad, but her first husband was murdered? Then she met your dad and eventually had you. Does that mean that the murder of your mother's first husband was justified or even good? In a way, his murder allowed you to exist. I hope this is all making sense. But my point is that plenty of things could cause someone to exist or not exist. That fact alone doesn't make those changes right or wrong. However, when you start talking about changes involving abortion or killing an innocent person (which, I, and most people on this sub see as the same thing), that's when it becomes a different conversation entirely.



Honest question: Is it desirable to have such an unpopular figure as a headline for your movement? Edit: Thanks for the downvotes! Sure shows me for asking an honest question.
For me it’s less that he’s unpopular, more that he’s a moral black hole.
I don't think people on the fence about abortion would slide to the pro-choice side because of Trump being opposed to it. Trump's pro-life policies are fairly well-known by this point (even if his track record regarding it can be described as spotty). I think the president speaking at the March for Life would mainly serve the purpose of energizing the pro-life base he's speaking to, even the ones that didn't vote for him. Controversial as he is, it's a pretty major figure to attend your rally.
Very well put, and a good honest answer to my honest question.
Its not the fact that you asked it, its how you worded it.  If polls could be trusted, Hillary would be President by 95% of the vote.  To answer your question, its not like he's going to make the abortion issue any more polarizing than it already is...
I'm not just basing my assumption on polls. And no poll said she would get 95% of the vote, don't be silly. The polls did however correctly predict that Clinton would receive more votes. They just weren't distributed in an advantageous way. But thanks for answering my question!
...What poll are you talking about that said Hillary would win by 95% of the vote? Are you just making stuff up?
I apologize, I misspoke.  Hillary was given a 95% chance of winning due to reliance on over sampled polls. https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-election-poll/as-of-last-week-clintons-white-house-chances-95-percent-reuters-ipsos-states-of-the-nation-idUSKCN12A1VK
Yes, some sites had her at that likelihood, that is correct.
Maybe cause his approval is edging up and is right around where Obama's was in the states that matter? Let's be honest, we're not getting pro-life shit passed. Also cause attention to the march for life is good? Also cause he's been doing more for this movement than any republican before him ever did.
What does that mean, states that matter?
Not CA or NY Not WY or ND states that decide elections
Absolutely, who really trusts polls anyway? Remember the pre-election polls?
Remember the election results for the popular vote?
Who cares? She underpeformed in the midwest, and overperformed in CA does that mean polls were good?
All it means is that more people wanted Clinton as president than wanted Trump. That's it.
State polls were off homie
Oh my God stop. I'm not talking about polls
Thankfully that’s not how Presidents are elected. Are you pro life? If no, why are you here? And you didn’t address the faulty nature of polls.
The issue of the electoral college is a long and complicated discussion that we don't need to go into, but the literal election is the best "poll" we have. Yes, I am pro life. But even if I wasn't, the answer is that I'm here to learn about and to discuss pro life issues. That's the point of this subreddit. Polls are unreliable, but from all the information that is available to me, I do not believe Trump is very popular over all. Just my best guess, and if your best guess says the opposite, they are still best guesses.
Let’s see how big of an applause he gets. I bet there won’t be any boos. What will you say then? “He stacked the crowd” probably.
Wait, a President making a speech to a crowd of supporters?  How has no one ever thought of that...
Obviously a crowd of pro life people is going to have a much higher density of Trump supporters. Similar to how most of my comments in this sub, though I try to be reasonable and respectful and support the pro life movement, are not being taken to kindly.
It's ok. Most pro-lifers who dislike trump get down voted...I've been there.
I really worry about how polarised this is getting. I can be pro-life and not be pro-Trump.
Not according the the pro-life Reddit. I thought there wasn't supposed to be any " you can't be pro-life if you don't support......." I guess that only counts when it's something they don't support.

You can't be pro-life and vote dems If you sat out the election...you were willing to sentence millions to death

:)
Look it happened again! I guess hating someone that represents the decline of rational thought in our culture is downvote worthy! :)



I thought this was already a law.
*we'reI've been feeling more and more helpless as the days go by, and it feels like we're not really moving anywhere. There are moments in the day where it just stays on my mind and weighs me down and it's just depressing..I know a few prochoicers personally, and I cannot talk to them about this because they would either tell me that because they don't agree with me on abortion and I want to change their view I should go "cry with a Catholic group", if it bothers me so much, or they will resort to accusing me of wanting to control women and their bodies. (The conversations I've had on Reddit are more likely to have opinions exchanged than the ones I've had with these people.)Today is January 17th, 2018 and already there are already about 2 million babies dead due to abortion. These babies being killed are not just figures, they are individual human beings, being murdered in the place they should be safest. These figures infuriate me, and even when I am focusing on my schoolwork or even some other thing, it's always there in the back of my mind. It just makes me so sad that we've become so numb to it, and just accept it as part of life at this point. It has become such a huge part of my life and I cant believe something as big is this is treated as clipping a toenail.
Don't give up. You will never know how many babies are also being saved. People are listening and it may help a pregnant mother now to make the right decision or a father in the future to support his child. We see the numbers of babies being killed and it is horrendous but, I truly believe there are also many being saved. Sisters for Life have numerous stories every month about mothers who changed their minds on abortion.
My state is a blue piece of shit though. I understand that, but, it disgusts me that so many people ignore it and treat it like a fact of life.
Trust me, I know how you feel. I'm Canadian. Our prime minister is prochoice and very openly so. He just took away government grants from those who will not sign a waiver stating their acceptance of safe and legal abortion. It's disgusting. It's discriminatory. It's tyrannical. I don't know how people can be so ignorant but here we are. We need to keep our head up and keep our voices up.
I'm really sorry about that :/ Its true that when it comes to abortion the US is really shitty, but I can't imagine what it'd be like in Canada. I agree I'm not giving up but everything feels so dark and it feels like we aren't moving anywhere, I just was wondering if anyone else feels the same way
Lately, I've been wanting to just give up, and let it go. I won't but I feel like nothing is going to change. Sometimes I feel like I can't talk to other women or go on women centered forums or talk about women's issues, because this is always brought up. Even in conversations unrelated to it. And the way they bring it up is so matter of factly and so deeply ingrained within them, and more importantly so accepted by the other women around them that they can feel comfortable doing so. Speaking of bringing up abortion in unrelated situations, I made a post a while back about someone saying they support planned parenthood and abortion when a little girl died by being left in a hot car. This has been happening soooo much lately. People keep bringing up abortion whenever something bad happens to a child or they aren't treated right. It's sad and lazy, that we'd rather wish their lives away than focus on helping them if we can and preventing other children from meeting the same fate. We want abortion to solve all of our problems, but it won't, unless we are going to force or coerce people to have one. We think it will rid us of the poor, disabled, unwanted or mistreated children, etc., but it wont. We also absolve women of any responsibility or moral agency when we put everything on her ability to have an abortion. Instead of focusing on a dumb woman who left her child in a 100 degree car, we want to take the blame off of her and put it somewhere else. What hurts the most is seeing the disconnect between a wanted and unwanted pregnancy. It's gotten to the point where I'm so cynical towards peoples pregnancies in general, because I'm thinking about how a change in feeling would take it from a beautiful baby who they'll cry if they lose to and unwanted fetus to be flushed away.
Slavery never ended in a day.
I know. I feel so helpless. Yes, that is how the people I know behave. They don't talk about abortion  or discuss it; they just believe in it because their friends told them it was the right thing to think, and that pro-lifers are just a bunch of people who hate women. It is impossible to talk to them because they throw out the same unconvincing arguments I've heard a thousand times, but won't let you respond and shut up you down by saying "I don't want to discuss this anymore". Exactly! This is why I find the "what if the child is unwanted" argument to be lazy and ineffective: no one advocates killing born children because their lives are hard, but they will sell it immediately whenever someone voices their opinion against abortion, as if they don't really care at all about the babies being aborted and just want to control women, despite the fact that nearly 50% of women are divided between being pro-life and Pro choice, and that most prochoicers support making abortion legal after the second trimester. Yes, it hurts me too. The way people view a child as valuable if it is wanted and a "useless clump of cells" if it is unwanted. It is similar to how people rarely care about those suffering from depression or suicidal thoughts - "no one cares about them so they don't matter", but taken to the extreme.
It's not really fair to say that pro-choice people are just doing it because that's what they're told, plenty of people thought about it just as much as you and came to the pro-choice conclusion. Also just as many prolife people only think that way because they are told to. IF you don't think a fetus is a person, then there really isn't much to debate, as that is essentially a value judgement. It's like trying to convince me that I like vanilla ice cream when I really like chocolate.
Once you reply to my other message, we can talk about that.
I try to always reply, what did I miss?
https://www.reddit.com/r/Libertarian/comments/7pxx34/letmenhavelegalabortions/dspajra/ A lot of your arguments are addressed here.
Those are just arguments though, there is not logical conclusion. I can still read those and say, I don't think a fetus is a person. You can tell me why vanilla is so much better than chocolate, but at the end of the day, if I don't like it as much then it doesn't matter, maybe you do convince me, but if I don't change my opinion that doesn't make me wrong. Kants great and all, but at the end of the day, those are just his opinions, he has no more authority on the subject than anyone else. I don't see how you can claim that there is some absolute objective morality unless we all agree, what makes your absolute objective morality better than my absolute objective morality?
But the point is that humanity is not subjective. Also personhood is not subjective. You're saying it's subjective, and as you do so, you conveniently compare human rights to ice cream flavours, as if deciding which humans get to live is as innocent as your favourite flavour of ice cream. I'm saying if it's subjective then why can't I subjectively decide that certain groups of human beings aren't persons based on my own personal criteria? Also, you didn't answer my comment on moral relativism.  Address that. Your analogy fails, because human rights violations are much bigger than which ice cream flavour tastes best. And I'm sure you'd have a problem if I replaced "martial rape" in place of your favourite ice cream. Your comment here makes me unsure you read my comment on Kant's moral philosophy, because it follows a set of rules that you can apply to your morals and set universal boundaries. The rules require: First formulation: "Act only on that maxim through which you can at the same time will that it should become a universal law [of nature]." It is important to distinguish this from the Golden Rule. Kant points out that the Golden Rule is immoral as it does not hold principles of benevolence to oneself or others. It also does not contain a moral obligation(duty maxim). 2) Second formulation: "Act in such a way that you treat humanity, whether in your own person or in the person of any other, always at the same time as an end and never merely as a means to an end." 3) Third formulation: "Therefore, every rational being must so act as if he were through his maxim always a legislating member in the universal kingdom of ends." So it's not just about yourself, it's about yourself and others. Don't treat yourself as a means and don't treat others as a means to an end. It's easy to make objective morals based off of these principles without hurting or violating anyone's rights. You don't believe that there is any objective moral authority at all? There are also currently societies and groups where certain persons are robbed either completely or partially of their personhood(look at women in Muslim countries, for example). Do you defend that? Okay. Give me an explanation, in a morally consistent way, on how society's opinions on slavery, rape(I was going to add a "maritial" in there but if it's without consent it's rape regardless of marital status), murder of ex-Muslim apostates(as well as gays and women who are raped), etc etc, are oh-so different than abortion, and explain how abortion isn't wrong but these other actions are.
You can say that you don't think certain groups of humans aren't people, but that is pretty meaningless unless you get a lot of people to agree with you. So marital rape is a good example. I show you some arguments and you still think that marital rape is ok. Few issues here, it goes against already established and agreed upon morals or ideas. We both agree, and society agrees that rape is wrong, therefore its likely wrong within your own moral framework, assuming you agree with those other things. You can make a logical argument, starting with agreed upon axioms. The personhood argument is a situation where we don't agree on the axioms in the first place. Nothing that we agree on really says anything about when a person becomes a person. I don't think there is any higher moral authority, no. Where would it come from? I certainly think those things are wrong, very wrong. I know lots of other people think they are wrong, but there isn't anything else that I can declare about them. I find them quite distasteful, so distasteful in fact that I might take action to stop them from happening. If I am living back in the day when slavery was a thing, I would find it quite distasteful, I would find other people who agreed and work to end it. That doesn't require me saying that slavery is absolutely wrong, not because I have any less disdain for it than you, but because there are no absolutes, I want it to go away for essentially selfish reasons, because I don't like it. You don't need to invoke any kind of more absolutism to be against those things. I do think those other things you mentioned are wrong, and I don't think abortion is wrong, but that doesn't mean that you can't think its wrong. For abortion, I don't think a fetus is a person. Presumably you do. Assuming that we are both informed, then we are just at an impasse. You can't really reconcile those differences. And that's ok. I think it would be very unfortunate if women didn't have access to abortions, but if everyone disagrees with me then that is how it is.
No, it's not, because if humanity and personhood is subjective, I don't need everyone to agree with you. Your comment here makes me suspicious as to whether you actually read my comment or skimmed through it to find points you disagree with. I'm not saying marital rape is okay. What I'm saying is that the majority of society pre-90s thought that it should not be illegal. My argument isn't that marital rape should be legal, my argument is that according to you, since your opinion is the majority rules, it would be, since only a minority disagreed with them. Also,straw-man fallacy But that's not what the majority of society agreed with pre-90s. And you explicitly said that if society doesn't agree, then we must make laws pertaining to their position(ergo, allow martial rape to stay legal). So given that most people disagreed, should those opposed to marital rape have just dropped it? That's not true. The majority of prolifers and pro-choicers favour making abortion illegal in the second and third trimester. Not that this is therefore a book on personhood, or means that the minority need to keep their mouths shut, else martial rape would still be legal. Also, an interesting read At this point I'm not sure if you're reading or thinking about what I have to say - Rule 2 is supposed to limit pro-choicers who are here only to advocate for their position. I'm sorry but I already answered this in the previous comment thread, as well as in the r/Libertarian thread and if you continue to ask the same question I'm just going to give you the same answer again. Unless you had another question that I'm not understanding. But hey, it isnt my job to guess what you really mean. It's your job to say what you mean. Third, this may sound like nitpicking, but I'm genuinely interested in your "morality is subjective" view. You said: What if someone wanted to keep a slave? Who are you to dictate what is a sufficiently logical reason for legal persons to not be allowed to keep another human being as a slave? Please explain. So you're saying slavery isn't morally wrong. Interesting. And you use the logic of "well, I don't like it, so it should be outlawed!" Question: If you support any laws, aren't you by definition forcing other people to live by your belief system even if they disagree with it? I'm not gonna lie, I was hoping you would say that. You say that morality is subjective, but then argue that other things are wrong(even if you think it's alright for others to disagree, you are stating that it is a moral wrong). You then say that abortion isn't wrong, and from your previous comments you say it is because a fetus isn't a "person", your reason being that personhood doesnt start until birth. Yet you haven't provided any reasoning as to support this, other than your opinion that personhood starts at birth. This conversation is about what the law should be, not what the law is. I don't like being repetitive. But I don't think you've addressed my initial question about deciding which humans are worthy of personhood. Even if you disagree with someone on what is wrong, by your own definition of morality, they can't be wrong, no one is right, it's all subjective. Which means you can't say I'm wrong. You further entrap yourself by arguing that majority rules, but step back on martial rape, arguing that it should be illegal because people could have morals leading up to the conclusion that marital rape should not be permissible. But I could say the same thing for abortion and it would still be true. Can any enemy of your country morally kill you if she sees it as morally right(and, for good measure, the majority of her people)?  I mean you've just said there no such thing as objective morality and that, morality being subjective, majority rules. What about women's rights in Saudi Arabia? The thing is, you haven't explained why women should have abortions. You've just said that morality is subjective, and that personhood begins at birth, but you haven't explained why,  You just deflect any criticism to your position with "It's all subjective", and you flip-flop with that argument to "majority rules". So given that the majority has agreed to horrendous things in the past, should the minority have stayed quiet? Or are you changing your opinion about majority rules?


wow
This is national review. Take with a hefty pinch of salt.

I will preface this post with the acknowledgement that I am Catholic, so that does influence the "why" behind my pro-life stance, although ultimately it was science that dissuaded me from the pro-choice stance as I was Catholic and pro-choice for many years.Today, my friend who gave her daughter up for adoption 11 years ago posted a video on facebook through her Catholic ministry's page where she emotionally addressed her daughter and told her how much it tore her apart to carry her, birth her, then give her away to another family, but that ultimately she's so happy she made the decision because now the girl has a happy life and a mother and father who love her. I thought it was very touching.And then I glanced through the comment section after seeing an "angry react" and boy, I was not prepared for the shit show that went down there. Seemingly out of the woodwork, a ton of people who said they were adoptees told her to take the video down because it was triggering. Much debate ensued and their positions became much more clear, and it was heartbreaking to read as an outsider and someone who has little personal experience with adoption outside of a friend who said she was adopted.Basically all of these adoptees, one of whom ran a ministry for "adoptees in recovery," held the position that adoption is NEVER a good option. Some of them held different beliefs about abortion (many said they would have rather been aborted than adopted, others were against abortion and were Christian), but all of them resented the fact that their birth moms gave them up for adoption. The Christian adoptees' reasoning was that God doesn't make mistakes and if he didn't want a woman to raise a child as her own, He would not have put the child in her womb, but in someone elses' womb. Another thing in common that all these adoptees had was the strong belief that churches and the pro-life movement should stop pushing adoption on women facing crisis pregnancies and making adoption seem like a good option when raising the kid or having a close family member raise the kid is what should be suggested.I was very skeptical when I first read through their comments,but it really did make me think about how awful the adoption process can be and how much money it costs and I'm starting to question a lot of long-held, unquestioned beliefs about adoption, adoptive parents, adoptees and birth moms. Should the Church and the pro-life movement step back and reassess its rhetoric here? "Adoption not abortion" is such a commonly used phrase to dissuade abortion-minded women, but what if the adoptees in this thread have a point that it's not actually the most loving thing to suggest to a woman facing a difficult situation nor for the child? Thoughts?Also for those interested in seeing the thread for yourself, it's on this public facebook page: https://www.facebook.com/EzerProject/videos/vb.1551528441825923/1873344142977683/?type=2&theater&comment_id=1875138826131548&reply_comment_id=1875347139444050&notif_t=video_reply&notif_id=1516212106973719And for those interested in learning more about this adoptee-led, anti-adoption movement, you can go here: https://howdoesitfeeltobeadopted.com/author/pamelakaranova/
I don’t think we should change our stance on adoption. For one, it seems that you are basing your questions on Facebook comments and that organization, but of course those 2 sources are going to be filled with bitter adoptees. People that are neutral about their adoption obviously wouldn’t care enough to rant on Facebook or join an organization about it, and i doubt there are very many people that feel the need to speak up about their positive experiences with their adopted family because it is expected that they would have a positive experience. I have a wonderful family that i was born into, but i feel no need to tell strangers about it online. Perhaps we should look at actual surveys done on adoptees and their experiences with their adopted families. A quick google search led me to a couple of surveys that showed the vast majority of adoptees are neutral about their adoption, which i would expect. Only slightly more had negative feelings about it than positive, but there could be many different reasons for that. Only a psychologist could find the root cause of their issues, but i wouldn’t be surprised if many adoptees found it easy to blame some of their problems on being adopted, rather than addressing their real issues, just as people do with a lot of things. However, if there are problems that are only experienced by adoptees, perhaps the real issue is how the adopting parents are handling the adoption, which could be remedied through counseling. I really don’t think adoption is the problem, and I think it should be encouraged because 2 alternatives, abortion and begrudging parenthood, are more problematic, especially when there are about 36 times as many couples desiring to adopt than there are children to be adopted.
Well said. I agree. I’ve had a wonderful experience with adoption.
I had a similar experience that the OP had and was also shocked at the time, but oh well. If that's their truth then so be it. Maybe more effort needs to be made in addressing their specific emotional issues. I typed up some thoughts I had, but decided against it. Because I'm not adopted, and therefore not allowed to speak on their feelings about it, I won't get too much into it as I don't want to argue with anyone about the subject. I will say that the experience I've had that was similar to OP has lead me to question whether I will adopt or not in the future. Right now I still want to, but maybe an older child that wants a new family as opposed to a baby that will grow up to believe that the grass would've been greener on the other side.
I was adopted and I'm so deeply grateful I got the chance to be alive. Why kill someone just  because they may end up with a shitty situation due to adoption? It may sound harsh but if your life sucks that much and you can't change it you can always "opt out" later, but you can never "opt back in". Why kill somebody before they are born just based on a few peoples' bad experiences with the adoption process. Adoption is the answer. We just need more people out there to be parents.
I think the prochoice crowd has always wanted to demonize adoption. There was a time in the past when adoption were not open and adoptees were lied to for years about the truth. This created a lot of anger and animosity and is at the core of groups like the ones you mentioned being formed. It’s not like that anymore, adoptees know the truth from the get go and this seemed to have solved much of the problem. I have adoption in my family and it is amazing for all involved. I wouldn’t rely on one group of resentful people to characterize a group of millions.
Pro Choicer here. If a woman decides to carry a pregnancy to term but doesn't want the baby.. By all means adoption is the way to go. Women should not be made to feel guilty for giving a baby up for adoption - its best for all parties involved. So continue to praise women who decide to go the adoption route, just don't force someone who doesn't want to.
The proper response to being triggered by simple expression of opinions is to learn how to get over one's reactions, not demand the world conform. That said, in one way - a very heavily qualified way - I think there's a point here. People should be encouraged to have and raise their own children. Adoption is a last resort. It should not be a safety valve to protect against abortion, and it does not replace a culture which promotes raising one's own children, loving them, and... here's the hardest part... avoiding getting pregnant out of wedlock. I don't think the rhetoric needs to be changed, but I shudder at the thought of a woman getting pregnant of her own free choices outside of wedlock, putting the child up for adoption, and being lauded as a brave hero for doing so.
That was a very logical response. Thank you. My mind has been reeling all night and my husband is sick and not up for such an in-depth discussion, so I've just been in my head all night and questioning so much about adoption. I agree - it should be a last resort.




Considering how bonkers cold it has been up there recently, that is a pretty great turn out!
Very proud of them <3
Checkout this short article, it’s written by a biologist who’s obviously bias, but what are your thoughts on his critique against the Moore text that he quoted? I sometimes use that one in my arguments and would like to know how I would counter his reasoning. And also, I don’t think he exactly quoted Moore’s text word-for-word, but I’m not sure if that makes a difference in his reasoning.
Moore's text: This highly specialized, totipotent cell is the primordium of a new human being. "Primordium" means "an organ, structure, or tissue in the earliest stage of development" Myers: Odd…it doesn’t say we have a human being at fertilization, but instead says we have a totipotent cell that is a primordium that will become a human being. Um, but that's not what Moore said. The text clearly says that the totipotent cell is a primordium (an organism at the beginning stages of life) of a human being. So it's a human being at its earliest stage. Myers just asserts that Moore meant the zygote "will become" a new human being even though anyone with eyes that can read knows that's not what Moore said or meant. Talk about stretching the truth!


1,671 abortion providers as of 2014. The number has fallen since then.
Great!
For comparison California is about 12% of the US population.
And yet they won't share their abortion statistics.
Oh my word! Are any babies being BORN in California?! Good grief. There are 964 Taco Bells in California to give some perspective. So for every 2 Taco Bells in a town there is 1 abortion facility.

As a pro-lifer, I'm appalled that you said this. Good job making us all look bad. No one wants North Korea to nuke California. that's a disgusting thing to say.


For mobile and non-RES users | More info | -1 to Remove | Ignore Sub
I’m confused. Are you saying that “pro-lifers are [too] stupid to warrant a proper response” or are you saying that is your opponent’s attitude, because he seemed pro-choice, if not just contrarian?
Sorry for confusion and yes that is what I meant. I seem to have trouble posting alternate titles in here, because my words are automatically capatilised(or not), and it makes it hard to read.
Apologies for the improper grammar in the title. For some reason title post capitalised every word in the sentence while I'm typing it.


Chicago is doing it right.  In my city it's always on the 22nd, the anniversary of Roe.  While I understand doing that for big March, for the city marches it makes far more sense to move it to a weekend when working people can go more easily.  It's a great experience, but it burns a whole day
I’d like to introduce an important topic of the new world system that was laid out over 40 years ago by Dr. Lawrence Dunegan, who attended a March 20, 1969 at a meeting of the Pittsburgh Pediatric Society presented by the lecturer Dr. Richard Day who was the medical director planned parenthood. This is important because the plans for the new world system were to be implemented over the next 30 years, and we can now see the results today, even though not everything went according to plan. This will be a large piece of the puzzle in helping you understand the roots abortion today.The entire transcript can be found here in an easy to navigate page:  https://100777.com/nwo/barbariansAnother source is here:  https://drrichardday.wordpress.com/This involves altering culture, advancing a new system moving away from national sovereignty and promoting degeneracy for the purpose of control and destruction of life that was not deemed fit to survive. The process of natural selection which creates and preserves traits that are seemingly fitted for the functional roles they perform was to be altered to get rid of the undesirables and deplorables. The eugenics movement had become more technical and sophisticated at this stage, and even more so now.Some of the subjects covered is hyper sexualizing the youth changing women’s clothing while getting kids interested in sex at earlier ages to target them for early pregnancies which would change the perception of traditional parents attitudes towards abortion.REDIRECTING THE PURPOSE OF SEX - SEX WITHOUT REPRODUCTION AND REPRODUCTION WITHOUT SEX Well, from population control, the natural next step then was sex. He said sex must be separated from reproduction. Sex is too pleasurable, and the urges are too strong, to expect people to give it up. Chemicals in food and in the water supply to reduce the sex drive are not practical. The strategy then would be not to diminish sex activity, but to increase sex activity, but in such a way that people won't be having babies.CONTRACEPTION UNIVERSALLY AVAILABLE TO ALL And the first consideration then here was contraception. Contraception would be very strongly encouraged, and it would be connected so closely in people's minds with sex, that they would automatically think contraception when they were thinking or preparing for sex. And contraception would be made universally available. Nobody wanting contraception would be .. find that they were unavailable. Contraceptives would be displayed much more prominently in drug stores, right up with the cigarettes and chewing gum. Out in the open rather than hidden under the counter where people would have to ask for them and maybe be embarrassed. This kind of openness was a way of suggesting that contraceptions .. that contraceptives are just as much a part of life as any other items sold in the store. And, contraceptives would be advertised. And contraceptives would be dispensed in the schools in association with sex education!SEX EDUCATION AS A TOOL OF WORLD GOVERNMENT The sex education was to get kids interested early, making the connection between sex and the need for contraception early in their lives, even before they became very active. At this point I was recalling some of my teachers, particularly in high school and found it totally unbelievable to think of them agreeing, much less participating in, distributing of contraceptives to students. But, that only reflected my lack of understanding of how these people operate. That was before the school-based clinic programs got started. Many, many cities in the United States by this time have already set up school-based clinics which are primarily contraception, birth control, population control clinics. The idea then is that the connection between sex and contraception introduced and reinforced in school would carry over into marriage. Indeed, if young people when they matured decided to get married, marriage itself would be diminished in importance. He indicated some recognition that most people probably would want to be married. .. but that this certainly would not be any longer considered to be necessary for sexual activity.TAX FUNDED ABORTION AS POPULATION CONTROL No surprise then, that the next item was abortion. And this, now back in 1969, four years before Roe vs. Wade. He said, "Abortion will no longer be a crime." Abortion will be accepted as normal, and would be paid for by taxes for people who could not pay for their own abortions. Contraceptives would be made available by tax money so that nobody would have to do without contraceptives. If school sex programs would lead to more pregnancies in children, that was really seen as no problem. Parents who think they are opposed to abortion on moral or religious grounds will change their minds when it is their own child who is pregnant. So this will help overcome opposition to abortion. Before long, only a few die-hards will still refuse to see abortion as acceptable, and they won't matter anymore.ENCOURAGING HOMOSEXUALITY ... ANYTHING GOES HOMOSEXUALITY ALSO WAS TO BE ENCOURAGED. "People will be given permission to be homosexual," that's the way it was stated. They won't have to hide it. And elderly people will be encouraged to continue to have active sex lives into the very old ages, just as long as they can. Everyone will be given permission to have sex, to enjoy however they want. Anything goes. This is the way it was put. And, I remember thinking, "how arrogant for this individual, or whoever he represents, to feel that they can give or withhold permission for people to do things!" But that was the terminology that was used. In this regard, clothing was mentioned. Clothing styles would be made more stimulating and provocative. Recall back in 1969 was the time of the mini skirt, when those mini-skirts were very, very high and very revealing. He said, "It is not just the amount of skin that is expressed ... exposed that makes clothing sexually seductive, but other, more subtle things are often suggestive.".. things like movement, and the cut of clothing, and the kind of fabric, the positioning of accessories on the clothing. "If a woman has an attractive body, why should she not show it?" was one of the statements. There was not detail on what was meant by "provocative clothing," but since that time if you watched the change in clothing styles, blue jeans are cut in a way that they're more tight-fitting in the crotch. They form wrinkles. Wrinkles are essentially arrows. Lines which direct one's vision to certain anatomic areas. And, this was around the time of the "burn your bra" activity. He indicated that a lot of women should not go without a bra. They need a bra to be attractive, so instead of banning bras and burning them, bras would come back. But they would be thinner and softer allowing more natural movement. It was not specifically stated, but certainly a very thin bra is much more revealing of the nipple and what else is underneath, than the heavier bras that were in style up to that time.

Semantics. I think most of us can agree none of these are good things by any means. But all this really is is a stupid debate about what "pro-life" really means. The term has historically and today continues to refer to being against widespread legal abortion. It doesn't refer to literally any possible life issue a person can conceive of. Same with "pro-choice." We all understand the term to refer to the choice for legal abortion. It doesn't refer to the choice to rape, murder, steal, etc. Pretending it does is just playing childish word games imo. We waste time on labels and "gotchas" when we could be having productive conversations.
Exactly. I don't see pro-lifers constantly going around saying "you can't call yourself pro-choice if you don't support school choice/the choice to own a gun/the choice of businesses not to offer contraception in health plans, etc. I don't get why so many pro-choicers think similar arguments against the term "pro-life" are effective.
Semantics? You understand prolife has been changed by some to only mean certain lives, at certain times, by using only certain means? I think the belief in life has been twisted for political means, and I don't want to do that. I just want to convince others it can mean more.
It can mean more but as a general rule it doesn't mean anything more than being against legal elective abortion. Just like being prochoice doesn't as a general rule mean anything more than being in favour of legal elective abortion.
That's incorrect. "Pro-life" has always meant an opposition to abortion. Any other meaning applied to that is not part of the definition. This is a semantic argument that distracts from actually discussing abortion. If you want to have a civil discussion with pro-lifers about abortion, this is not the way to do it. It's an argument in bad faith. It's insulting, and phrases like "Caring for the unborn and then walking away" are huge strawmen that make us feel personally attacked.
We need to stop letting the other side label the argument. By calling the other side pro-choice it implies we're against choice when that couldn't be further from the truth. We support plenty of choices: abstinence, contraception, parenthood, or adoption. The only choice the other side supports that we don't is abortion. Therefore, it makes much more sense to rephrase the argument not as pro-life vs pro-choice, but as pro-infant vs pro-abortion.
Should really be pro-legal-abortion and anti-legal-abortion.
It's honestly obnoxious that people intentionally misunderstand what pro-life means, so that it can fit their agenda. As someone who is extremely liberal, but also extremely pro-life....I find it unlikely, if not impossible, that you can't understand why this makes no sense. When I say I'm pro-life, I am specifically referring to my belief that elective abortion should be illegal and unthinkable. Everything else is referred to individually as its own issue. Does it infuriate me that some people who are pro-life can also be anti-welfare? Yes, but they are still pro-life. Don't intentionally misunderstand just so you can attempt a gotcha, when there isn't one to be found.
I think there is something to be said for all of those things. Nevertheless, no one is confused when we refer to ourselves as pro-life. More to the point, it is the context that matters.  If we're talking specifically about capital punishment, I'd say I was "pro-life" but I won't tell someone in an abortion-related discussion that they aren't pro-life if they happen to disagree with me in other discussions. Killing innocent human beings is wrong, period.  Even if someone says that they want nothing to do with born children after birth, they're still right to be pro-life in the abortion context, even if I think their opinions on not caring for those children after birth are misguided and wrong. I believe a significant bunch of pro-choice people are not bad people, they're trying to do their best in a world that keeps telling them that the lives of innocent children are a problem and that they are regressive and evil to deny women their "choice".  But whether they have good intentions or not, they're still wrong and the costs are high. These children don't even have a chance at a better life after birth unless they live to see their birth to begin with.  First things, first.
0% interest
Trolls gonna troll. In the context of US Politics, Prolife means 1 specific thing. Nobody goes after Planned Parenthood because they oppose school choice, so don't be an idiot.
So politics are what you care about, not the actual lives. I believe that would be the troll, someone who can't discuss something without insults.
Did you happen to read the words on the picture you posted or...?
Those aren't insults, statements I agree with about what prolife really is. Final one is probably taunting, but others are simply facts I agree with.
I think you have to be intentionally obtuse at this point to not see that even if you personally find that to be a compelling umbrella of pro-life topics, the general definition refers strictly to abortion and therefore chiding people for not doing x, y, z other things is both illogical and purposefully provocative.
The only relevant issue there is the death penalty, since it's the only one about killing people.
Not even because the criminal is not an innocent human being necessarily. But the one that is the most similar I guess.
But they might be. Is it OK to kill one that is innocent to allow the killing of those that are guilty?
Not knowingly. Personally I am against the death penalty but I do not think you have to be in order to be prolife because the former is dealing with a person found guilty and abortion a person who is completely innocent.
This is pure semantics. We could call opposition to abortion "smurdgitism" and a consistent ethic of life "wongnopism" and the arguments for each position would be the same. In practice, this "argument" boils down to "I support killing babies, but you wore the wrong Halloween costume, so I guess we're even!" in a more pithy form.


This is fantastic!  Hopefully this means other states can start doing the same.
Surprised and very happy to hear this.
Would be interested to know if any Trump nominees were ruling on this case?
Good news
http://foreignpolicy.com/2017/10/03/putins-next-target-is-russias-abortion-culture/It will likely be very hard but we are already seeing abortion rates in Russia decline and public opinion is starting to shift against it.
Putin regards abortion as an issue of national importance. He wants the nation to have a positive birth rate, and that naturally means discouraging abortion.
Russia and former Soviet states have the highest rates of abortion in the world. (43/1000 vs North American's 19/1000 or even Eastern  Asia's 28/1000 women) [Abortion rates around the world] (https://www.cbsnews.com/pictures/abortion-around-the-world-where-are-rates-highest/) If this trend continues Putin knows there will not be enough young Russians to support the aging population and their economy will contract. Weather he's doing it for more economic reasons or moral reasons I think we can agree this is certainly a step in the right direction.
I would hardly call Vladimir Putin "pro-life," but if his political interests end up saving the countless Russian lives lost to abortion, you won't hear me complain.
Agreed.  While the reasoning employed would not really change the mindset that makes abortion popular for some groups, I can't argue with children being saved from death. Still, in the end, it is just going to keep popping up again and again as long as people think the idea is "progressive" instead of actually being regressive.
Ends justify the means eh?/s I get what your saying. We have to gain ground where we can.
More like the means justify the ends, methinks. Putin is not one to value human life for its own sake, but if banning abortion helps him meet some political goal, more power to him.
I wonder if Putin in prolife for the right reasons (I hope so) but I'll take what I can get. Even if it's purely to boost the birthrate, he's still better than many world leaders in this respect.
I hope he's truly pro life. Just a question, is it pro life to encourage births, but for nationalist or racialist reasons? Like say the german lebensborn program ( I know reductio ad hitlerum, but its one of the few cases I can think of. Hell in some ways they encouraged women to have kids out of wedlock, as long as they were Aryan.)
Either way Putin will have a positive effect. Russia has come a long way from the 1960s (when 75% of pregnancies ended in abortion).
True. I just hope motives are pure.
Even if he's only doing it to stop population decline the effects are still good.
I meant for more nationalist reasons. Economic reasons imho are good. But yes, Russia needs people.
Even if it is to increase the ethnic Russian population for nationalist reasons then so what?
Well, a lot of nationalist type people probably don't care, or might even encourage other groups to get abortion. I mean there are alt right debates about abortion whether the pro life movement is good because it encourages other "undesirables" to have kids. But as usual i'm making a mountain out of a molehill.
In Russia that I know of nearly all abortions are by ethnic Russians anyway.
True. That's why i said i'm making something out of nothing
True, he's an atheist and cares nothing about life or any absolute value, but he wants to reverse his declining population.
Well, he doesn't profess atheism, but alright. You realize this sub has a fairly sizable secular pro-life presence, right?
Yeah he did, and has done nothing to change those words. Look back at his quotes when he was KGB. Am I to care about his presence? I am substance over effect.
By building churches, promoting the traditional family, wearing a cross, attending mass... But again: you realize this sub has a major secular pro-life presence, right? Are you saying they're faking their pro-life cred?
My most generous interpretation of his/her words "True, he's an atheist and cares nothing about life" is not that an atheist (like myself) doesn't care, but that we have no arguable basis for caring (which I'd argue is incorrect but...). I mean I'm an atheist, and I can tell you I do care. So the only other interpretation of their words is I'm lying. Lol.
You can read into it whatever you want. Waiting for you to check the facts in Putin's own words at the KGB.
You implied being an atheist is linked to not caring about life, which makes no sense.
You need to look into that more before making such a categorically wrong statement. If life is meaningless, then you're just a bit of protoplasm that washed up on the beach, and it benefits mankind zero to care about just another bit of slime. In fact, if atheism is observed, then you should love abortion, because that baby would become just another polluter of the environment. Fortunately, atheism is not in line with history, so we are done with that. Now then, I am still waiting for a logical and reasonable retort, using Putin's own words against his KGB days as ATHEIST and MARXIST against any form of Biblical worship.
No one has said this... This is as stupid as me saying "If you believe in heaven then you should love abortion because it ensures babies go to heaven instead of living with the possibility of deviating from God and going to hell." Just dumb. Try for a second to actually ask an atheist what they think. Have you ever done this?
This is not something claimed by atheism. Hahaha, what? By your logic, why should an atheist care about the environment? Wouldn't the environment just be a bunch of "bit[s] of slime"?
Putin doesn't talk about his religious beliefs although his father was an Atheist and his mother was an Orthodox Christian. In interviews he mentions being baptized, being raised by a Christian, how his mom gave him a cross before his trip to Israel when he worked on Leningrad City Council in 1993, how he's never taken it off since. Even if he's an Atheist, which sounds very likely, he was raised by an Orthodox Christian mother, it's quite clear his values are rooted in his Orthodox upbringing.
Vladimir Putin is at least nominally Christian and willing to support the Orthodox Church.
This is true.  Putin is a known ally of the Russian Orthodox Church and vice-versa. It is not entirely clear to me that he's a true believer: Orthodoxy in Russia has always been tied up with the Nationalism that Putin represents, and so an alliance makes good sense politically. He was also a KGB officer, and brought up in an atheistic system which he was a support for. That doesn't prevent him being sincere, but it could leave room for doubt for where he would stand if the Church actually opposed any major facet of his program. Given the Church's history as being a state religion in Russia's past, it is unlikely that he's going to meet much resistance from them on anything unless he starts directly interfering with the Church.
I'd also like to add other Christian denominations, Jews, Muslims, etc have also received some state support in one way or another during Putin's presidency. Seems he has respect for most religions (not including Jehovah's Witnesses of course lol)
Have they? I've heard some have but some haven't. I've heard mixed things about Catholicism.
Sorry gonna copy and paste from another comment I made about his religious beliefs. May be a bit out of context.
He's probably like a lot of Russians. Respects the church, but that might not translate to being necessarily devout.
Not according to his actions.
How hasn't Putin supported the Orthodox church? He generally makes laws that they want.
What's wrong with that?

How is this not just the most basic of common human decency?!
Well, not killing helpless babies should be the most basic, but there you go.
Here is how: Anatomy ultrasounds are done at 18-22 weeks, let's say 20 weeks.  That's when major anomalies are typically found.  Typically it takes somebody a week to come to a decision and then a week to make arrangements if they choose to terminate as a result. So, let's say there's a 23 week, 0 day termination for anomalies not compatible with life -- aka the kind of abortion that most (I can't believe it's not all) of you are OK with.  It's done as an induction at the mother's request because she wants to hold the fetus afterward.  Now if the newborn is born alive as a result (not because the abortion is botched, mind you; I've done these and discussed with the parent that they may see signs of life on delivery and discussed what comfort care means), it has to get rushed to a hospital and admitted. So subsection a)1)A is actually OK: It's OK because it's standard of care in pediatrics to allow for comfort care only prior to 24 weeks.  So by "OK" here I mean, "your elected representatives working hard to do almost nothing" and "if it ever comes up in a court of law there will still be some pediatrician they can find to testify to the contrary." But subsection a)1)B contains no such "reasonably diligent and conscientious" clause: So for our grieving patient who has just had an induction abortion in an outpatient center, this neonate now has to get transported (by ambulance) to a hospital and admitted... no mention in the law of what to do when they die along the way.  What one minute ago was a humane and respectful way of reducing risk to the patient and pain and suffering the fetus/neonate is now just making things more traumatic for her. So what will providers do?  I'm guessing they'll do more preprocedure cardiac injections to ensure demise prior to cervical preparation, a step that many in the family planning community feel only increases maternal risk.  But they'll do it, because otherwise they're at risk of going to jail, and then they can't help anybody.
Alright Orwell, you may use whatever word you wish to refer to the baby, be it "fetus", "neonate", or even "clump of cells", but know that in this community, we are well aware that it is simply an ugly euphemism for child. As to your first point, while it is true that in the case you presented little will change, the bill is hardly evidence of "your elected representatives working hard to do almost nothing". In fact, in the case of a healthy child being born after an abortion, the vast majority of applicable cases, this law offers the child serious legal protection. This is the relevant point. As to your second point, I concede that the law lacks nuance when applied in your very specific example of a child born alive with abnormalities that preclude the possibility of life. However, it would be paramount that a healthy child born after an abortion be transported from the hands of the abortionists to a proper medical facility to ensure survival. As to your last point, I cannot find any literature that suggests that a second or third dose of digoxin or any other cardiac injection poses a risk to the mother. And as someone else mentioned, you are conflating abortion with instances of necessary medical care, and many here would not mind abortionists in prison.
Well I'm not OK with euthanasia either. And as fetuses become viable earlier and earlier, we are going to have to grapple with what to do when a person who is just as human and just as alive as your grandmother survives an attempt to bring an early demise. Will you leave her naked and alone to die of thirst on a cold metal tray?

My work has not been in the medical field, but as the mom of multiples I was very aware of the stages of life throughout pregnancy because of the strong possibility of early delivery. A close friend of mine had her twins at 26 weeks and they were in NICU for over 2 months.
It sounds like you didn't have an early delivery.  I am glad that your multiples (sound like they) did well! For a 23w delivery, what are you suggesting should be done?
That question is irrelevant to their point. You don't need to be the one pushing the "big red button" to have a thorough understanding that dropping nukes is bad. Likewise, You don't need to be a doctor to understand that what you are talking about, and what this legislation attempts to do are two entirely different things, and that killing a baby born alive is wrong. Of course it is important to weigh the mothers heath and risk of birth. I know that a lot of times babies are born who are just going to live for a few moments, because of things that are out of our control, and all you can do is hold them until they pass. But that's not what this is. This is children who had the ultimate harm inflicted on them, somehow stayed alive, and therefore deserve every effort to keep them alive. If a baby has a condition that is incompatible with life, wait as long as is safe, induce labor, and let them die naturally. Why try to kill them first if they are going to die anyways? You make the mistake of thinking people have no idea how the world works. We do. Life is a bag of shit, and sometimes horrible things happen. That doesn't mean we should do horrible things back.
Because otherwise I might go to jail for up to five years because of this bill.
So you would like to let a born child that could be saved struggle and die because the mother wanted it dead? If you try and kill your child, and fail, you don't get to choose whether an ambulance whisks him away. If a child has a chance to live, you save it. End of story.
...are we having the same conversation?
I'm talking about two situations. If the baby is born alive during an abortion, all attempts should be made to save it. If a baby is going to die because of natural causes (not abortion related) it's fine to provide comfort care. It's not that hard to understand.
Ah, okay, so we weren't having the same conversation.  I had described a situation, and you were replying in part to a second situation that had not been introduced in the conversation.  You're right, that's not hard to understand. Of the two situations that you describe in this comment, I am (and have consistently been) describing the intersection of those two situations.  This law has no exception for anomalies incompatible with life.  An outpatient abortion that results in a live birth for a fetus with anomalies incompatible with life would still require hospital admission.


Hey look, I was talking about providing care to somebody with fetal anomalies not consistent with life, and you seem to think she shouldn't have access to experienced healthcare providers to minimize the risks to her life and well-being for a pregnancy that will not produce a viable neonate. Okay.
I reread your comment, and you're right.  And so in fairness, I'll retract my statement in this instance since I support an exception for protecting the life of the mother, particularly in the case of the child being non-viable. Bear in mind, that flawed, but well meaning law such as this is a direct result of the legislators attempting to address the larger problem in a way that would be best, and most clearly handled, by a very simple law outlawing abortion for all non-life threatening reasons.  This option is not currently available for the protection of children. As for the other situations, I still find abortion an egregious violation of the principles of saving life and disgusted with it being conflated with actual medicine in a non-life threatening context by people considered to be professionals.
Then for my part, I apologize for my insufferably smarmy tone in my prior comment. I will say that: Applies for any pregnant person even if there isn't something specific about them that makes pregnancy particularly risky; for any patient with a fetus with anomalies incompatible with life, the sooner the delivery the better the overall (bad) outcome.  Continued gestation is always riskier than delivery (with the tricky exception that spontaneous labor is better than induced labor).  Every pregnancy is life-threatening. I agree with the other aspect of your comment that these laws are just aimed at making abortions harder to get.
https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=876407 https://www.thedailybeast.com/parents-sue-doctors-over-wrongful-abortion http://commonhealth.legacy.wbur.org/2013/10/ectopic-pregnancy-misdiagnosed-methotrexate https://www.liveaction.org/news/misdiagnosis-or-divine-intervention-baby-given-no-hope-to-live-born-completely-healthy/
So we should just kill a newborn infant because saving him might be traumatic for the mother?

So it's okay to kill anyone who is going to die in the future?
At what gestational age would you deliver such a pregnancy?
That's not really relevant to the discussion at hand. We're discussing whether to leave infants on a slab to die or deliver basic medical care.
I think that it is relevant to the discussion at hand, for reasons that I already described. Do you think that it is okay, for a pregnancy with anomalies incompatible with life, to deliver at 20 weeks?
That would depend on a lot of factors, like the mother's health. But prima facie it's not advisable to deliver at 20 weeks, which has nothing to do with whether medical assistance should be rendered to an infant who survives an abortion.
Regardless of maternal health conditions, delivery at 20 weeks is safer for the parturient than delivery at term.

You are literally talking about murdering a child just because he is disabled. Absolutely sickening. Not to mention, no one here who is prolife is ok with aborting someone because of their disability.
So to be clear, you are opposed to terminations in cases where there are anomalies incompatible with life?
I oppose murdering people just because they are disabled, yes, as any moral person would.
For people who are pregnant, and whose pregnancies are complicated by anomalies not compatible with life, at what gestational age should they be delivered?
A pregnancy isn't a living thing; it can't be complicated by "incompatibility with life". Are you talking about an unborn child who suffers from a condition that is predicted to shorten his or her life?
The phrase "anomalies incompatible with life" is used in obstetrics to refer to prenatal diagnoses that predict demise before or shortly after birth. Or in other words, yes, we are understanding each other. What gestational age would you deliver them at?
Yes, but that refers to the child, not the pregnancy, which is a state and not a being. Irrelevant to the issue of murder/abortion which is being discussed in this thread.
Well, my practice is to offer previable delivery to patients as one of the options for when to deliver such a pregnancy.  However, under this law, that would put me in legal jeopardy unless I first induced fetal demise.  So I don't find it irrelevant.  However, you are welcome to.

Isn't this already law? Or did the Democrats repeal it?

Virtue signaling is when you draw a lot of attention to talking about something usually political or some other significant cause, but focusing more on words and making sure people know your opinion, but not so much focus on actions. I think virtue signaling is unhelpful or destructive when it’s done for your own personal gain rather than actually caring about the issue. For example I think a lot of celebrities heavily involved in the “me too” movement are only doing it for their own personal gain. I think it also often involves hypocrisy. For example, said celebs talking about how changes must be made but then completely ignoring opportunities to do so, ie actor Corey Feldman has been speaking out about pedophilia in Hollywood and basically everyone in the industry ignored or tried to discredit him; now he’s working with a top organization dedicated to helping child sexual abuse victims and protecting kids but I don’t hear a peep from even one of the “me too” ladies . I’m not convinced the likes of Meryl Streep, Ashley Judd, Rose McGowan etc really care about helping children because it doesn’t affect them personally and it might require a greater personal risk to them than talking about Weinstein who nobody is protecting. Further they chose to speak up when it was safe and they had agency, but children never get a choice. Child sexual abuse victims often are shamed or threatened into silence for years, sometimes from their own family, with nowhere to turn. That’s why I am skeptical of such kind of virtue signaling because I just don’t buy it most of the time, especially when it involves something so serious
To me, virtue signalling is just communication that isn't meant to address who you're talking to or debating with, it is meant to appeal only to those of your readers/listeners who already agree with you.  You're attempting to increase your standing in your own community, not actually engage with the other side. In that sense, a lot of celebs jump on bandwagons like charity or social justice initiatives because it appeals to the people in their circle and allows them to be seen as part of the in-group. It can be difficult to tell the difference sometimes, because virtue signalling is less about content, and more about the motive behind it. For instance, there is no doubt that the people at the Golden Globes included at least some people who were genuinely working against what happened to women in other workplaces outside of the spectacle. But were all of them that engaged? Probably not. Remember, Harvey Weinstein himself had been a significant donor to various progressive causes, including Women's programs.  Did he really believe that women actually had agency?  It seems he did not, but his donations kept him in the circle of progressive Hollywood.  He may have even convinced himself that he actually was a good progressive. So, in that crowd of celebrities, there were people who legitimately have been concerned about those other women, and those who were more interested in making a statement about their loyalties and adherence to the popular line. While this is bordering on the hypocritical and even crosses the line in the case of a Weinstein or Spacey or whoever, we need to be careful about dismissals due to virtue signalling.  Calling people out on their signalling isn't an attack on their argument, it is an attack on the person. If a vapid celebrity parrots a legitimate argument, it is still a legitimate argument and should be addressed as such.  Where you will really get someone like that over a barrel is when you are able to deal with their arguments and take them on in more depth.  A virtue signalling individual will likely bottom out when the stock arguments start being parried and they must start making real effort to remain engaged.  This will either upset them, or possibly bore them into disengaging, frequently in a disparaging manner to hide their shallow participation in the argument. The pro-life side should be very careful about both the accusation of signalling, and also watch for our own signalling.  While it seems like progressive politics is paramount in the media and entertainment industries, it is not so in homes and churches.  You can be a pro-lifer and be signalling to those crowds.  If you catch yourself doing it, step back and consider where you stand.  Don't do things because your pastor or your circle of friends wants you to.  Look into facts and arguments on your own, and understand them.  You may have been lucky to have been brought up with a respect for life, but don't take that for granted.

Thank the Lord for Tim Tebow

Kids should naturally be more pro-life than adults. They're the ones who were of the generation where abortion was so widespread it turned their birth into a lottery half would lose. And pro-life is the natural position anyway. "Don't kill innocent children" is the obvious philosophy everyone but complete psychopaths would believe, it's being pro "choice" that requires all the mental gymnastics and cognitive dissonance.

Don't kill innocent people that didn't make you get pregnant with them just so you can destroy them. I don't need to do any mental gymnastics to be pro-life.
Didn't say you did.
FTFY



Aren't all embryos tiny?


Yeah, but those aren't "real" women.</sarcasm>
We really should stop calling it pro-choice. Call it what it is ... Pro Abortion or Pro Infant Murder
I agree. Technically, we're pro-choice too: the choice to keep the baby or the choice to give him up for adoption. Nobody's actually against choice, the ability to decide between options. The name is very misleading!
Well, I know plenty of pro-aborts who are on their way to being decidedly anti-choice. Abortion or abortion.
Oh, look, a retard.
Can't take the truth can you?
Well, duh. It's typical of the left that they don't care about you or your opinion unless it completely lines up with theirs. They're extremely rigid about their orthodoxy and you have to be up to date on the latest cause celebre, too.
I'm a pro-lifer who tends to lean more left, and I absolutely despise this. You have to be everything or you're a bigot in someway or another. Can't I just want to help everyone, from conception to death??? I want to help the poor and the preborn and minorities, and eveyone! Let me halp damn it! Yeah so I'm shunned from sides lol
Oh, and, if anything you said in the past doesn’t pass muster, you’re out.
And it works in reverse too. Pro-aborts seem to be more angry when I explain that I used to be very pro-choice. Grew up in a liberal Jewish household, always tried to argue why an abortion wasn't murder. Til I realized it sure as hell is. I think it bothers them because they can't pull their usual cards. I'm not male, Christian, or a republican so they implode when they can't find something to discredit me with. They want one type of person, and that person better love killing babies.
Wow are you me?? Sounds like we have very similar backgrounds/outlooks. :)
Sounds like when people who are a minority disagree with the left.

It is kind of fascinating how many of these Supreme Court cases turn out to be complete BS when you drill down. Roe had already given birth by the time of the trial, and later became a pro-life advocate. Griswold v. connecticut was a predecessor to Roe and the first to find rights in the "penumbras" of the constitution.  Turns out the prosecution was the result of collusion by several parties to challenge a law that was almost never enforced. Even Lawrence v Texas, the case that made laws against homosexuality unconstitutional was based on two men who were not actually engaged in homosexuality when charged.  The defendant didn't even know why high profile lawyers were taking his case--he thought it was a 4th amendment issue.
Because these cases are never actually just about someone with a grievance to be addressed. The Judicial Branch has devolved into just a second, more powerful Legislative Branch, and the need to find someone's name to put on a case is a mere formality at this point.
Excellent. I hope they'll succeed.

Very helpful and informative article
This post was removed because you have a low karma account and we get a lot of spam from newly created accounts. If you have any questions or think your post should be reinstated, please send a message to the mods. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns.



Chicago murder rates would go up even more, they really don't value life at all over there, do they?
One of many reasons I refuse to work or live in IL.
Are they just learning this now? The general assembly hasn't given a single shit about its constituents beyond buying their votes since at least 1983.
Shame we didn't take Illinois in 2010...
Well that means yet another state I’m staying the heck out of (refuse to live or work there) for the time being. Already have California, Oregon, New Mexico and Washington on the list due to forcing citizens to fund abortion and/or their silence (and in some cases retaliation) on confirmed evidence of trafficking aborted children’s body parts

http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2018/01/05/pro-life-advocate-michelle-fischbach-to-become-minnesota-lt-governor/Hopefully we can take Tina Smith's seat in 2018.
I am prolife.  Today I found www.abort73.com; this should be mandatory reading for every pro choice person.  I will point it out to them every chance I get.
Oh, man, the abortion apologist crowd hates that site.  Hardcore hates it.  They would probably get it shut down if they could only figure out how.
Why?  It doesn't seem particularly noteworthy or different than any other prolife site...  Or are you just saying prochoice people dislike prolife sites in general?
It’s systematic, well-organized, and thoroughly sourced and documented.  It targets every major pro-abortion talking point and dismantles them step by step. Therefore, it’s popular for pro-life people to link to and abortion apologists get tired of replying.  Especially when most of their rebuttals are also ninja’d somewhere on the site.
Honestly, from looking at it, I'd say it does a great job of dismantling the all-too-common stupid arguments of laymen pro-choice people who haven't really put any thought into the question and kind of just hold it by default, but it looks like it does a really poor job of even addressing the more substantial arguments of pro-choice bioethics philosophers. But I do agree, since the former is by far the most common person to be dealing with, the site would definitely be useful for that.
There is an entire section devoted to nothing but bioethics abortion arguments.  “A fetus isn’t really a human being,” “competing rights,” “what if there was a famous violinist...,” and “what if there was a fire in a fertility clinic...” are all addressed. Also, most abortion apologist bioethics arguments are not that substantial since they all pretty much book down to one or the other of the SLED arguments, all of which are very unconvincing.
Well notice I didn't say they didn't say anything about them, but that they failed to actually address the argument. I would probably argue that almost the only argument that really matters on the pro-choice side is the question of "what properties does a living being have to possess in order for it to be wrong to end its life".  This seems to be the article that's intended to address that range of arguments, and it just dismissively assumes a definition in order to pretend it's responded to the argument, but it's really said almost nothing at all as a result of that. For example: This is stated, but never argued for, and considering that this is basically the entirety of where they disagree with the bioethics field at large on this question, that means they might as well have not even written the article, because all they've done is state their conclusion in that quote with no support for why anyone should agree with it. A pro-choice person would ask why it says "to develop" in that sentence, because they would argue that having the ability already more accurately reflects what's important.  Having the "potential" for something is always an extremely messy argument route to go down, and they are apparently totally uninterested in offering the reader a reason to agree. Also, by their own definition, they've contradicted themselves because of the overall sloppiness of this article: Just as the normal bioethics arguments also conclude, even by the definition offered in this article (quoted by me previously), not all humans meet the criteria for personhood.  So clearly they were confused themselves in writing that "all humans are persons".  A baby born with anencephaly (the entire brain other than the brain stem missing) does not have the "capacity to develop" those things, yet it is human nonetheless.  At the other end of life, brain dead patients lack that same capacity, and yet human they remain. So by the article's own definition, not all humans are persons, and the definition was unsupported to begin with, both of which together mean they've essentially left the strongest pro-choice argument there is completely unanswered.
All of those arguments are explored in the article about abortion killing not just a person in the present, but in the future they would have occupied as well. Like I said, it’s systematic.  They label each section and focus on it, but tie it all together overall.  You can pick the points out one by one, and that is by design, but I’ve never seen anyone raise an objection that wasn’t addressed in another place.
Every time I choose not to have unprotected sex with my girlfriend I'm murdering a future person. Sorry, guess I'm a monster.
I guess I would differentiate the potential of a sperm vs fertilized egg in this way: Leave a sperm alone for infinite amount of time and it will always a sperm. Leave a fertilized egg alone for infinite amount of time and it will become a recognizable human (you don't even an infinite amount of time, obviously).
But why does that have any meaning from a moral standpoint? That's the connection I'm not making.
That's the "every sperm is sacred" argument which is not the pro-life position. While potentiality is certainly involved in dealing with the unborn, it isn't all potential.  Conception has occurred and the process of development is actually underway. While you could state that sperm has potential, the pro-life argument is that the most reasonable place to begin recognizing that is when a new individual is formed, which is at conception.  This is when potential becomes inevitably set on its course to realization.  The vast majority of sperm (and eggs for that matter) will never even have the opportunity for fertilization.
It's you saying "reasonable" with no actual argument why it's the most reasonable that shuts people out.

Yeah, that’s not how it works at all.
Oh really?
Oh, please.  I get downvoted every time I mention not being totally and completely pro-abortion in most subs.   Especially r/Louisville and r/Kentucky lately.  Pro choice redditors are super pissed in KY right now.   Oh well.  Good thing Karma points aren't real.
Yeah, I get downvoted in r/Texas all the time for pro-life comments. It's almost becoming a badge of honor. How low can I get my karma for spreading the truth?
Here's a sneak peek of /r/texas using the top posts of the year! #1: This is Texas Senator John Cornyn. He sold me, my fellow Texans, and this nation to the telecom lobby for the price of $148,800 | 1242 comments#2: Priorities | 422 comments#3: Don't we all | 376 comments I'm a bot, beep boop | Downvote to remove | Contact ^^me | ^^Info | ^^Opt-out
That's par for the course on reddit, excepting this sub and a couple others.
Yeah, downvoted? Try banned. I was banned not even for expressing a pro-life view, but for challenging a scientific statement on what constitutes a human being. That's how fucked up reddit is when it comes to defending the PC side.
Is anyone here still allowed in TwoX?
I'm sure anyone who has never posted there :P
Ugh, can't stand that place. I wouldn't bother even trying - it would just be upsetting to me. I don't mind talking to anyone about anything as long as we're all respectful of each other, but I seriously doubt that would happen there so I avoid it.
I used to post(read:subtle trolling of the pro-choice arguments) on there, but I stopped because the mods make me wait an hour before responding, and most users can't think of an argument beyond "DEY TUK  MUH BODY AWAY!1!!1!1!!1111" when responding.
That was actually the most accurate portrayal of pro-choicers I've ever seen.
Don't reddit for karma, just be yourself.
Maybe I've lucked out, but I made a pro-life argument in r/changemyview once and it got a ton of upvotes. I was surprised. Corrected. It was actually an argument about euthanasia. I misremembered. But that's a weird sub anyway.
Can you link to it? I'd like to see that
Pardon, I was wrong. It was related, but it had to do with euthanasia, not abortion. Nevertheless, here you go. Same principles apply, though I now wonder how many would realize that.
Ah those comments were frustrating though. It's not hard to realize that killing disabled children doesn't create a world filled with healthy, functioning adults. It crates a world with a lot of murdered children. Yeah, the idea anyone has the right to decide which type of person should live and which should die is always going to be wrong. First disabled people. Then maybe we should IQ test all children at age 2 so that the unintelligent ones can't go on to reproduce, but they are young enough to not fight back. Then the whole world will be healthy and smart. And that's how we get eugenics! The slope, it is slippery.
Of course. What did you expect from a left-leaning site?
It’s sad that something like abortion has even become a partisan issue.
Indeed. The cons and dems vote the issue down party lines.
http://abort73.com/abortion_facts/states/ This is super enlightening
I'm pro-sanity; abortion is necessary to keep down the population of imbeciles.

Contrary to the other poster qanon is not some deep intel shit. It’s a conspiracy theory used to make trump supporting idiots happy by telling them what they want to hear. There’s no validity to it and anyone who would take what they say or do as anything real is sorely lacking critical thinking skills. It’s a conspiracy and a troll - don’t let yourself get played.
I'll accept your views of Q, but Q really is just talking about things many people already know, just pointing out the current events, which much of hte general public is not putting together. There are many others out there with high level info the media has been failing to report. And how often has the media been right about anything Trump related for the last two years? Didn't just the opposite of everything the media said would happen, actually happen? Anyway not going to focus on that. We will be moving against planned parenthood and exposing them for what they are, eugenics movement marketed as a women's right to get them to feel good about killing their unwanted children, so we don't have so many useless mouths to feed and support. That's actually how a lot of people feel when you really get down to justifying abortion. We will also get the story out about selling the baby parts.
Not sure if this sub reddit is familiar with Q from the chans 4Chan then 8Chan which is an annonomys message board. Q is actually a group of high level people with links to intel and the white house. It's part of draining the swamp, which includes the pedophiles and child sacrifice which is at the bottom of the rabbit hole. Luciferians sacrifice children because they are innocent and that makes the sacrifice more powerful. Abortions have been talked about by Satanists as the ultimate sacrifice. This is a lot to take in, and understand if you don't believe it, but it's true and there is a lot of evidence to back it up. Anyway wanted to get you all on board with the moves being made. For more on draining the swamp and Q visit the sub reddit CBTS_STREAM

More African Americans are killed by "doctors" than cops or gangs.

Disgusting racist baby murdering a-holes. Preterm has killed several women as well many of whom are black.
So you really don't have an argument beyond "RAYCISSSSSSS".
They’ve repeatedly failed multiple health inspections and the state hasn’t done jack, and while they’re allowed to continue business they’ve killed many women. Yet they have the nerve to claim they care about women, particularly the black women they see in high numbers p. Ever wonder why most abortion clinics in the US are in high minority neighborhoods or why black women are disproportionately targeted by planned parenthood and the abortion lobby?
Abortion has always been pushed in Black populations in this country.
Sounds like something from a dystopian novel, brainwashing propaganda. Place it on some billboards, maybe record it and play it over a loudspeaker on a loop. That would be effective, I'm sure. Or maybe just get on the right side and you wouldn't need to propaganda anymore. If it was really necessary, they wouldn't need a giant sign telling us so.


I hate the argument of no uterus=no opinion, for a lot of reasons. Its like they’re saying “you must be biased in order for your view to matter” smh
no umbilical cord = no opinion
If the implication is that people who can't get pregnant can't have an opinion on abortion, what does that mean for sterile women, women past menopause, women with hysterectomies, etc?
If you're not a migrant, you can't have an opinion on immigration. If you're not a big company executive, you can't have an opinion on big company executives. See how far you can go with it.
[removed]
I would say mass genocide being accepted and tolerated has outsized effects on other parts of society. A culture that is callous towards the most defenseless is one that will be downright hostile to one another. See: current state of affairs
That's more of a cultural issue though. The acceptance and tolerance comes from society, not the government. In what ways are you or any group of people (fetus notwithstanding) harmed by someone else's abortion? I feel like you would need to prove that in order to have have any standing.
[removed]
You think if something doesn't affect me directly I shouldn't care? What kind of moral system is that? Here's a list of things that don't affect me at all that I (and I bet you) care about: slavery marital rape child sex trafficking child pornography murder There are many more, but I think that should be enough examples to prove that the claim of "if it doesn't affect you you shouldn't care" is not a good argument.
Its a bit more nuanced that though. You shouldn't care if those directly affected don't care. If you see the mother as the person most directly affected then yes it doesn't make sense for other people to care more. If you see the fetus as the person most affected then the argument changes.
What's wrong with necrophilia then?
You could argue that nothing is wrong with it. I'd say that people have a fair amount of standing with regards to how their loved ones corpse is treated.
But you just said that if the victim doesn't care about what happens to it, you shouldn't care. Are you changing your position?

Harm would be to the father involved who I think should have an opinion as to weather HIS progeny should be murdered.
Were you negatively affected by the Holocaust? By the Rwandan genocide? By the Armenian genocide? By Third World poverty? By human trafficking? And do you believe any of the above should end or not have happened?
Personally no, but plenty of people were, especially people involved in them, and they have plenty of standing.
So your problem isn't that the person arguing isn't affected, and thus cannot have an opinion? Because that was what I was arguing against, whereas you're arguing against foetal personhood which is a separate issue.
They are somewhat related. IF you don't think a fetus is a person and cannot have standing, then it is somewhat logical to say that other peoples opinions on the matter are irrelevant as they are not affected at all by someone else's abortion. IF you do think a fetus is a person then it could make sense to argue that harm was done to it and thus to society. So yes the argument hinges on the personhood argument, but given what they belief, their argument makes sense. It doesn't make sense to attack their argument as dumb when it is a logical conclusion of a different value judgement.
So in this case, the argument is moot because one person in the argument believes in personhood whereas the other doesn't, and the pro-choicer in the second image was wrong to barge in and try to shut down the argument using it.
I don't really know that context of the argument enough to say that someone is barging in or not but sure. Similar to a prolife person barging in on argument saying that Abortion is murder.
The Twitter thread is the OP. OP was arguing with someone, then someone else came in with the "You can't complain, you don't have a uterus" line. I did try to find the thread to see if OP edited it, but most of it has been deleted though I do have one Tweet from the chain. Mandatory warning for anyone reading: DON'T HARASS THE LINKED TWEETER! I'm only linking the tweet to show it's real. EDIT: The Tweet bringing up the argument doesn't @mention the guy OP was talking to in the first image, so I guess it isn't barging in. However, it's still pointless because it leads right back to personhood, and is an attempt to shut down the discussion.

So, this is the definition of a logical fallacy. Her "argument" is really an ad hominem attack. An argument should be evaluated based  on its merit, based on its content. Instead of addressing the argument, she attempted to undermine it by attacking the person making the argument. As others have pointed out, ignoring the logical fallacy, the argument hinges on personhood, as it always has.
That's not only because the topic was abortion, she's an extreme feminist, she kinda despise men on her account, it's like one of those persons that believe all men are oppressors and she hates them all. I tried to be nice to her and try to explain how i felt about abortion, saying that i, myself believe it's justified on extreme or bad scenarios when the mother has a risk of dying because she's too young, when there's rape involved or when you know for sure the kid would have a bad lifestyle because of economic problems (stating adoption was a better option), but not when the mother just wants to (As they stated) have an active sexual life, because they will just keep repeating the same mistakes and maybe even abort more than once. Then she continued to say stuff about how i was wrong (without stating any argument) and that i couldn't give my opinion because i couldn't get pregnant.
I totally agree with you there. In the unfortunate cases, which are small numbers, I can understand. But when it’s just because it’s an inconvenience and will take up their play time, that’s unacceptable. Take responsibility for your actions! Either don’t have sex, or use protection so you don’t have to drag an innocent life into it. Also you’re totally in the right saying you have a right to have an opinion as well, and I for one am happy to see men stand up for the unborn too!
That's exactly what i said! But they just kept saying it wasn't their responsibility, and than they wanted to keep having sex, then they stated the condom fails 98% of the times, and a bunch of other excuses, when it's really not that hard to tell the guy to finish outside. (To be honest, i doubt any of them actually have relationships) but their opinions and statements were just really creepy, i can't believe they deffend people who do those kind of things with such uninsensitve arguments. And thanks (: it's nice to see that some people are not sexist when it comes to that kind of stuff
All you have to do is use their propaganda against them. Simply say that you identify as a woman, seriously. Watch them shut right up. Especially the far left who is really pro-abortion, they will have to resort to "trans-phobia" to refute your arguments. Make them squirm.
Just to clarify, i'm obviously the pro-lifer on this one. They were just super mean, unsensitive and... creepy :(
Saying women can only have opinions on abortion is like saying only Americans can have an opinion about trump
My personal favorite response is “oh so since I’m white, I can’t condemn slavery of minorities?” I mean come on, it’s a matter of human morality, not gender!
Well, they're so miserable thy literally want to kill babies as a way to find meaning in their life.
Exactly, i get it... We all like to have have sex, but that's not a reason to justify abortion. They have to be careful, understand that it has his risks and that it's not a game.
This is not strictly true. Edit: Why the downvotes?

So glad to have him on our side.
He’s great on a lot of political topics, too.
Ben Shapiro is a great pro life voice.  He tears down every pro abortion argument.
He’s just too pretentious for my taste and it gets on my nerves. It is a good rant, just won’t convince anyone of anything.
Anytime someone DESTROYS the opponents arguments, the opponents aren't going to listen.
Videos like this aren't to convince the other side it's to allow us to pick up some of his arguments to use on our own.
As a pro-choice person, that's not why this won't convince me. This won't convince me because I agree with everything he said: The fetus is alive and human and thus has human rights etc. I completely agree. The thing is, it is not a human right to exist inside and subsist off of another human's body. If any other human non-consensually occupies another human's uterus, that second human has the right to defend themselves (self defense laws). It is obviously not a happy thing that the fetus will die if removed from the uterus, but that doesn't mean the fetus has special rights to another person's body. For example, people WILL die because you don't donate your kidney. There are people currently waiting for a kidney who are a match to you, and some of them will surely die. However, no one can force you to donate your kidney to them, even though they will die without it. Likewise, a person should not be forced to donate their uterus to another human. Before I get utterly destroyed for this opinion, I'd just like to say that I have considered pro-life people's arguments on this topic. The most prominent arguments I've heard are these two: The person chose to put the fetus there, and must take responsibility for her actions. For one thing, this argument has nothing to do with the bodily autonomy argument so I don't know why people use it as a rebuttle. But to refute it (and setting aside the case of rape) I have a few points. Firstly, sometimes the person made every effort to apply proper birth control, and birth control simply failed. The child was never intended and action was taken to prevent conception, and I fail to see much difference between washing sperm and egg down the toilet separately compared to together. Secondly, and more importantly, it ignores the concept of ongoing consent. Even if a person wanted the child in the first place and intentionally placed it there, if for some reason they later change their mind and don't want the child in their uterus, they have every right to make that decision. Similarly, if you're considering donating bone marrow, but part way through the process decide you actually are not willing to donate bone marrow, the procedure will be stopped (despite the fact that someone will die as a result - no one has a right to your body but you, according to bodily autonomy). Somewhat more convincingly, Stephanie Gray argues that the unborn child's rightful place is the uterus, and that in some philosophical sense the uterus belongs to the child and not the person to whom the uterus is attached. This is an interesting idea but frankly doesn't make any more sense to me than the pro-choice argument that the fetus isn't a human. The DNA of the uterus matches the DNA of the person attached, the uterus has been attached to the person their whole life and will continue to be attached after the child exits the uterus, so I don't understand how one could argue that it isn't part of that person's body and thus protected by the concept of bodily autonomy. /endrant?
What gives anybody the right to kill a human being
For example, self defense is a case in which people consider it ok to kill the attacker if that's the only way to defend oneself.
But a killing a fetus is not self defense unless your talking about in the case of the mothers life
I disagree. If someone is raping me and the only way to get them to stop is to kill them, I believe that I am morally and legally allowed to do that. Similarly, if someone has an unwelcome human inside them, they are morally and legally allowed to take action to remove that human from their body. The human is free to exist on it's own, but does not have a right to live in another human's body without their permission.
so we are now comparing a rapist to an unborn child?!
He convinces pro-lifers they're really, really right about it all :P But yeah not all that useful.
Would you please explain why the points he made are not useful?
No I'm saying if you don't make points in a way pro-choicers are willing to listen to, then you're basically just talking to your own side. The points may be valid still. But if you're pretentious, they will tune you out, and then you are no help.
Solid point, and thank you for the clarification. In your opinion, what is a way you could make your points so that pro-choicers will listen to you, generally speaking?
Listening and engaging with their points. It's not helpful for us to just rant -- both sides end up strawmanning the other. We're also often not very gracious (I include myself), and then emotions become the dominant force instead of logic/reason ("I'm annoyed at this person so I'm going to stick to my side no matter what.") If you really take the time to understand their stance, and articulate it so they can confirm you have listened, and then respond to those points, that goes a long way.
The CEO of Planned Parenthood will be speaking at Holy Shepherd Church in Lakewood next week. The church claims "they are just a venue" and not related to the group hosting the event. Please take a moment to let this church know that this is a big mistake.Contact this church:office@holyshepherd.com(303) 233-2740Review this church on Facebook.Review this church on Google.  Description of the event: “From State Geologist to Women’s Healthcare Champion” with Vicki Cowart, Executive Director and CEO, Planned Parenthood Rocky Mountains, 7pm at Holy Shepherd Church, 920 Kipling, Lakewood. Social at 5:30. Comfort foods potluck at 6 pm.
Apparently this is an ELCA church who according to their statement do not condemn abortion. Absolutely sickening that people who call themselves "Christians" support murder. Churches that give up orthodoxy for the moral depravity of the world are dying.
The ELCA has gone so far from Christianity. It's a shame just how big they are. Fortunately the LCMC, of which I am a member, hasn't gone down the same route.
One around here actually hosted a lecture by John Dominic Crossan.
I am not religious but that is sick shit u/of_skies_and_seas
ELCA is just as nuts as the Episcopal Church.
George Tiller was struck down in an ELCA comgregation.
I suppose it's not surprising that he would seek a church that confirms his actions and soothes his conscience.
Holy Shepherd Lutheran Church is a member of the extreme left-leaning Evangelical Lutheran Church of America (ELCA). Their national church body's stance on Christian doctrine and practice are so far removed from the apostles' teaching and the Bible that they ought not even be considered Christian.
A fantastic argument for a single, physical church that can condemn groups like this as heretical, as it used to be...
Because that didn't lead to any heresies at all...</sarcasm> There have always been false churches. And there will be until the final trumpet sounds.
They cropped up, but I sure don't see any Arians or Donatists about these days. A single unified church helped prevent problems (such as the OP topic) from being given any sort of legitimacy.
The only way you can have "a single, physical church" is to wait for Christ to return. Until then, the only single church is going to be the Ecclesia, which obviously isn't physical.
...until that church itself becomes so far removed from the apostles' teaching that it ends up condemning countless God-fearing people as heretics. Which is what happened to Martin Luther himself, the (unwilling) founder of Lutheranism. The church is governed by humans. Humans are sinners by nature. The only sure foundation on which the church can be built is the apostles' teaching--that is, the teaching handed down from Christ himself--as recorded in the Bible. All others will eventually fail, no matter how they are structured.
Consider Matthew 16:18 in light of 1 Timothy 3;15, and that there was only one Church at the time. You can draw a straight line from the problems of denominationalism to the things in the OP above. No physical Church means no moral clarity and everyone gets to be their own Pope and start their own denomination that believes whatever they want. I grew up a strong believer in Protestantism and was a card-carrying Baptist for years. I did study on the early history of Christianity and the early Church and one thing that had a profound effect on me is the logical issue that you run into is that considering the texts that were to be declared as Biblical were assembled into what we would know as the Bible in 325 AD and many other teachings that most Christians today accept even though they are not strictly found spelled out in the Bible (such as the idea of the Trinity, decided in the First Council of Constantinople in 381 and the Council of Chalcedon in 451 (which also affirmed the dual nature of Christ - both fully man and fully divine, again, something that almost all Christians today fully accept).  Yet nearly all Christians today accept the idea of the Trinity of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Could we imagine the muddying of the theological waters should we have our present situation some 1600 years ago? The councils heard and discussed many different views, however we needed the theological leadership of a material, physical Church to figure out the actual truth, down to the very questions of what books were to be assembled into the Bible. The idea that fallible men (not the institution) abused their position and fell away from the teachings is rather flawed to me, given that one of the original Twelve was Judas and fell away quite badly - that would not somehow invalidate the truth of Christ and His Church. In other words, Judas seems like a lesson that while men, even those elevated quite highly in positions of trustworthiness, may fail, Christ and the Church are pure to the end of days. In closing, I would strongly recommend this series of CDs which are a series of talks given by Ken Hensley, a former Baptist pastor who became Catholic a number of years ago. He discusses much of the issues surrounding Luther and his theology and why it ought to have been rightly condemned and has made Christianity as a whole worse as a result. https://saintjoe.com/products/luther-and-salvation-a-catholic-response?taxon_id=33
In situations like this one, it is good to use the proper terminology to highlight that it isn’t  a Church. She will be speaking at a Lutheran Ecclesial Community.
#whitepeopleing
What does that mean?
That church is not Lutheran.  the e?ca is not Lutheran.

Some of the messages:
Abortion is truly a sacrament to them. Lord, have mercy.
Truly evil!
Boycott the clinic.  The individual mandate is gone now.  Their income is not guaranteed.
The individual mandate to get health insurance didn't guarantee profits to private clinics.
There’s not a direct correlation, true.  But I’d be surprised if there was none.

But...I thought abortions have been decreasing?
The title and the article are pretty clumsily presenting the Middlebury paper. The paper argues that the changes in family formations during the late 60s and 70s were driven more by legalized abortion than by birth control. It's not arguing that changes in family formation now are being driven more by abortion than birth control.
Wow, ok. Thanks for clarifying that. They probably should have written "WAS" not "IS"


This literally makes no sense. If a fetus really is just a clump of cells no different from a wart then any woman willing to give her life for it should be committed. It would be like a woman willing to give her life for a sperm cell, most people would question her sanity. On the other hand if a fetus is a child worth dying for, then it can't be just a clump of cells. The reason why pro-choice arguments often sound irrational and incoherent is because they often are irrational and incoherent.
It's just saying that some people value things more than others, that there isn't an objective value. Some people consider it a clump of cells, some people would die for it. That would only be incoherent if the same person said both about the same fetus. For example, I can say that a Ferrari is just a stupid piece of metal and that I don't value it, however if someone else said it was a some beautiful machine and would pay lots of money for it, I would say that we have different opinions, not that their opinion isn't valid.
Would it be "valid" for a person to value a ham sandwich over a 5-year-old girl?
That's an opinion but not a fact. If you are in fact wrong then your opinion is not valid. They can be inconsistent in other ways. If for example, you believe that a human fetus is a clump of cells with no value and it doesn't seem completely crazy to you that a person would die for this thing then you are being inconsistent.
No, because you can understand that people have different values than you. If someone values something differently than you the doesn't make them their opinions invalid
You can understand that people have different values but that does not mean their opinion is valid. Unless you are using some strange definition of valid. If there is no basis to your belief it's not valid. And there is no basis to a belief that a human fetus is worthless but you totally respect and don't think a person is bonkers for killing themselves over it. Denying this just seems so dishonest to me.
Someone's opinion can't really be invalid though, if that's what they think then that's what they think. It is inherently a subjective issue so every judgement on it is an opinion.
An opinion is a judgement call made about something. Whether it's valid depends on how sound or how grounded in logic and fact that opinion is. For example, a patient might go to a doctor to ask her opinion about the lump on his foot. She may look at the lump and then state that in her opinion everything is fine. Imagine this patient goes to another doctor for a second opinion. This doctor not only looks at the lump, but runs tests, takes a biopsy and then determines that it is cancerous. Clearly we can say that the first doctor's opinion is not valid while the second doctor's opinion is. In the same way, it might be true that you believe an apple is actually an orange but you'd be wrong and that opinion would not be valid.
Those aren't really opinions though. If I say, that is an apple, that is a factual statement, not an opinion, it can be wrong. Saying that a fetus is a person is not a factual statement because you cannot be proven wrong. Therefore it is subjective.
That's an apples to oranges comparison. Spending a lot of money on something is nowhere near the same as dying for it. If someone was willing to die for a Ferrari because they believed it was like a child I would consider them crazy and their opinion nowhere near valid.
The point was the you can recognize both valuing something highly, and not valuing it at all, as valid opinions. That isn't illogical. I can think that a fetus is not worth more than a clump of cells and someone else can think that it's valuable enough to die for, and I can recognize that both of us have valid opinions.
Do you think dying for a car is a valid opinion?
I would think it's dumb, but if that's what some sane person wants to do, who am I to tell them that they don't want that.

No I'm responding to the analogy by pointing out that it just doesn't work. Yes different people can have different opinions but that only goes so far. Someone who thinks Native Americans are people with rights doesn't have an equally valid opinion as someone that thinks they are inferior savages. Same goes for the person who thinks a car is worth dying for. Some views are simply irrational or wrong. It might be a good idea to get your head around that concept. Moral relativism isn't a valid worldview.
Whatever their opinion is, they are free to go and vote for it, so in that sense it is equally as valid as yours. That fact that many people might disagree with that is irrelevant.
Human life has objective value.

No. Two contradictory ideas cannot both be valid. It's literally a law of logic. I say that both opinions cannot be valid, that one must be wrong and the other correct. Are we both right?
It isn't a logical statement though, it's a value judgement, it's like saying I like chocolate and you don't. Neither of us are wrong in that scenario.
TIL assigning worth to humans is the same as assigning worth to chocolate milk. They are contradictory ideas and contradictory values. So the value judgement "I don't value humans, I will now kill a bunch of humans" is valid? At what point? A personal level? At the level of law? Morality?
It's valid in that it isn't objectively wrong, even if it's incredibly disagreeable.
If human life doesn't inherently have value, then there's no basis for any law. How can you have any rights if your life is worthless? How can I have a right to, say, free speech, if I don't have a right to life in the first place? Some things truly are subjective, but the value of human life is most definitely not one of those things.
The government, as an extension of society, uses it's subjective values to create laws. Were you under the impression that laws were inherently moral? People can still generally agree on things even if there isn't an objective answer.
Pro-choice here, but that would imply that the right to abortion is just a result of people's personal preferences and that in a society where most people were pro-life, abortion should be illegal.
There kind of isn't anyway around that though. If enough people in a society want something, then it's gonna happen. That is one of the consequences of democracy. So it is true to the extent that we put our democratic ideals above our moral ideals.
Yes, but what you wrote would imply that it should happen, which isn't the same thing.
If we believe in democracy then that is what we are saying isn't it? Like I don't think Trump should be the president, but I more strongly think that the person who won a fair election should be the president.
We could believe in democracy generally speaking, but at the same time believe that it's coherent to say "X shouldn't happen despite most people wanting it" (which is what I happen to believe).
Right. But at the same time, if you are allowed to enforce your unpopular but "correct" view, then so are other people. And that might lead to an overall more disagreeable situation.
Is there any standard that could "allow" that? I think subjective morality doesn't have such an external standard.
Everyone on this thread is arguing about whether or not all humans have equal worth...and I'm over here wondering why this is even a question considering what goes on in the world. Yeah, us humans have a great history of correctly determining who is a person and who isn't. No great atrocities have been committed over this issue...ever.....ehm. The answer seems pretty damn obvious to me. I'm sorry but if you argue that not all human beings are people, you better get ready to support the idea that Nazi Germany had valid opinions on that too. If personhood is an opinion, how can the Nazi's be wrong? It's a "value judgement". Not everyone values Jews the same way. Right?! RIGHHT???! (This goes that same for all past and present genocides/selective exterminations. I always tend to bring up this example because, being a Jew, personhood as an opinion didn't end well for my family.)
Because moral relativism and selfishness
I think it's also a subconscious desire to see myself as a better person than I really am. If I can just make up my moral duties, it weakens the feeling of guilt I would otherwise have after doing something wrong.
So you're saying dehumanization is ok because it makes the aggressor feel better about what they're doing?
No, sorry if it sounded that way. I was just speculating about why people believe in moral relativism. I'm a moral realist myself.
I think there are two ways to look at it. With things like Nazis and slavery, what you had was a situation where some people  where being valued differently than other people. The idea that everyone has some equal value wasn't incredibly popular like it is today. It wasn't that Jews or blacks weren't people, it's that they were considered lesser people. From our perspective, anything less than someone else by definition isn't a person, but people in the past would have recognized a gradient among people. Having the gradient among people is what caused those issues, but that is separate from where to draw the line of personhood. If you have a gradient of rights you don't need to draw any official line, you have a hierarchy of groups with less and less rights. When you remove the hierarchy and make it flat, now you just have two groups, one with rights and one without. Removing the hierarchy doesn't mean that every thing then goes into the group with rights.
That's actually entirely incorrect. In the past certain people were viewed as 'not a person', not 'less of a person'. It would make sense if that were the case, but it's not.
Slaves are refered to as people in the Constitution. Different people had different rights for most of history, it wasn't about them not being people, because there was no need to make that distinction, as being a person didn't have nearly the implications as it does now.
Just because they were eventually granted partial personhood, doesn't mean they were always considered as such.
That's not really my point. To use slavery as a specific example, they were talked about similarly to felons today, where we recognize that they are in fact people, just less deserving of some rights. And on the other hand, as I'm sure you can find plenty of quotes saying how black people were subhuman whatnot, that language was also used to describe lots of other "lesser" people. Poor uneducated white people were described that way as well, but you don't see anyone claiming that they weren't considered people. If we use the modern understanding of person that implies that all people have and inherent and equal value, then yes, slaves and Jews and Indians in the past weren't considered people. But neither would poor people, or white women or lots of other groups who we generally consider to have been accepted as people. We all agree that having one group of people considered more valuable than another is bad. And that is what many see as the issue with slavery and Naziism.
Though I agree with this statement, that sub it absolute shit. They kicked me out for disagreeing with Richard Dawkins. The message along with my ban was that I was a "[re]tard". The moderators are literally children. The thread/comment stream in question Enjoy: https://i.imgur.com/L9beY9h.png https://i.imgur.com/cCTBj9W.png https://i.imgur.com/aFsAUfJ.png
Haha, wow
I will not give a lethal drug to anyone if I am asked, nor will I advise such a plan; and similarly I will not give a woman a pessary to cause an abortion. -Hippocratic Oath Source: National Institutes of Health Looks like euthanasia is off the menu too. Edit: missed a letter.
All surgery is off the menu, while we're at it.  The oath is somewhat dated.
No, he's saying that a surgeon should do the surgery, not the doctor (Doctors and surgeons has historically been placed in different categories. Doctor was strictly medicinal.)
I'm aware. It also says that doctors should teach medicine for free.  Like I said, the oath is somewhat dated.
Well it's kinda like going through Nicomachean Ethics and picking out one or two comments he makes about science or certain other moral subjects and saying that just because they're very unusual and dated, that the whole book holds no merit. Yes some parts are dated,  (like profit ventures) other parts are still relevant.
Sure!  Primum non nocere still appeals.  As a guideline, not a rule.
Good thing they use scalpels instead of knives then!
Savita Halappanavar would disagree with you if she were alive.
Oh my. I am so sick of hearing this stupid argument. Savita died of Sepsis poisoning. She needed antibiotics not an abortion. Ireland's law already allowed for abortion in cases where life of the mother was threatened at the time. Why is this a thing that prochoicers use? I think it really shuts down any conversation between us. It's dishonest.
What exactly did she die of?
Savita Halappanavar, a 31-year-old dentist, originally from India, died on 28 October 2012 at University Hospital Galway in Ireland due to the complications of a septic miscarriage at 17 weeks' gestation. The miscarriage took seven days to unfold, and early in the process, when it was clear that the miscarriage was inevitable, Halappanavar requested an abortion. At that time the medical team had not diagnosed her with a blood infection, and her request was denied because the medical team did not judge that her life was in danger. The medical team eventually did diagnose the sepsis and began trying to treat it, and when they determined that Halappanavar's life was in danger they had planned to administer misoprostol to induce delivery, but the miscarriage completed before they were able to. The sepsis continued developing and she died of cardiac arrest caused by the sepsis.
I have two questions about this: If the baby already died, why couldn't the doctors remove him/her? How would an abortion have cured her infection?
The baby hadn't died yet. The miscarriage took 7 days.
And why didn't the treat the infection as soon as it was detected?
They did?
Oh... so she died because they didn't detect the infection soon enough?
Circle-jerk what? FFS


#DefundPP - #BoycottPP!
I honestly think we should charge PP corporate taxes. We can make sure that their blood money at least goes to useful things instead of to killing more babies.
I think they need their 501c3 status revoked too. Or better yet cut all federal money until they have had federal investigation into the allegations of sale of human body parts completed.



How does she know?

