Hello!  I'm posting a slightly modified version of a post I made over at r/childfree about crisis pregnancy centers.  It was suggested that the information could be useful here as well, and might be worth adding to this sub's wiki.There was a recent post on r/childfree about a vandalized crisis pregnancy center, and I noticed a few users mentioning that they didn't know that the so-called "women's/pregnancy  crisis centers" in the USA and Canada existed.  They weren't aware that these centers work to lure in vulnerable women in order to pressure them to carry their pregnancies to term, instead of getting an abortion.So I put together the following information and links about CPCs to help readers start learning. All of the info below is accurate and factual to the best of my knowledge:Crisis Pregnancy Centers (CPCs) are anti-abortion organizations that frequently masquerade as reproductive health clinics in order to lure pregnant women away from clinics that will provide them the option of reliable birth control and of safe and legal abortion.  They aim to discourage and prevent women from seeking abortions’ in order to fulfill their goal of ‘interfer[ing] with women’s ability to be fully informed and exercise their reproductive rights.’”Despite what they imply in their names, advertising, and other branding, most crisis pregnancy centers are NOT medical facilities of any sort. Apart from providing free pregnancy tests and possibly limited sonograms, they do not offer medical assistance.Most of the time, CPCs are affiliated with anti-abortion groups run by intensely conservative religious denominations.  These include, but aren't limited to,  Birthright International and Care Net.  These are groups committed to making sure you don't have an abortion, regardless of your circumstances.CPCs insinuate heavily that they will help you get an abortion if you desire, or will provide significant financial assistance if you want to carry to term.In fact, these centers will pressure you to carry your pregnancy to term, even if you clearly express that you don't want to.  The assistance they claim to offer is usually limited to a few months of things like diapers and formula.CPCs use heavy-handed and unethical tactics, including lots of emotional manipulation (shaming, guilting, etc.),  giving women incorrect, incomplete, or flat-out deceptive medical information (popularly  known as LIES), and tricking or otherwise preventing you from leaving the clinic until you make certain commitments.  If you go to one, you may be forced to watch anti-abortion films, slide shows, photographs, and hear biased lecturesCPCs work very hard to intercept you from going to a legitimate women's health center.  They use branding to make it sound like they offer abortions, birth control, and have qualified medical professionals on staff (they almost always don't).  They offer free pregnancy testing to draw you in, so they can start exerting pressure.  They locate themselves next door or near to legitimate centers, they advertise where legitimate centers advertise, and they will list themselves under “abortion” in online directories and search results.If a CPC manages to get your personal information, they may attempt to manipulate or harass you after you leave.  There have been anecdotal reports of women receiving mailings and phone calls encouraging them not to have an abortion, or just discussing their pregnancy.  This is especially problematic for women who don't want their pregnancy revealed to certain people they may be living with.  Many CPCs convince women to sign a contract that they will carry their pregnancy to term, and then send it—with all of their personal information, including social security number—to every abortion provider nearby to try to scare both patients and real health care providers into refusing women care.It's also worth noting that some (many?) CPC's are, in fact, fronts for adoption mills. Step 1 being to convince the woman to go through with the pregnancy, step 2 to convince her that she's a horrible person and unfit to be a parent so she ought to give up the baby for adoption. See here and here.  Sometimes those places will hook you up with free medical care, housing, all kinds of stuff if AND ONLY IF you agree to place your baby for adoption. There used to be a place in my state that would let mothers stay for six months after the birth of their child if they placed the baby for adoption (for free!) but only three weeks if they chose to parent.  Anyway, some CPCs make quite a bit of money off every woman they convince to both carry the pregnancy to term and give the baby to an adoption agency which charges sky high fees to the adopting parents.It can be tough to identify a CPC.  "Crisis Pregnancy Center" is still a fairly common name out there, but they may also call themselves names such as "Center for Pregnancy Choices",  "(insert religion here) Family Services",  "Pregnancy Resource Center", “A Woman’s Concern Health Centers”, and “Life Choices Medical Clinics” (see here for sources). In California, some call themselves "mobile clinics" and are in vans positioned close to abortion clinics.If you're unsure whether or not a given center is a CPC:you can visit Expose Fake Clinics to see if they're listed.You can also check NARAL's End The Lies campaign's Fake Women's Health Centers list.And here is a link to a list of all the Crisis Pregnancy Centres in Canada.Finally,  At SafePlaceProject.com, you can find legitimate clinics in your area.Certainly people with religious convictions who are dealing with an unintended pregnancy may want to consult with a group that shares those same religious convictions.  But those people deserve to know most CPCs will not be able to or willing to provide them the accurate medical information that they need in order to make any decisions.Please visit these links to learn more about CPCs:Wikipedia's entry on Crisis Pregnancy CentersWhy All Women Should Know About the Dangerous Mission of Crisis Pregnancy Centers - Brides.comFake Health Centers - NARAL Pro Choice America. (PDF of their report here)NARAL's End The Lies campaign (video)The Fake Abortion Clinics of America - video documentary from Vice.com, about 18 minutes longThe Truth About Crisis Pregnancy Centers: These "anti-choice" facilities often masquerade as legitimate women's health clinics. - WomensHealthMag.comWhat Are ‘Crisis Pregnancy Centers,’ And Why Does The Supreme Court Care About Them? An anti-abortion scam, explained. - HuffPoWhat I Learned Undercover at a Crisis Pregnancy Center - HuffPo, and How my job talking women out of abortions made me pro-choice - Vox.  These are both very good articles that show what you can expect if you go to a CPC.Why Are Crisis Pregnancy Centers Not Illegal? from Slate.
Stickied because this is important information that all should be aware of. If you have any additional research to add please comment and hopefully we can get it added to the thread.

Thank you. I do media relations for a local pro-choice nonprofit, and we have been amplifying NARAL's "End the Lies" campaign this week. Information, graphics, and an action toolkit are available at the campaign website.
I'm going to add the link to the campaign to my post, thanks!
Thank you! That site also has an interactive map showing the locations of CPCs across the US. So far I've logged 117 CPCs in Indiana — while we are down to 6 abortion providers. :(
You're doing better than my state (KY).  We're down to just one, and our governor has pretty much declared war on them.  :(
I know. Planned Parenthood Advocates of Indiana and Kentucky have been very focused on that location. It stretches them pretty thin, but we can't complain because it's so dire there. You have our support and we stand with you in solidarity.
Rand Paul is a filthy homo who wants women to cater to homo men who use women as marriage covers.  Typical Southern Napoleonic shit.  Very common in Europe.
Thank you, OP! My favorite college professor works diligently to quell these places. There's one in my town, and I want to vomit every time I drive by.
Tell him or her thank you
I will tell her!
The documentary '12th and Delaware' is about a PP and its neighboring CPC, really worth a watch http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1548865/
Thanks for doing all that research
Planned Parenthoods in many places often do not offer options for women who want to keep their baby. In these cases CPCs are a nessecity.
No.
Except the part where CPC's specifically try to target what they call "abortion-minded women" so they can try to change their minds, and fight against legislation that would inform Californian patients that we have public programs that provide immediate free or low-cost access to comprehensive family planning services, prenatal care, and abortion, for eligible women. I would have no problem with an organization that was completely upfront about not offering abortion, birth control, etc. that wanted to help pregnant women wanting to carry to term.  Unfortunately, that's just not what CPC's, as a whole, do.  And if you are a CPC who thinks "That's not me!" or you know a facility you think doesn't fall under that umbrella, 1) tell me the clinic's name, and 2) distance yourself from your brethren because they shady as hell.
What are you talking about? Yes they do, they cover all manner of options related to pregnancy. CPC’s are in absolutely no way a necessity, unless you want a biased pro lifer telling you to continue the pregnancy at any cost.
https://www.liveaction.org/news/snopes-fact-check... https://www.reddit.com/r/prolife/comments/8390ui/what_are_your_thoughts_on_crisis_pregnancy_centers/dvg8isr?utm_source=reddit-android
Snopes posts sources to back up fact checks. Snopes is known for being neither left nor right. They simply check facts by going over reliable sources. By giving a link to a pro-life slanted site (which don't often have any hard scientific or factual sources) refuting snopes, really hinders your argument. Especially since the link to the snopes page on said biased site, provides numerous links backed with investigations and hard facts.
The person who I linked didn't have any options through PP other than abortion. PP actually refered her to one of these crisis centers you're requesting want to be shut down. You really want to shut down a clinic that provides care to women in need?
My friend's mother who didn't have insurance and was bleeding a LOT early in her pregnancy. When she googled places that would take her without insurance, the address and number for Crisis Pregnancy Center came up. She was on her way there and she called them to let her know she was coming in. They told her they had no medical equipment nor a physician to help her and she needed to go elsewhere. There were pictures of people in scrubs all over the website and the site also had tons of verbiage about crisis pregnancy help and "medical facilities." She headed to the ER but it was a 6 hour wait and she ended up at Planned Parenthood where they ran some blood tests, told her exactly what was going on, and gave her prenatal vitamins that would up her hormone count of whatever she was missing. They also told her if she had not received care she would have lost her baby.  He's fine now and almost five. The false information on CPC website almost makde her lose her child. Tell me, do you really think that misinformation is worth the lost time and fear that they put people through?
So the person I linked was just lying I suppose? Look I'm not for sure if down either facility but if it's called "Planned Parenthood" they should all have options for those who want to be parents.
Personally,  I'm a regular at Planned Parenthood because I don't have insurance and I have irregular periods, they have affordable financing for the meds I need. Most people I've spoken with there have gone for affordable prescription meds and OB/GYN appointments when they don't have insurance. I've met one young woman who wanted to look at options about terminating a pregnancy and they just gave her a list of facilities that could do the procedure as they only had gynecologists who performed exams and ultrasounds on staff. The only time I've heard stories like the one to the link you posted is when I've encountered people who are anti-abortion. I don't know the person who posted that story, and I am not going to call them a liar,  but from my experience Planned Parenthood is an almost free OB/GYN where I can get treated for my medical issues.  And for others, its a facility in which they can get a referral to a place that actually performs abortions. (Edited for grammar)

Hunter- do you feel comfortable sharing the name of your CPC?
Please note that the Woman-to-Woman Pregnancy Resource Center in Denton that u/HunterJK94 volunteers at is listed on the Care Net website (I used donotlink here) as a Care Net CPC. I've already linked to the Wikipedia article about Care Net in my post, but for the lazy: Care Net owns and/or operate many CPCs across the USA. Care Net CPCs insinuate that they are medical clinics via their branding and advertising the information about abortion that their CPCs offer is typically inaccurate at best and medically/scientifically discredited at worst. and Care Net's stated goal as an organization is to persuade women to not have abortions.
Thanks, Sethra007.  I see at the bottom of their page that "All centers listed below are affiliated with Care Net or Heartbeat International"- does that mean one or the other, or both?
By the wording, I'm assuming one or the other.  I'm unsure how Care Net and  Hearbeat Internat'l are related (if at all). Apparently Care Net has an affiliate program.  I'm not gonna go digging around their web site any further (I feel icky for even going there), but I assume that means that CPCs which are not owned/operated by Care Net but support the same anti-abortion agenda and strategies can be listed on their site.
Absolutely! I’ll actually just provide you with a link to our website: http://dentonprc.org
A quick scour of your website doesn't lead me to find any deceptive facts, however I will conduct a more thorough search later.
Please note that the CPC u/HunterJK94 volunteers at is listed on the Care Net website (I used donotlink here) as a Care Net CPC. I've already linked to the Wikipedia article about Care Net in my post, but for the lazy: Care Net owns and/or operate many CPCs across the USA. Care Net CPCs insinuate that they're medical clinics via their branding and advertising the information about abortion that their CPCs offer is typically inaccurate at best and medically/scientifically discredited at worst. and Care Net's stated goal as an organization is to persuade women to not have abortions. Just FYI.
One concern is that they say nurses trained in ultrasound.  It is very rare for nurses to be trained in ultrasound, especially for determining intrauterine pregnancies and nurses are not allowed to read the ultrasound. The techs are not allowed to diagnose based off of the ultrasound. Only a licened provider like a physician (possibly PA, NP, or midwife depending on the practice act) can determine how far along.
I’m glad you are being thorough snd not jumping to conclusions! Having a completely accurate perspective of both sides of an argument is key to drawing proper conclusions, and if you find anything wrong with this CPC, it is important that people know so we can change things
As far as I can tell, I don't really see any misinformation yet. Perhaps you work for one of the very few honest CPC's out there, but your one CPC is a complete outlier in the context of how the majority of CPC's operate.
CPCs are horrible. End of.
Please, just stop. They are centres for manipulation of vulnerable women and nothing more. You can talk it up as much as you like, but suggesting that these places don’t have an agenda that leans heavily on anti abortion is laughable.
Seconded. When people try to defend these manipulation factories they just debase themselves.
It pisses me off so much, because unlike the other type of anti abortion people that are unapologetically vocal and in your face about it, these people try to present themselves as genuine caring individuals that just want to support women in crisis pregnancies, when they are just manipulating them under the guise of care. It’s sickening.
u/HunterJK94, I invite you to read the links I posted.  I did not post my experience, but the experiences of thousands of women in the US and Canada are described in those links. So if a woman comes to your CPC and states that she is there for an abortion, and will not consider other options, then the staff will provide her with the accurate name, address, and contact information of her nearest abortion provider?

I am a doctor and have had patients who suffer complications after being told misleading information by CPCs. One had a ruptured ectopic pregnancy and almost died from it. She was pregnant and looking for help but went to a CPC instead of a place like Planned Parenthood with actual doctors and actual ultrasound machines, and nearly died because of it. In Missouri there is only one place to get an abortion in the entire state. If you Google "Missouri abortion," the three paid ads are for two CPCs ("Thrive" and "The Pregnancy Help Center") and one for Planned Parenthood. The CPCs are paying for an ad to show up when someone Googles a keyword for a procedure or service they DON'T provide. And they do not know how to recognize any type of pathology that may be harmful or deadly to the woman. It is truly dangerous the way CPCs direct women away from real medical care.
The issue is that people think that the crisis pregnancy center is planned parenthood. Many of them have similar branding or very close to a planned parenthood for that reason. It was vey common for them to be confusing near where I went to college. Some would try to confuse patients into thinking they were not pregnant.
I don’t see a problem with providing a CPC near a PP. All that necessarily does is provide a woman with the idea of another option as she glances over. Now the branding I could see being a problem, and that would be a tactic I disagree with, but I’d love to hear some examples if you don’t mind so I can understand just how misleading they can be? The place where I volunteer is nowhere near a PP, and is named Woman to Woman, which I don’t think is misleading either. And confusing patients into thinking they’re not pregnant is awful, definitely not representative of W2W.
The issue is that they are designed to trick someone into thinking they are the medical center when they are not. Laws were passed in California making CPCs inform clients if they are not licensed as a medical center. It takes a lot to pass laws. Studies reviewing wenlbsites of CPCs tend to have misleading information regarding abortions on there like they are linked to cancer or mental health concerns. I can’t locate the stories and it isn’t evidence sonce it is ancedotal but back in 2009, CPCs were getting flake near where I lived for telling people their test was negative instead of saying you’re pregnant.
I know you're very busy, but the link I gave will give you plenty (when you finally get the time to go through them).
(FWIW I'm not the one downvoting you.) "We would...but...don't need us for that" all pretty much adds up to "No, we won't, and our so-full-of-holes-it-looks-like-Swiss-cheese justification for it is that no one would ever come to us for that information anyway".
It is very easy to find a PP. Why do we need to refer women to a specific abortion clinic? I doubt PP ever refers women to us. Wouldnt make sense for them to tbh. I bet PP also doesn’t provide nearly as much information about the fetus/embryo, adoption, or the different methods used by abortion clinic. We provide a lot of information about all sorts of options they have. We never mislead them by saying there are no clinics nearby. We don’t lie. So what’s the problem?
Given how it's becoming increasingly difficult to even find a place that will perform the procedure, providing that information would be amazing customer service. You'd be surprised.  The PP in my state does for those women who aren't sure if an abortion is right for them, but it does warn them what to expect.  It also hooks them up with genuinely neutral resources. And you would lose that bet. Because misleading and lying are not the only way to deceive someone, to pressure someone, or to manipulate someone.  Weasel words, generalities, framing, loaded language, thought-stoppers, gaslighting are just some of the insidious psychological and linguistic tools known to be used by CPCs to manipulate vulnerable women.  And said tools have the benefit of being less legally problematic than out-and-out lies. Anyway, I know you said that this is a very busy season for you. I won't continue this line of discussion as I'm sure you have lots to do, and I apologize for adding to the distraction. I encourage you to look at the provided links with as unbiased eye as you can muster, and at least try to understand why CPCs have earned themselves such an awful reputation, including among women who want to carry their pregnancies to term.
It wouldn’t make sense for PP to refer them to yours because they can perform the services or refer them to the local PP that handles the pregnancy care. They offer it already! You don’t offer abortion services or referrals to the clinica that offer abortion services (not all PP offer abortions on site)
If you are a CPC, you are not a legitimate women's health center. You can't be both. Claims otherwise just reveal how duplicitous and manipulative these organizations are. They are traps set for young girls to fall into who don't know any better. This sub is not the place for friends of predatory organizations that hurt women or the people who have believed their bullshit and like to peddle it. Bye.

Abortion is the safest treatment for pregnancy. Any organisation that aims to dissuade people from having abortions is harming women's health.
More female fetuses are aborted world-wide than male. Not really "healthy" for women. If you want to ensure equality for women then give them a chance to live change the world.
As a feminist, I'd rather have a world where women made up only 0.0001% of the population than one in which they were routinely tortured through forced childbirth.
This is literally anti-woman.
Being against forcing women to endure torturous unwanted pregnancies and birth is anti-women?
Preventing women from being born by allowing gender selective abortions is anti-women. More women will be aborted today than will die from complication due to pregnancy or in child birth.
Female fetuses are women now? That is such an odd statement that I have only ever heard from anti-choicers trying to get feminists to agree to take away their own rights for the sake of embryos and fetuses. Women are not being aborted, because women are grown, living breathing people with actual thoughts, feelings, and plans for their future that may or may not involve pregnancy. I get that anti-choicers are content to allow living, breathing women to be maimed or killed during pregnancy and birth for the sake of forcing women to gestate unwanted pregnancies, but we are not. We would much rather women have the same freedoms and rights to their lives, futures, and bodies as men, instead of having them be turned into second class citizens and be used as broodmares by people willing to have them die or be permanently injured in order to gestate a few more female fetuses.

Pretty sure that is a television show where women are forced into becoming pregnant.
Being able to choose if and when they have children allows women to get an education, work, rise up the corporate latter, support themselves, and plan for the futures they actually want to have and not the ones forced upon them for having been born with a uterus. Being used as forced incubators forces women to drop out of school, take pay cuts, take time off of work, pay unwanted medical bills for doctors visits and forced births, and potentially be killed or left with debilitating and costly injuries from pregnancy and birth. The easiest way to keep women from changing the world is to force them to bear unwanted pregnancy after unwanted pregnancy. Women are only equal if they have the same rights to bodily autonomy as men.
Most women who get pregnant these days are not "forced" into pregnancy (unless they were raped of course).
People are not going to remain permanently celibate or never have sex again after they have as many children as they want. Good luck trying to get childfree people to vow to never have sex. Being a part of the childfree community, I don't think you'll have much luck. Birth control and sterilizations fail and people like sex. I'm assuming you support legal abortion for rape victims since they were forced?
To fully control your life you must control your emotions and instincts. You don't always have to eat everytime you are hungry otherwise there will be negative consequences. You can live your entire life without having sex even once. As far as rape is concerned it is still murder to me. Why punish the child for the crimes of the father? I support elective sterilizations for the child free and birth control but if pregnancy still occurred it's not fair to the child to not allow them to be born when you decided to allow them to come into being.
Good luck with all that lol, people like sex. Sterilization and birth control fails. I think we'll all just keep having sex and have an abortion if necessary. We're not going to be permanently celibate to please a few people who value embryos and fetuses over living, sentient women.

Take it you have never had sex then? It’s called being realistic

You’re the only one saying that. A woman’s health center may not provide abortions but they have legitimate providers such as physicians, nurse midwives, and nurse practitioners on staff and offer medical advice. Most CPCs do not.
I am not the only one saying this (my original comment) however I didn't say anything about the centers so I don't know why you're bringing that up. I think it's great that PP offers women's heath screenings and options for women who want to have the baby, but abortion isn't "health-care" unless the pregnancy could threaten the life of the mother. It is an elective procedure and not a "right".
That's every case of pregnancy.
Most pregnant women do not die. Every aborted fetus dies.
So do bacteria when a person is treated with antibiotics. Guess they're not "healthcare" either.
False equivalency. Bacteria are not humans that will never grow beyond one cell into a walking talking breathing person. An embryo will.
Irrelevant to the person receiving healthcare.

In the thread? Yes you were. Just because you do not like a medical procedure doesn’t magically make it not healthcare. I am not a big fan of penis prosthetics but it still is a medical procedure and falls under healthcare. The issue is that a lot of CPCs are not health centers. They do not have licensed medical staff or prescribing providers. Might as well offer scientology screenings since it will be as effective or take online health screenings. It still is healthcare! Breast augmentation is still healthcare! It falls under an umbrella term. You also do realize that pregnancies are very, very risky and abortion is far safer for a woman? I get you’re not medically trained since you want to run around and debate healthcare but pregnancy in general is a very risky time for a woman. We have lowered the risks in general but it doesn’t change the risk of death.
It's very unhealthy for the fetus.
All pregnancies can threaten the health or life of the pregnant woman . . . luckily, it's relatively rare and most complications can be managed, but there's always a risk, even in healthy women. I understand we'll probably ultimately disagree, as it's a matter or semantics and/or rhetoric, but abortion is healthcare in the same way that the birth control pill (used for contraceptive purposes) is healthcare- that if pregnancy and labor/delivery are health-related events (i.e. requiring doctors' monitoring throughout the process and carrying the potential for morbidity and mortality), then prevention of pregnancy/continued pregnancy and/or labor and delivery are similarly so.
How is abortion not a right? The American Supreme Court has said that women have the right to choose to have an abortion and in many other countries abortion is a right that women have. Many countries now give women the same rights to bodily autonomy as men, that includes being able to decide what you do with your organs and if you are going to allow them to be used by someone or something else.
Because the religious right is pretty good at appealing to heart strings. Keep in mind the US, people are still debating if homosexuals should get married. Let them get married and be miserable like all of us! Just kidding about the miserable part...
Sorry let me clarify, personally I don't believe it should be a right. I understand it's unfair to women but that doesn't justify destroying a growing human fetus unless it's to save the life of the mother. Also, (unless the pregnancy is a result of rape) you already have the ability to "decide what you do with your organs" by either not having sex. If you decide to have sex and get pregnant you have forced the fetus to become dependant on your body.
So abortion is a right, you just don't personally believe that women should have the same right to bodily autonomy as men and you understand that you are in favor of making women unequal citizens. Women are not going to remain permanently celibate when they don't ever want children or stop having sex as soon as they have as many children as they want, people like sex, I for one am going to use birth control and use my right to an abortion if I ever do become pregnant, other women can do what works best for them.
Yeah natural sucks that way, sorry. Why intentionally create someone just to destroy them? That to me sounds unfair.
Women who experience birth control or sterilization failure do not intentionally create an embryo. And what is unfair is forcing a sentient woman to have her body used against her will to gestate and painfully birth a non-sentient fetus and potentially die from complications from the pregnancy and birth. To me that would be torture, fortunately I never have to find out since women have the right to an abortion.

As someone who is the result of an unplanned pregnancy and was born because my mother felt too guilty to have an abortion, fuck you. No child deserves to be born to parents who are not enthusiastic about parenting.
‘Fuck you because I’m alive.’ The majority of people who are alive because the mother begrudgingly gave birth to them value their lives, so I don’t feel bad about. No one deserves to be killed because they’re inconvenient. Your mother wasn’t obligated to keep you after she gave birth to you. There are plenty of enthusiastic mothers looking to adopt. In fact, there are about 36 times as many couples willing to adopt as there are adoptable children. You could’ve been matched with one
Yes, and my mother would still have been left with the pelvic prolapse that resulted from my birth. I'm not selfish enough to think that would have been a good thing or in any way worth it, given that I had absolutely zero desire to be born as a fetus and wouldn't have suffered one iota from being aborted.
Hi guys, maybe you don't know about it, but the bill to legalize abortion in Argentina will be discussed in Congress tomorrow, and right now #QueElAbortoSeaLey is Argentina's trending topic on Twitter, it translates to "let abortion be a law".If you could tweet something to support us, it would be amazing! More and more people would see that people all over the world agree that making abortions a legal instrument is the best way to care for women.Thank you very much!
Done
Thank you! :)
Congratulations!
What if I am not from Argentina?
Women deserve to be protected in every country, my friend. If you believe that too, your support is more than enough. The objective is to show those undecided or in doubt that it's something that people from all over the world agree it's necessary.
Not all people agree that abortion is "protecting women", especially when far more female fetuses are aborted than male. Give women a chance to live our own lives. (It shouldn't matter either gender though.) Anyway.... It's strange how pro-"choice" people don't mind asking for "international support" however durring the Irish referendum any non-Irish pro-life support was equated with Russian Trolling.
Everyone is entitled to their opinion, if you don't agree, it's alright. The reality is, right now, right here, women are dying. Sexual education during the years of the military junta and onwards was non existent, and access to contraceptives was lacking, so hundreds of women ended up dying on clandestine abortions. Here it really is caring for women.
Has it been voted on just now ? 122 to 118 in favour ?
Deputies are still exposing their arguments, they're going to vote later. Last time I checked it was 121 to 120 in favour but the spreadsheet was being updated at the time.
Cool ! Will keep an eye on twitter . Good luck !
Thanks! I hope they approve it 🤞
Found the spreadsheet! It's in Spanish though. Green is pro choice and red is pro life. https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1mOiTT3JIdQPxVLTQ-a3OivQqE15oLvdWMv6I_DpMZak/edit?usp=drivesdk
I absolutely agree on promoting sex edication and education this is the best way to prevent unwanted pregnancy. But this is a separate issue from abortion. Abortion is taking the choice away from an already existing human wihout their concent.
My mother had an abortion. She had an abortion before it was legal in our country. She went on to have two children. I can't say the abortion she had changed the world: she didn't go on to college, didn't stay happily married until she met my step-father at 45, didn't create any scientific breakthroughs or become the spokeswoman of any great cause. She's lived a quiet life. She does call customer service in a call center, had two loud dogs, tries to stay healthy, loves her grandkids.And I'm proud of her. I'm proud she made that choice years ago when the law said she could not. I'm proud she made that choice when she was young and scared and literally endured a coat hanger wielded by a stranger. I'm proud she later chose to have me though her relation with my father was less than perfect and degraded more after my birth. I'm proud she later had my sister. I'm proud she enabled my sister as a teenager to make the choice for herself.So when I see a bumper sticker that says, "Aren't you glad your mother chose life?", I'm proud she didn't. Not because I and my sister wouldn't have been born, which is likely, but because she was strong, decisive, and bold when faced with a decision the law did not allow her. When she could have been terrified into enduring pains she did not want, when she could have doomed a child to an unknown fate outside her control, when her world said she had no choice, she made one.I'm a post-choice child, and I'm proud of my mom's choice.

"sacrifice 40 weeks" ... and risk a variety of life long health complications, possible surgery, etc. Prolapse, incontinence, major tearing, hyperemesis, various illnesses. Then you give away the baby which is often far from easy even if you don't want a baby. They want to make babies so bad? Sign in as surrogates.
BUT, JEEBUS!
For some context, a Facebook friend of mine recently adopted a baby, which is really cool, but I checked out the adoption agency's page.  Practically every post they make is anti-choice garbage. It's sickening. Oh and that picture? That's a protest at an abortion clinic. Way to intimidate women at probably the most vulnerable time in their lives, you evil fucks.
I'm adopted and I'm 100% pro choice. I fucking hate using being adopted to push anti choice propganda.
Let me guess, they make a profit out of arranging adoptions?
I'm not sure about that. I would guess yes.

The thing is, that isn't what they're doing. The only direct effects the "pro life" movement has are negative effects on women, not any kind of help for children. There is no evidence in their actions that they care about helping children, but there is abundant evidence that they invest a lot of time, energy and money into harming women in a number of ways. It got too unwieldy and now I want a break to collect some numbers and sources, clean up the post and check to see if I'm forgetting any major issues. Apologies if there's any repetition in the current version. I'll be back to finish it. These are some consequences of the intentionally directed actions of the "pro life" movement. DEATHS OF WOMEN Abortion deaths caused by lack of safe legal abortion in the US before 1973 Abortion related harm and deaths caused by "pro life" regislation post roe v wade in the US. By: Critical medical neglect of mothers AND babies during birth because of anti choice laws. Anti choice politicians, uneducated about and unconcerned with womens lives, forcing themselves between doctors and patients, effectively blocking best health practices for women from being applied, dooming every such patient to be forced into the often deadly predicament of being forced to put their lives and their babies lives at unnecessary risks in order to survive delivery without braking any laws.suddenly interfering with best medical practices Hospitals influenced by the "pro life" movement, either through ownership or legislation, are many of the same hospitals which are simultaneously experiencing staggering maternal death and injury rates alongside obstinately ongoing financial and operational neglect regarding maternity care. Because of its overall anti woman state legislation problem, Texas is the best known example of this happening. Numerous forms of nonlethal injury to both mothers and children, including long term or permanent damage and/or pa, is another direct result of "pro life" laws intruding into private delivery rooms. International effects of implemented "pro life" policies Women going to jail for being raped because of laws against abortion - IE this scenario woman is raped. woman gets pregnant because they are under suspicion of abortion because they miscarried their rapist's baby. Very young pregnant children being denied abortions after rape, despite the untold physical health risks and huge potential for physical torture and likely lasting psychological trauma that would all likely come from trying to carry a pregnancy to term when not nearly physically developed or mentally mature  enough to do so. If you hadn't gathered, it's a generally wrong, sick and abusive thing to coerce* a woman or little girl into keeping a rapist's baby, just because you want her to for reasons, while speaking from a complete disregard for her life, health, needs, wants, experiences, or well being. Not that going to jail for a legitimate miscarriage is any better. When they gather in any form, the "pro life" movement very publicly and consistently attempts to both act out and socially normalize the following unacceptable and toxic  behaviors: Street harassment and general harassment of women Acting out threateningly towards strange or familiar women based soley on completely uninformed snap judgements about them, especially when rooted in sexist stereotypes rather than reality. attempted assumption and/or exertion of control by men over women, be it through verbal harassment, violence, or establishment of restrictive laws that disproportionately, or only, affect women. They are plague dogs of the  proliferation cultural, institutional AND legal sexism towards and discrimination against women.  rape culture, ignorant sexist stereotypes, and every lie you can imagine about the supposed horrible risks of using contraception or having an abortion, all designed to bully people into obeying them as if they had some kind of authority frighten people into compliance rather than educating people into making The "pro life" movement shares a complete overlap with anti woman efforts beyond the issues of abortion and contraception, such as Opposition to prosecution of rape on and off campus, title 9? Opposition to mandating or enforcing equal pay for equal work often based on a sexist assumption that women's work is actually worth less Spreading abstinence only education models Opposition to contraception legality or funding These behaviors both actively increase the numbers of teen pregnancies, unwanted pregnancies and abortions wherever they are applied. This one is a clear example showing the "pro life" movement  actively prioritizes disempowering women over trying to prevent abortions. And just like the cases of "pro life"rs causing harm to mothers and children through underfunded and neglectful maternity practices in hospitals, helping babies is simply not a priority of the "pro life" movement. It isn't even in the running. Other less frequent but still somewhat consistent behaviors found within, encouraged by and celebrated by the "pro life" movement include: Premeditated murder of innocent doctors and nurses, be it while they're at work or while they sit in church with their community. Domestic terrorism in terms form of planned bombings, arsons and destructive rampages against doctor's offices and clinics. Stalking, harassing, intimidating and threatening doctors, nurses and patients who they suspect were involved with abortion. Extending that abuse to children related to their victims. Spreading vicious slander about innocent people, trying to get them fired from work or kicked out of school, or ruin their reputation, just because they as much as suspect these people dared to do something privately that they wouldn't have liked.  Its not unusual for "pro life" harassment to negatively impact entire families or entire neighborhoods, including young childre, once again with total disregard for the trauma these behaviors can cause to them.
It's not about "saving the lives of the unborn" it's about harassing or intimidating women who are already making a tough choice.
That’s because you are not perceiving the situation from the perspective of the woman.
I was about to say, "Your thoughts suck."
As someone who was adopted and was born to a young ignorant "creator", who lived in juarez (so probably didn't have any sex Ed or women's health education) I WISH she would have had the opportunity to learn and have access to abortion clinics. Thats NOT to say im not grateful for the life I live, I'm so grateful for what my parents did, but they worked HARD to get me. And if it wasn't for literally so many strange coincidences I wouldn't be here, I would be in juarez. That is NO life for a child. I HOPE she got some sort of education so she didn't have any others who probably ended up in their system.
These fucking people. My story trips them up and I love it. My parents planned to have 1 child. My mom got pregnant before they were ready and she had an abortion. If they had kept the first child, I wouldn't be alive today! It's a good chuckle until I remember that to these people, life is a code name for fetus, and women's lives don't count, so why would they care if I was saved? Especially when a male child may have been here in my place. I bet they would unironically prefer that that had happened and I had been the aborted one. Pro life is just a misnomer for the anti woman movement, after all.
Whenever pro-lifers ask how I would feel if my mom aborted me, I always comfortably tell them “my mom wouldn’t have aborted me - she needed me to get out of the military.”
So when people do horrible things, were they destined to do those things so others like Winston Churchill could be great? That is a lot of dead Jews so a handful could really shine.

While I agree with you completely (I'm not childfree), I don't think you have the right to discredit people's desire for biological children as opposed to adoption. It's OK for people to only want biological children in the same way it's OK to not want children. Adopting is not for everyone and that's OK.

Posting this repeatedly isn’t going to sway anyone
Yes families belong together. All the more reason to support a woman’s right to an abortion, many women seeking abortions are already mothers and are choosing to have an abortion so that they can support their already born children and keep their families together. Also over 90 percent of abortions occur by 13 weeks. Abortions at 16 weeks are typically done because of fetal abnormality or life or health of the woman, dead women don’t get to keep their families together.



But of course women who are suffering from addictions or domestic violence shouldn't be able to get abortions. #logic
Evangelical Christians, the absolute masters of whataboutism.
Whataboutism (also known as whataboutery) is a variant of the tu quoque logical fallacy that attempts to discredit an opponent's position by charging them with hypocrisy without directly refuting or disproving their argument, which is particularly associated with Soviet and Russian propaganda. I don't think they're trying to argue in favor of the policy though.
Not surprised.  I asked my mom's opinion on the matter of child internment camps and she literally said, "That's nothing, we have people killing about 3,000 children every day."  There are people like this out there.  Living, breathing humans.
Focus on The Family is a truly infuriating organization. As a member of the United Church of Christ, I have reached out to members of FOTF as well as other anti-choice organizations in the past just to remind them they do NOT speak for all Christians, as much as they would like to think they do. It makes me so sad to see articles like these because a. The level of hypocrisy and disregard for actual human beings is abhorrent, and b. These organizations use religion as justification to push their selfish and narrow-minded agendas. This is NOT what Christianity is about. The United Church of Christ fights to protect the people who already exist, whether that be a child being detained at the border or a woman with an unwanted pregnancy, rather than hypothetical, potential people. Please know that many Christians are not at all like the ones who are a part of FOTF!
If I see one more idiot post on Facebook about how abortion is worse and why aren’t people outraged I’m going to lose my shit. These are children, a fetus is not equal to a living child that has feelings and rights. And this argument is totally irrelevant.

Because they are pro birth not pro life.
That’s because they’re already born. They only care about protecting the unborn, from what I’ve seen.
I have heard that the overwhelming majority of bioethicists and philosophers see no moral conflict with the overwhelming majority of abortions.Does anybody know of a source, article, or meta-study which supports this claim? I'm looking for Something that shows the opinions of professionals regarding abortion over time or something similar to that.
Ask u/Instaconfused27

Reading this brought me to actual tears, my burden has eased so much. I had a medical abortion at 10 weeks, but it failed and I was unknowingly pregnant until 21 weeks, when I needed emergency surgery to terminate. I was always very prochoice, but it bothered me so much that I was pregnant for nearly 5 months before actual termination occurred. I tried to be responsible and do what was best for all involved, including the unborn. But I was that 1 in 100,000 who slipped through the cracks, and that was a lonely place to be. Thanks for posting.
Ah, what conservative lies do to people. Stay strong, you are not alone.  Hope you're doing better now.
I know OP wasn't saying this, but I want to make it clear: there are reasons to believe it isn't present even in the third trimester, but the evidence gets less clear as you go along.  Knowing things about the nature of subjective experience is tricky.
From my understanding, this isn’t regarding subjective experience: it’s regarding whether the peripheral nervous system and central nervous system are wired together such that if a peripheral receptor receives pain stimulus, the signal actually reaches the brain for conscious perception. (If doesn’t ask the question of whether the ability of conscious perception is there, just if the fetus had the ability to consciously perceive pain, can that pain signal reach the brain to be perceived. It assumes conscious perception is possible. In other words, does the anterolateral system [often less inclusively called the thalamocortical system to prevent confusion with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis] and its peripheral inputs exist wired to the brain at 28 weeks?) Fetal Pain: A systemic multidisciplinary review of evidence Note that this article is older than the informational pamphlet above and therefore may be out of date/less conclusive. The ALS begins forming at 23-30 weeks, but it not complete until 29 or 30 weeks (based partly on EEG/Somatosensory evoked potentials which tests whether the wiring is actually relaying signals: if the lightswitch isn’t on, the cord doesn’t have current to send signals to the lamp to light it.) The confusion (deliberate or otherwise) arises because spinal cord reflexes of withdrawal from painful stimulus exist before then. Spinal cord reflexes are those which never reach the brain for conscious perception and instead exist as a protective evolutionary adaptation to protect the skinsuit. (For example, you withdraw your hand from fire before you know you were burned or before you know it was painful.) We know this pain withdrawal reflex exists along with other spinal reflexes without the living brain brain due to animal experiments. The arms of a decerebrate (spinal cord severed from brain) victim of a motor vehicle incident will withdraw downward when you forcefully grind your hand against their ribs, just as a decerebrate cat will walk if suspended over a treadmill. Both of these are reflexes which give the illusion of life but have nothing to do with awareness of touch or pain, as neither the MVA victim nor the cat are alive.
I agree with you, and prior to reading your comment I was already aware of all of this. Articles that say pain is absent before the third trimester generally relate to the underlying physiology as you describe.  In the third trimester, the physiology may be present but some (myself included) believe the function is not present. So when I say "it" isn't present, I meant "fetal ability to feel and be aware of pain." And when you say "this isn't regarding subjective experience" your "this" is, I believe, "discussion of the ability to feel pain in the second trimester."  In which case, I could argue it kind of still is about (the absence of) subjective experience, but it's taking it from a very physiologic perspective. But point is, we agree.
I’m glad we agree—I just wanted to clarify the below point, as I think the term “subjective experience” makes the data seem less conclusive than they are. I also wanted others reading your statement to understand this which is why I 1) never assume people know the terms I use and 2) never assume the reader isn’t familiar with the topic and therefore requires precise definitions (which is why I wrote ALS and not thalamocortical). Clunky terminology is a nice shorthand, but you can understand the concept and not know the words. I guess my issue is I distinguish “subjective experience” and “presence of anatomy.” Anatomy is required for subjective experience, but the presence of the anatomy does not guarantee subjective experience. Subjective experience is stricter/more narrow than presence of an anatomical feature, or even the functioning of that feature. I may subjectively experience pain (emotional pain) when my grandma dies, but that doesn’t mean that a different person (with the same anatomy) will when their grandma dies. Terming it “subjective experience” makes it seem like scientists are at least partially depending on their ability to measure the psychological experience of pain in fetuses when they are not. When my religious relatives try to rebut this argument, this is what they mean when they say “scientists are trying to determine a baby’s (or worse: “unborn’s”) subjective pain” (and argue that this shows the research is ridiculous). My mother is unfortunately very supportive of “Crisis Pregnancy Centers” and they have whole presentations which use this strawman against research on fetal pain.
Well said.


For example:Point of pregnancyWhen it looks humanWhen it has a beating heartWhen it reacts to stimuliThe day before birthPost birth (maybe some people believe this is okay?)
It's physically impossible to have an abortion after delivery.  You need to be pregnant to have an abortion. Every abortion occurs on the last day of a pregnancy.
Touché.
People have a wide range of views on which abortions are and are not "okay." Somebody who thinks, "well, they're fine until 8 weeks" will hear a story about a 14yo who was raped and hid her pregnancy out of shame and now is 12 weeks and they'll say, "well, okay, 12 weeks."  Then they'll hear about a 16yo who had an appointment but missed it because her clinic had a bomb threat and now she's 14 weeks.  Then somebody at 16 weeks whose partner died the week before and then she got a positive screening for Down syndrome.  Then somebody at 20 weeks who just had an ultrasound showing multiple anomalies. Then all of these people again, but add 6 weeks to those gestational ages. I think that individual people are capable of choosing when it is and is not okay for them to continue their pregnancies.
Yeah that’s why I’m asking. I believe in the end it’s not their decision to end the life of a baby.
What is why you're asking? I'm sorry, I thought we were discussing abortions.
Read the post Is it not a baby until the second it comes out? No matter what you call it, I believe that it is just as much a life and just as much alive whether it is a week old in the womb or was just born.
Here's what happened: I made a post answering your question. You said "that is why I'm asking," where "that" is an undefined antecedent and I cannot understand what it refers to. I ask you to tell me what it refers to. You tell me to read the post. Where is the miscommunication here? Why are you on /r/prochoice?  You're not "challenging our ideas," you're just repeating your own view.
Okay how about starting with something specific. I challenge the idea that a 9 month old fetus is not a life. I believe that it is a life. Do you agree or disagree?
What is a life?  I want to make sure we're on the same page.
— able to survive outside of the womb in this case. Equal to that of an already living baby.
If your definition of "a life" is "able to survive outside of the womb," then that depends on what chance of survival you are willing to accept, the weight, whether or not steroids have been administered, the race, and the sex.
Do you genuinely equate a lentil sized embryo ( six weeks) that has no mental capacity with a full term foetus? If so please explain why.
I do so because otherwise there isn’t any one part of it’s development where people or can agree that it is a human and a desperate life from the mother.
Thanks for responding. What are your view on Ireland's recent referendum, do you think abortion will ever be banned again in prochoice countries?
I don’t think it will. Anyways I better stop commenting because someone keeps disliking everything I say. Not very tolerant of you ask me.
Don't take it personally, people downvote the comments they don't agree with everywhere on Reddit. I have received the same treatment on the prolife sub. Que sera sera
Are you really coming into a pro-choice subreddit and complaining that you're being downvoted for your pro-life views? You were already informed about r/abortiondebate, you whiner.
Post birth it wouldn’t be an abortion. I think that it should be legal at any point in pregnancy. In the US over 90 percent of abortions are performed before 13 weeks. Only 1 percent are performed after 20 weeks, almost exclusively because of fetal abnormality or pregnancy complications. Women do not choose to have a late-term abortion for the fun of it, they can be rather painful and complicated. I am not telling women that are pregnant with a non-viable fetus or are experiencing potentially deadly complications that they cannot get an abortion because of someone’s arbitrary opinion on heartbeats or the appearance of a fetus. It is their body and life and they know best.
At what point is a fetus a living human being?
There is no definitive answer to that question. Some believe at conception. Or the first beat of fetal heart cells. Or brain development. Or brain activity. Or viability. Or at first possibility of pain perception. Or at birth.  I don’t think there is a definitive moment and say that life is on a continuum. Though even if embryos were considered living, that would not take away from women’s rights to bodily autonomy, a person cannot be forcibly used as life support to keep another person alive, and since I consider women people, they cannot be used against their will to keep something alive.
When the doctor believes it is medically unadvisable.
What if the doctor agrees it’s okay to terminate it at 9 months?
Then that's what the doctor determines. I'm curious what you mean by "okay"?
Morally acceptable.
To whom? Me personally?
Yes, and please explain why. Now one might say that we shouldn’t base the law off of what some people feel is morally acceptable and some do not. I believe that just because everyone has a different opinion doesn’t mean there isn’t an objective truth.
Fair enough. Your line of questioning here had come off a bit like bait or sealioning, but I'll oblige. For my own self in regards to my own pregnancy, it's morally acceptable until the fetus is viable and term. If it's not viable as determined by multiple health care professionals, even after term, I feel it would not be immoral of me to terminate if I felt it was necessary. I've put a great deal of thought into this as I am 38 years old and currently 29 weeks pregnant; the real potential for my fetus to be nonviable has weighed heavily on my mind for my entire pregnancy. As for other people, I cannot pretend to know their medical needs so intimately. I leave that moral question to the pregnant person herself and the religious/spiritual leader of her choosing.
28 weeks
I don’t think you can compare a human baby to a baby pig, I feel like I get where you are coming from, but that’s just like too much.
Yeah I was going to say that but I already knew my opinion wouldn’t be well received.
This comment ^ and >this one< will probably be disliked.
especially now that I mentioned it* (maybe it won’t be now?) < now that I said that it will...
It should always be legal for a pregnant person to choose to end that pregnancy. At very, very late stages of pregnancy, the best way to end the pregnancy can sometimes be to induce a live birth. I don't think this is OK, but I think it gets morally worse the closer the child gets to adulthood. I don't think killing a newborn is any worse than killing a pig, and that legally happens every day.
What the heck, are you a vegan or something?
I rarely eat meat and when I do it's usually fish.
Tricky situation.-According to BabyCenter.com 19 weeks is the stage of sensory development (sense of touch, smell, taste ect..). This is when entity can be arguably started.-Looks isn't a validation of reason.-Beating heart=/=entity. Heart involuntary pumps blood through out the system of the body. That is all. It's not a form of a sentient being or entity. Pro-life love to use the heart to emotionally sway people. "abortion stop a beating heart" is nothing more of appeal to emotion fallacy.-In-different. People have several views.-Abortion doesn't exist 'day before' birth.-I honestly don't know what that refers to but I am thinking just been born. Yes, that is murder. Abortion is a very tricky situation and I like to think it has a moral dilemma or grey issue. Mother and the unborn can't achieve equality. One has to make the ultimate sacrifice to preserve another rights.  You're either for the mother and be against the unborn rights or you're for the unborn and be against women. If unborn is an 'equal' then surely you should apply what other does and doesn't have in a sense of equal rights. Unborn doesn't have a legal consent (no law that states sex is a legal form of consent) and even when the person consent. That person can withdrawl at any time. Right to life does not determine under the law that one life can use others to preserve ones life, even in cases where the other person caused danger to that said person. Person who caused an accident leaving the victim hospitalized to get blood or organ transfer. The 'attacker' is still protected to not be forced to give up any of his or her organs or blood. Even tho he or she should but he or she is not legally obligated to preserve another life. The mother has the same rights as the person who caused an accident. Law also would have a hard time fulfilling rights of the unborn without infringing of the mother rights. This is why in some cases, government agrues when liability is no longer an issue.
abort anytime up to 8 months
No.
9? edit: 9months
7.
okay, 7 months seems fair.
The person at 27 weeks with trisomy 13 will be relieved that some people online thought that it was fair that she be required to continue her pregnancy another ten to thirteen weeks.
I’m not talking about making people wait the listed time. I’m asking what is the latest acceptable time.
Somebody at 27 weeks who is not able to get an abortion would have to wait 12ish weeks to deliver. ...this is something that I think would be obvious to somebody reading the comments.
So you’re telling me the hard part about it is waiting? I don’t understand the point of your comment.
No, the hard part is being required to carry an unwanted pregnancy and deliver at term rather than undergo a safer procedure at your current gestational age. /u/Instaconfused27, is this really worth it?


Hello! We welcome all challenges as long as they follow the rules. If you put forward a good case or ask meaningful questions, and are looking for genuine dialogue that is encouraged and supported.

I’m a pro-lifer here. I think it’s bad for people to be in an echo chamber, but I also think the chance that you change anyone’s mind here is about 0.000001%
😂
Does that mean you agree or that my comment was stupid?
i thought it was funny and I agree
Yeah. I’m pro life as well. I just want to get a “yes we accept civil discussions” so that I won’t have any reason to get banned. I got banned from “r/PolitcalHumor” because if you post anything conservative it’s offensive and not funny.
I've never seen anybody get banned here unless their comments devolve into "Well, abortion IS murder and you're an evil hag."  We get a lot of pro-lifers here- it's not unusual for some posts to have a LOT of comments where two people just go back and forth until you have to click the link to see the rest of the discussion.  I've only seen those breaking the rules be banned.
So I can’t believe that abortion is murder because I believe killing a human being is murder? (P.S. I’m not calling you an evil hag, so don’t make assumptions like the last guy/girl/attack helicopter that said all Muslims want to kill gays)
Murder is when a human is killed illegally, but abortion is legal. Maybe "immoral" is the word you're looking for?
Well that’s problematic (I don’t like using that phrase). If murder is only dictated by the written law then that creates a paradox making it impossible for abortion to be illegal or murder. It won’t be illegal unless it’s murder and it can’t be murder if it’s not illegal.
well if abortion becomes illegal then you might be able to call it murder, maybe? abortion doesn't mean "legal murder" it means "ending of pregnancy" (spontaneous abortion is the medical term for a miscarriage) (also i think i've seen an argument that says giving birth could be considered abortion but I'm just rambling now)
You most certainly can believe abortion is murder, but having a hundred replies that only say "But abortion IS murder." is not productive debate.  That just ends up being "Is not." followed by "Is too." and so on and so on. Like I said, there are plenty of pro-life folks here who debate.  It just needs to be productive.  I think this line in the rules is pretty edifying: "The sub's SECONDARY purpose is to helpfully and respectfully answer any questions brought up by those who disagree or aren't sure whether they are pro-choice or pro-life."
Okay. I think to keep it concise and to the point I’ll debate in a list format.
I'm not sure a list format would be great.  Just understand that your opinions and morals aren't universal ("I feel/I think/I believe" statements are a good way to acknowledge this) and that productive discussion means explaining your views, listening to others' in good faith, asking questions, and so on. You'd probably benefit from just reading some of the posts here with lots of comments and getting a taste for how we prefer to engage.
Remember that /r/abortiondebate also exists.
What is the logical reasoning behind getting an abortion?
Not wanting to have a baby and take care of it.
That is very close minded. I've had 2 terminations and neither was because I didn't want to care for the child. Do you really believe all abortions are that simple? Do you really believe that all abortions are from unwanted children?
Okay -Not wanting to have a baby -Not having enough money -Not wanting to take care of it
I'm the mother of a child who was terminated after a Trisomy 13 diagnosis. It wasn't because I didn't want the child or I didn't have enough money to care for him. Just plainly saying "not having enough money" is really ignoring the problem at hand. I think it's more to do with quality of life rather than just simply not wanting to care for the child.
If you're honestly the kind of person who thinks all Muslims want to kill all gay people, then I doubt there's very little you can add here of value.
I like how someone liked your comment even though you just made something up completely. I guess you’re the type of person who just likes to say something dramatic and plug their ears.
So I guess you're the kind of person who doesn't even have the balls to stand by what they say.
Wow I’m not surprised at all by this. Tell me. What is it that I said? Hmmm???
lol did you forget about your own post?
Which one? What am I not standing by that I said?
... oh man, here we go. Where did you get “all Muslims” from? What I believe is that Islam is against gays. So is the Bible. Now whether Islam is for killing gays I don’t really know because I haven’t read the Quran.


An NP said it well when he said he didn’t want to deal with no backyard abortions in the ER. Implying that women will botch up home abortions so keep the clinic open so a medical provider can assist them.

I know my opinion doesn't matter much but I'm just gonna say it anyway. I'm pro choice. But I do feel it is technicaly life be it 3 weeks or 8 months. But that life is also a responsibility.  It would be my personal responsibility. I would feel absolutely responsible for caring for that child if i were to let it be born. Now at the moment in my life I dont feel that I could support the child finacialy and physically. If I were to have a child now I feel it would have to take priority over my performance in college. College that I go to to make enough money in a feild that would allow me to give my future child the best that I can give it. So most would say to give it up to adoption instead, but I feel that it is my responsibility I wouldn't trust someone else to raise that child. I allowed that child into this world, I should be there to care for it. And if I can't give the child what I feel are sufficient options/whatever else, I'd feel I would have failed as a parent. I want a kid but I want it to be under what I personally feel are sufficient conditions. And if I dont feel it's ready for this world then I should have the option to abort. I would extend that to others as well, if some crack head mom got pregnant and I felt would not care for the child I would suggest to her to get an abortion so that child doesn't have to suffer a life where they'd probably wish they were never born.Now some people would say its still murder, and yea i agree  to an extent. it's taking a (potential) life away. But if we are talking just potential life then I should be arrested for hundreds of thousands of cases of manslaughter from every time I ejaculate in a tissue. And even if it is taking a life, it's still a life that I had a hand in creating. it's one I'm responsible for. If I were to take the life of another unrelated person, they were not under my jurisdiction, I would have had no reason or right to intervene, thus imprisonment. But if they were under my care and i had the choice of bringing them in this world. If I felt they would do well and prosper I'd support it, but if they were something I feel would turn into a menace to society and/or a problem maker from lack of support and/or proper care I would choose to abort.That's just my opinion though but I feel that I should be given the choice. Do note that to compromise after a certain point of time I wouldn't agrue against making it illegal. Because if you get pregnant, it shouldn't take you 9 months to figure out if you can raise a baby. Debatably you either can or you can't. I know I can't so I take percaution against impregnating my girlfriend, but if those fail me (broken condem or something) I want to have a for sure way to prevent what could be a disastrous life for a child.I'm thinking about posting this on the pro-life subreddit (or at least place to discuss this) as a way to hear if others agree as well just to hear if those who don't would understand my point of view and even compromise on it.
What’s the point of posting this? Do you want us to debate your opinion? Is this a “posting to post” thread? Simply put, we don’t value life the same. A cat is more independent and can show signs of higher thought than a 3 week old fetus. We don’t mourn a miscarriage with a huge ceremony although some may mourn a stilborn which looks very different than a miscarriage.
Yea there really wasn't no reason. I just finally formed my opinion on it and wanted to see if it could stand. Tbh I watched the "change my mind" series on youtube and this subject is one of the topics he chose. Everyone on it kinda did a shit job at standing on their opinion. Was curious if I would fall too. Not looking for a screaming match at all just a nice conversation on the topic with people of different view points. I couldn't think of any other sub that would fit this well.
There is actually an abortion debate thread. Also, murder is a legal term and not a social one
You're absolutely right, but I wouldn't recommend posting a "this is my opinion" post on any opposing subreddit unless you're asking a question.
Yes I agree, but I couldn't find a other subreddit (that was popular enough lol) to post it on :)
No I think it's fine for here, I just meant I wouldn't post in on the prolife sub


It's sad that this is needed.
I want legislators entering the state House to face the same level of harassment.



Hi guys, the fight is spreading to Mexico, Colombia and Peru right now. Stay tuned, this is gonna be great.
Would like to see more members subbed to this sub but people are probably busy doing ground work and fighting the good fight so I'mma just sit here and upvote
[removed]
Hello! This is your warning. If you would like to have a civil discussion about this issue. We are all open to that. Otherwise, your blatant comments will not be tolerated. FYI people who have gone through an actual genocide, such as the jews, don't appreciate you trivializing the term.
Read the sub’s rules...


Until these religionists stop hallucinating that they need to play all-knowing god over the rest of us, they'll continue to push their religionist mandates onto everyone they possibly can, regardless of how many they hurt or kill. How the hell can we knock this arrogance out of them?






Children don't get aborted, and if I'm not pregnant then my finding out about the disability or mental illness isn't the important part. I think it would be okay for somebody to choose not to continue a pregnancy for any reason, including them finding out that the resultant child would be disabled.
Honestly? Yes. Raising a disabled child is not easy. It can be very hard. Some people cannot afford it or afford to take time off to provide the care. If the person needs around the clock care it can be hard. Not to mention it is hard sometimes. Like this guy was basically a toddler in an adult body where he would throw fits that got people injured including biting. The group home won’t take him back. He gets admitted to psych which isn’t appropriate for med adjustment which is hard to do. He spends a lot of time in restraints because he is injuring staff, patients, and himself. Staff is pissed he is violent. He hated me and would try to hit me. Other staff members asked why I ordered him chicken nuggets when he was in the ER in restraints because he was violent. I get he doesn’t fully understand.
I believe it is a moral obligation to abort any child you are not enthusiastic about parenting. Carrying a child to term when you aren't sure you want it is cruel to the child.
Any woman should abort an unwanted pregnancy irregardless of the situation.
I think that it completely depends on the specific scenario of the individual pregnant person. How severe of a disability or mental illness? What would the potential child’s quality of life likely be? How much would they likely suffer? Could the parents financially and emotionally support a child with that specific disability or mental illness? What government resources would be available? Would their other children eventually be left responsible for the care of the disabled child if they decided to have it? The subject isn’t completely black and white and it depends on the situation of each individual person, they know best for them, I would only be able to make a moral judgment for myself.


You commented this yesterday: I suggest you get your own life in order before spreading your negative to others. There are plenty of resources in r/christian r/catholic and r/depression than help you out. Good luck!
[removed]
This is your warning. If you would like to discuss this issue in a civil manner. I would be more than willing to do that. But if you are going to just resort to ad hominem attacks, then you will be banned.


Clearly they don’t care about children. They care about the thought of a magical fetus and once it’s here, fuck it. Side note, this pisses me off now that I think about it. Apparently I cared more about the human rights, detaining people, and separating children than the prolife people I know. They basically said if you’re a citizen then they shouldn’t worry about ICE raids even though one of the raids they detained a US citizen for several days. I pissed off one of them when I corrected him and said he meant that you don’t have to worry if you’re white. He used to be a Neo Nazi who could put aside his feelings for his job



The document can be accessed here as well.



We must always have hope.

I’m a 19 year old college student and I just found out I am 4 weeks pregnant with by a married 51 year old man who has three kids.I met him on a sugar daddy dating site and we hit it off instantly. He said he could help me with school and my financial troubles. At the time, my family and I were being forced out our home with nowhere to go. I felt useless to my mom as I only had a part time job making $7.25/ hr. He made many promises such as he’d give me up to $3000 a month and we would travel and have the typically sugar daddy/baby relationship.When we met, we clicked instantly. He showed me paper work of a vasectomy and a hiv test. After hours of talking things got heated and we ended up having sex. He then told me I should expect the cash on the next Friday. He had many excuses of why we couldn’t meet and why he couldn’t text back within reasonable time. Friday came and I got nothing. I waited til Monday and I sent a text to check on him and that’s when he came clean.He told me he lied about the money and who he was. He told me his name and documentation was true. He also said he was divorced and really liked me but didn’t think I’d reply if he’d just come to me without using the lie. He sweet talked me into forgiving him and it worked. Instead of walking away, I continued to have sex with him because it was amazing and it took the stress away from my life as a struggling college student.Well, it only added more stress when I found out I was pregnant. (He lied about the vasectomy and being divorced) when he found out he told me I needed to get an abortion ASAP because I would not only being ruining both our lives but the child as well and I believe that.  Faced with the biggest decision of my life, I can’t decide whether to keep it or abort it. I don’t want to bring a baby into this mess. We’re not married nor do we want to be together. I’m not financially stable, I’m still in college, he’s almost 3x my age, married, has other kids, he’ll be 70 when the kid graduates and if I keep it, he wants to have a physical relationship with the child (this is a problem because I don’t trust him and it’s just easier if he wasn’t around) I do need him for financial help but he doesn’t need to be around. I really want to keep this kid but under the circumstances, I think that is selfish and a decision based solely on emotions.Either decision seems to be selfish. I am pro choice but I never thought I’d be having to make this decision myself. I’ve always wanted children and believe they are a blessing from god and all that good stuff but I’m not fit to be a mother right now, let alone a single mother. My mother had her first kid at 13 and my sister had hers at 16, they struggled so much  and are still struggling. I never wanted that for my kids or  myself, and I really don’t want to drop out of college to take care of a kid. I want to become an obgyn or a physicians assistant but now I really don’t think that’ll be possible with a kid. I don’t want to get an abortion and regret it for all my life but I also don’t want a kid that’ll resent me and that I resent for ruining my shot at a good career and life.  I really want this child but can’t justify my reasons behind it other than me being selfish and doing the right thing when it comes to my religion. (I’m Christian and believe abortion is wrong and life begins at conception) but like I said I’m pro choice or atleast I was when the situation didn’t involve me.What would you do if you were in my shoes? How would you make the decision? I know at the end of the day it’s my decision but I want to hear what people think, maybe it’ll make my decision easier. Yes, I know I was naive and stupid and I shouldn’t  have done what I did. I learned my lesson and just want advice for now. I really can’t decide and times running out. If anyone has any stories or suggestions please let me know.
I personally would abort if that's what you meant Here's my big question, what resources do you have for this baby? Do you have money, a stable living environment, time, family that could help you out etc? If you don't have a reasonable plan for raising a child then it might be best to go with the alternatives, abort or adopt. I know you will do what is best for you and whatever you choose you have my support.
If I were a 19-year-old girl, I would get an abortion.
First, I'm sorry you're in the situation you are. That dude sounds like an ass. I think there are no easy answers here but something I would do is sit down and maybe make a plan of both lives. You can't predict everything, but making a timeline of both directions your life would go may help you with your decision. I believe in parents being able to do things like finish degrees work and raise children but it's very difficult. Do you have a plan for childcare for while you work/go to classes? How expensive is it? Can your family help? Things like that you may want to look at. Also, Dad will be involved like it or not. He may be fine with just paying child support but you mention he wants an actual relationship. That changes things a lot, how will custody work? What If you two have a falling out and the kid is stuck in the middle, how do the kids he already has feel about this (or would feel about this if they don't know)? You're going to want to go to court to get that figured out and solidly legal so he can't just decide he doesn't like paying anymore or runs off with the kid. You already mentioned he didn't pay you the first time you all met, which to me is a red flag. Is this someone you want to raise a child with? In many years down the line, would this man being in your life as your child's father be okay with you? You know the answer to that a lot better than I, a random internet stranger can help with. In addition, is there someone close to you that you can trust with this? What you're going through is hard and its scary to be alone. I haven't been through what you have, but I'm wishing you the best in whatever choice you make.
Having an abortion isn’t selfish and you just listed several reasons why getting an abortion wouldn’t be selfish. You talked about how your lack of money and education/career would affect your child and the role his father would play and you don’t believe any of it will be positive. People shouldn’t have abortions just because they’re poor or not where they want to be education or career wise. That’s not how pro-choice works. But everything you’ve listed has been a reason to have an abortion and your only reason to not to is because of religion. And I won’t discount that either - religious beliefs are a enough of a reason to not have an abortion. But since you’re asking and you’re open to having an abortion, I would say religious beliefs are not enough of a reason to not have an abortion for you. Because if it was, you wouldn’t be here asking.
I agree with your point about finances not being a reason to abort or not.  Financial stability certainly helps reduce the stress of having a baby, but absolutely should not be a barrier for someone who wants to be a parent.
Yea, it turns children into a luxury to think it’s acceptable for only a certain demographic to have children. And in a way they are but they shouldn’t be.
As a man I can't possibly know how it feels to be in your shoes, but knowing that a child is something for the rest of my life, which I do not want, I think I'd go for an abortion. Whatever you decide, best of luck.
If I were 19 and in a loving long term relationship I would get an abortion. In your situation I wouldn't even consider keeping the pregnancy. Your beliefs are your beliefs so I'm not going to say what you should do, but I would get the abortion. Whatever you do don't count on this guy for anything. He's already lied to you and he's married with 3 kids. He isn't going to help you out financially. You will end up 100% financially responsible for this child. You're also not going to be graduating college in the next 10 years. You're probably going to be living in poverty for some time. Again I don't want to manipulate you into getting an abortion, it really is 100% your choice, I just want you to be prepared for what you're in for. Honestly you should probably go to Planned Parenthood. They're going to be more qualified than anyone here at talking you through this and they can point you to the resources you need right now.
Hi, I am sorry you are going thru this. I got pregnant at 19 and seriously considered doing the same thing. I feel bad even admitting that. My son is 15, and I am ssssoooo thankful for him. No, I was not married nor does the father have any involvement in his life. He is happy and secure and knows he is loved. I promise you that if you decide to keep this baby, you will not regret it.
I have a newborn, and I’ve had an abortion.  I have no regrets about my abortion.  I hope you will not either if that is what you choose.  I cannot fathom how hard these nights of getting up every couple hours with a screaming baby would be (a) if I had not wanted and planned to become a parent, (b) without the means and support to care for a baby and (c) without a committed partner who is doing a ton of the work as well.  In your situation I personally would abort.
It might be wise to consider adoption it you don’t want an abortion. Good luck with your decision , however you choose
Someone's already touched on the religion part, and I generally agree. It's not selfish if you decide your religious views are a reason to not have an abortion, but it's also not selfish if you decide that the other very difficult parts of this situation are a reason to have an abortion. You did say something that stuck out to me though, which was "I really want this child". You didn't want it before it happened though, right? That's why you wanted to know if he had a vasectomy. It's awful that he deceived you, but you also knew what you wanted at the time. Of course, things are different now and it's totally understandable that you would have different or conflicting feelings about this pregnancy. When I'm in the middle of a tough decision I try to take myself out of the current confusion and stress as much as possible. I try to think about what a relaxed and calm version of me would decide, because when someone's in the middle of a crisis, it can be tough to have the mental clarity that they had before the crisis happened. I guess that's a way of saying that if it were me, at 19 and not at all planning on having a child, I'd get an abortion. The fact that this guy is so deceptive on multiple levels would only add to that. Given how many times he's lied, I could easily see him using paternity as a way to try and pin you into a relationship when his wife almost certainly leaves him.
Personally, I would get an abortion. My body, my choice. Likewise, your body, your choice.

You did overstep your bounds. For every successful single mother (where are those BTW) there are 100 more that are struggling. She doesn't have a good safety net to rely on either, giving birth will surely send her deep down the rabbit hole because she's already struggling even without a baby. Also, she doesn't have a child, she has an embryo. It's not just inconvenience when it comes to your body.
Overstepped obviously with that line.  Removed.  Do it again and you'll be banned.
Advice that is basically “you’d be a murder if you got an abortion” is not helpful. Also, if her born kid was inconveniencing her life, she could just put the child up for adoption. You can’t exactly relocate a fetus.
This was a really kind way of providing an alternative opinion that's not often seen. Good on you.
How on earth was that kind?
Usually when anti-abortion folks invade here they're on about what murderers we are. We're all going to hell and don't we understand and blah blah blah. His was much more mellow than most of those jerks.
But they did call OP a murderer. They just tried to act like they were being chill as they called her a murderer.
It's possible they edited their comment. when I posted it was just that he was prolife but knew that it would be hard and that she could do it if she wanted since she already seemed attached.
I agree, this does seem possible.

Sure. Comment and I will upvote that too.
Are we blind? Deploy the upvotes!
Looking at your post history you are just trolling for karma. You make several posts all over everyday on everytopic and repost crap I've seen from last year.
I got frontpage off a repost
Yep, that's Reddit.
Title
I’m assuming this is some kind of antichoice gotcha question and if any of us answer yes because of safety you’re going to say that we do not really believe in bodily autonomy. I would answer that if you support seatbelt laws for safety reasons, you should also support legal abortion, because having an abortion is much safer than going through pregnancy and birth. Though I also don’t see how forcing drivers and passengers to wear seatbelts for their safety, would be akin to forcing women to go through 9 months of pregnancy and then to go through a painful forced birth. One is potentially a minor inconvenience for someone that would rather risk maiming and death, while the other can be considered a form of reproductive slavery and can actually lead to the suffering, injury, and death of the person being forced to gestate against their will.
I'm assuming you do support seat belt laws. If so, "Gotcha! You don't really believe in bodily autonomy." Next: Do you think suicide (for no reason) should be legal?
What do you mean by no reason? I think we should have support groups for people who think of committing suicide, also there is no law against killing yourself (nobody will arrest u if u kill yourself) are you talking about assisted suicide? EDIT (this person is pretty dumb( https://www.reddit.com/r/Christianity/comments/8rjova/atheists_tend_to_have_higher_iqs_than_christians/?utm_source=reddit-android
But I mean should we allow people to commit suicide? (If we can prevent it against their will?) That post was funny
It really depends on the person, a elderly person in the hospital that is in extreme pain and would rather die. I think we should provide then with the tools to do that painlessly
So some people get bodily autonomy and some don't?
I already told you how this is a dumb comparison and how it makes sense to support abortion if you support seat belt laws. There isn’t a law against suicide. How would that even be enforced? And I do support assisted suicide for extreme physical impairments, old age, and terminal illness. I am currently undecided on assisted suicide for no reason, though I lean towards yes for mentally fit people capable of consenting. And there are certainly cases where I can understand why someone would commit suicide, forced pregnancy and birth being one example, I probably would myself if I was unable to procure a legal or illegal abortion.
Well obviously but can someone prevent suicide (for no good reason) if its in their power or is it considered a violation of bodily autonomy?
Do you oppose women's rights?
Look at his post history
Which one?
Fuck you.
No, you don't have that right, not with that attitude.
Lol, I'm a dude too.
Oh
I don't want to fuck you.
I guessed that, thanks.
It's not nice to assume.
No, I do not.
Do you oppose suicide?
I find it very sad.
Should people be allowed to stop others from committing suicide?
I'd say depends on the mental state.  Given that suicidal impulses are typically viewed as being caused by a malfunction in brain chemicals when there are no other mitigating factors (like terminal illness or very poor qualify of life resulting from age or disease), I think it's reasonable to take action to prevent a suicide.
https://www.reddit.com/r/downsyndrome/comments/8rckws/wife_is_13w_pregnant_with_positive_screen_for_ds/
https://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/sl93q/get_out_the_throwaways_dear_parents_of_disabled/?st=jig9ckw2&sh=d4c9bf9c The famous Reddit thread on this subject. I am sure many of those users are still active and would be willing to give advice on the issue.
This thread was immensely helpful.  Thank you so much for recommending.
Wow that thread , so tragic .
Well, to be honest, it really needs to be your choice. Some people are very happy and loving towards their child with disability. Sometimes they are not. Sometimes people are resentful and sometimes it breaks up marriages. Sometimes the child requires a lot more care anyone can give under normal circumstances and requires placement in a skilled facility. Sometimes it may be specialized services that may be offered through school districts. Some school districts have poor or very limited services. Sometimes the child can live in a group home. Sometimes they need skilled nursing care. There is no way to know exactly what level the child will be at. I think the better question is can you afford bith physically, financially, and mentally for a child that may require around the clock care? I know I could not. Could you afford to take care of the child alone? If your wife were to die or leave?
Thank you for your thoughtful response.  You are right.  We keep going around in circles about the possibilities, and the unknown is the worst part.  Still don't know what to do....but we still have some time to think, and research, and Reddit. God this sucks.  Definitely the hardest decision I have ever had to make, and hope I ever have to make.
I’m going to be very honest with what I would do. I would have either an abortion or adoption. I could not afford to raise a child with severe disabilities alone. I don’t think anyone I would date would stick around plus my dad died when I was four so I always view it as a scenario where I am alone. I can raise a normal or close to a normal child alone but down syndrome, I couldn’t.  The potential cost of medial would break the bank.
I am trying to cross-post, but apparently don't know how.....
Clearly, you are thinking of the baby in its current state as a person to whom you owe something. Maybe there's a religious element to this, maybe something more secular. In my mind, it's virtually impossible for someone else to talk you out of that philosophical viewpoint on a forum. To put it another way: for me, this would be one of the easiest decisions ever. I don't say this to be rude. I know and understand why a lot of people would find this to be a hard decision. Still, I think it's important to explain that it would be a very easy decision for many people. Hard decisions are where the choices seems to have pros and cons that balance each other and are difficult to weigh: vanilla vs. chocolate would be a harder decision for many people. Imagine that you think  without a religious viewpoint (e.g. thinking that a child is a gift from God). Now, imagine that birth control failed and you had to decide whether to terminate the pregnancy. If you were going to postpone having a child for another year or two, it might be a difficult decision: maybe we should have this one. But, if you were absolutely certain that you did not want a child, the decision is a simple one: have an abortion. You need to ask yourself the most important question: why are we having a child? You made a decision to have a child...why? In essence, children are great values to us parent... they bring so much joy in so many ways. One of the ways in which they do this is that we get to help them grow up, we get a chance to give them our values, and see them grow into certain types of adults. If this is part of your motivation, then there is a point at which a kid with significant living disabilities is not going to fulfill your core reasons for having a child in the first place.These days, there is so much technology and other support, so one can fulfill one's reasons even if one has a kid with disabilities that would have been debilitating a generation ago: but there's a limit. Of course if you have a kid and they meet with some catastrophe, you will do all you can to support them. But, this is not a living, breathing person yet. Really, only a religious or similarly mystical view can equate a baby at 20 or so weeks with a  full human person. Another important aspect about having kids is that they come with a cost: all kids do. Nobody can ever prepare you enough for how much your life changes when you have kids. So much of your world starts to revolve around their needs, goals, schedules. This is increasingly true as families are smaller and neighbors are more distant. When you decide to have a kid, you with the values against these costs. With a kid who has significant disabilities, these costs (not talking money... mostly, mental focus, and also time)... go up. At some point, they bog you down. Can you get through it? Sure, so many people do? if you have the kid, will you love it and be happy that you had it, and tremble at the thought that you contemplated abortion: almost certainly...once you have a living, breathing -- most importantly, interacting -- human child, you will be a great parent and enjoy your parenting. But, you would lie to yourself if you thought these were the costs and benefits that you signed up for when you decided to have a kid. Sometimes nature messes up. It's part of life, but you don't have to resign yourself to it anymore than you would resign yourself to some other tragedy for which you have an easy solution.
Hey I want to start by saying I'm so sorry you're having to go through this especially on top of your previous losses. It's not fair. I'll try to keep this reasonably short but we found out after our baby was born that he has Down Syndrome - all our screenings were normal throughout the pregnancy so it was the biggest shock of our lives. During his month long NICU stay we agonized over what to do and eventually settled on making an adoption plan for our baby. We did a ton of research and talked to everyone we could (doctors, staff from Down Syndrome clinics, etc.). We knew that we could have made it work but when we looked at other families and found one that could do it better we made our choice so that he would have the best chance at a good life. Our child is with a family whose first choice was a child with Down Syndrome. He has a sibling who also has Down Syndrome, two parents who work part-time and can both be at every appointment, grandparents who are financially independent and available to help with childcare. These are things we could not have given him. My husband and I also both felt we would not be able to have another child if we would have chosen to parent our son because we didn't feel it was fair to knowingly place the burden of his care after we die on a younger sibling. We love our baby but given the chance we would have ended the pregnancy. Even though he has an excellent chance of being high functioning due to being so healthy - he doesn't need any surgeries like many babies with DS do, I still know he will probably never be completely independent. My heart breaks every day knowing our son will never have the chance to be normal, will never have the chance to blend in, will always have a recognizable disability. It is very hard to go on for us. Some days it feels like the rest of my life will be viewed through this lens of sadness even though I know we will eventually heal. It has been hard to go back out in the community - everyone sees you are pregnant and then you're not pregnant any more and there's no baby and people want to know what happened. I really didn't want to lie and tell people he died so then I had to explain our choices. People are generally supportive but there are those who think (and tell you) 'oh I would never give my baby away'. People who are not in our situation and never will be all feel free to share their opinions on our life. An excellent book that really helped me is 'Shattered Dreams, Lonely Choices' by Joanne Finnegan. It is older and adoption-oriented but I think it could also be helpful in your situation. For me reading about other parents in similar situations having the same thoughts was very comforting. Please feel free to message me any questions you may have, my heart goes out to you and your wife.
Think about the child's quality of life. And yours and your wife. Will your child be able to take care of themself at one point? Who will care for them when you and your wife are gone? Will they be able to have a "normal" shot at a life of their own? Have their own career, independence or family?
I volunteer with a group of DS kids on occasion. In a lot of ways, they're just like any other children. They run around like maniacs. They give random hugs. They have a great sense of humor, and many of them love to dance. There is a spectrum of mental disability there that varies from child to child. Some are verbal, and some aren't but they communicate in other ways (tablet or sign language). I'm not a parent. I only see these kids on special occasions. It's a much different story to be parenting children with this disability. They have special needs and they require more attention than non-DS children. What I would recommend to you is to come up with a list of things that you and your wife are willing to commit to, and what is out of the question. Then ask parents of DS children to be very honest and candid about both the good things and the bad things, and see if this is something you are willing to take on. If the answer is 'no', that doesn't make you a bad person, it just means you're being true to yourself and not committing to something that will be way over your head. I think the major question you'll need to answer is, are you willing to commit a lot of time and effort into raising a child, without that common assumption that they'll be able to be independent upon reaching age 18? Only you and your spouse can honestly answer that. (I'm not trying to sound like Negative Nelly, btw. In fact I love volunteering with DS kids. I just think you should answer those serious questions you have now, and do it truthfully. Get answers from the parents who know what it's like. Then make your decision, and move forward with no regrets.)
This must be an incredibly difficult time for you, I’m sorry you are facing it. As a pro-choice woman, I believe it’s ultimately your wife’s choice as it’s her body. Hopefully she will hear your opinion on it though, as her husband. And hopefully whatever the choice you can move on as a married couple with whatever comes next. You may have religious beliefs that make this more difficult, I don’t know. Right now you see this as a child in the future but right now it is not the same as a full term baby. A 13 week fetus is tiny. There is essentially no brain function, it cannot survive outside the womb. I know to you it’s your child and I respect that, just want to put this in perspective. A termination is a safe and quick procedure and your wife will recover. There’s no reason you shouldn’t be able to try again. There are pros and cons to both sides. Some women regret terminations. Some parents regret having a child with disabilities. Your child could function at a high level and live a pretty normal life. Or your child could be low functioning and live at home for the rest of their life. The latter costs much much more and not just monetarily. These are things to consider. Can you afford the possibility of putting your child in a facility if he/she needs care you can’t give? Can you handle possibly outliving your child? Can you handle giving up your retirement to care for a disabled, adult child? Potentially working for many more years to make ends meet for everyone? If you have other children what does this mean for them, their time with you and their financial stability? Can your marriage withstand it? Can you handle this alone if your wife were to die for some reason? Can she handle it if you died? These are worst case scenarios but you should prepare for all possibilities. And if you both can handle it no matter what then that’s awesome. But there’s absolutely no shame in saying you can’t and choosing a termination. You can also choose adoption, but going back to your normal life after will be hard. People will know your wife was pregnant and wonder what happened. You most likely will be judged by some. Depending on your state her family or yours could make things difficult. That child will be out there in the world and could find you someday. That’s a hard option too. This is a terrible decision to have to make. You’re in my thoughts.
Abort it. Why take a chance on causing misery to yourself, your wife, your marriage, and your kid? You can always try again. Or better yet, adopt. Edit: as an added note, the Down syndrome community you posted to seems to largely focus on the positives. More often than not humans will be vocal if something is going right in their life, but if their life is a shit hole, they’re less likely to talk about it. Especially if there’s an element of shame involved (like hating your life because your kid is a vegetable and can’t do anything for themselves).  You can either spend the money to abort and be done with it, or spend 10x as much money to try and regain any semblance of a “normal” life for a disabled kid that won’t be able to live up to their full potential if they had been born healthy.
This has been linked to from /r/prolife : https://www.reddit.com/r/prolife/comments/8s3db6/wife_is_13w_pregnant_positive_screen_for_down/ I want you to be aware that you may be receiving messages and comments that take an angle on this which you were not soliciting. How are you doing?  Also, at 13 weeks remember that it's a screen not a diagnosis.

Just one critique; Ova and sperm are not “alive”. It’s ridiculous to me, but they’re not considered “alive” because they don’t reproduce, they’re made by testes and ovaries.
Really? I would say sperm are alive. Otherwise, you would agree the content is very good?
Yes. Aside from that, there aren’t any other flaws that jump out at me

Good, glad they got arrested
Self-righteous religionists won't acknowledge they do more harm than good.
Why even grant them probation at that point? Just toss them in the county jail for a few months, give the clinic some reprieve.


Dr. Parker has said many times that it isn't uncommon to see protesters show up at the clinic as patients.
If a protester came to my clinic, I would refuse to give them my services. Make them drive 5 hours to the next clinic.
I would never tell a doctor that they have to accept a patient, but I am reminded of this story from Susan Wicklund, as told in her book This Common Secret: My Journey as an Abortion Doctor:

This subreddit has made me realize how many countries have  difficulties with abortions. I knew it wasn't great here in the USA but I had just assumed we were the only ones outside the middle east whose government were run by conservative fundamentalists.
Restrictions do tend to coincide with highly religious lees developed countries http://www.worldabortionlaws.com/

Hey, readers (and mods!) of /r/prochoice!  Let me know: Do you want this kind of BS, anti-choice propaganda deleted or tolerated?

The answer, of course, is: Mr. Fournier is conflating "life" and "a life," where "life" refers to cellular biological activity of any kind, and "a life" refers to personhood and the continuum of our individual selves being alive that we have felt and live each day.
It isn't that it's not considered life. It's that it doesn't supersede the woman's bodily autonomy
Being alive does not give the zygote full human rights— including the right not to be aborted during its gestation. A single-cell ameba also coverts nutrients and oxygen into biological energy that causes its cells to divide, multiply and grow. It also contains a full set of its own DNA. It is just as alive as the zygote, but we would never defend its human rights based on that fact. If we are going to use Mr. Fournier's criteria for life then this poor fellow would not be considered alive.
Women aren't planets! Because women aren't planets, preserving bacteria found on Mars would not require forcing a woman to remain pregnant against her will. Excitement about bacteria found on Mars would be exciting for one or both of the following reasons: it's completely different than what we're already aware of on Earth and thus represents a new frontier in research and understanding, or it's similarly carbon-based and suggests that said planet could potentially be a habitat for us.  These are considerations that aren't really present when it comes to a woman getting an abortion here on planet Earth.
Why would a zygote be considered life but not a woman, a human being?
Life on another planet, no matter how minuscule and basic, is highly sought after and yet to be found, while pregnancy is absurdly common. Hell human life itself is absurdly common, there are 7 and a half billion people alive today and fetal heartbeats do not mean sentience. Humans are not a rarity or endangered, neither are embryos and fetuses.


And over on the front page of the pro-life subreddit there is a article about how we are seeing the "Dying Gasps" of the abortion industry. I guess both side enjoy declaring victory, or at least declaring there victory is inevitable.
One side has less harm and costs everyone less, and it's got the facts, the developed world, science, and the next generation on its side. The other has religion and corrupt politicians. Not so equal after all.
True, but sadly religion and corrupt politicians are a pretty even match for facts and science, at least in America today.
To the older generations.  They're about to be outnumbered by the pro-choice internet generation.  That's the point of the article.
For real.  I've stopped clicking on anything that's a national poll on general attitudes towards abortion.
Except their article is from 2017 and doesn't look at the reality of the issue. I think one main issue you are excluding here is the support for Roe v. Wade. Which actually remains really high. More than 40 years after the Supreme Court’s Roe v. Wade decision, 69% of Americans say the historic ruling, which established a woman’s constitutional right to abortion in the first three months of pregnancy, should not be completely overturned. http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/01/03/about-seven-in-ten-americans-oppose-overturning-roe-v-wade/ So while one could argue that people's personal opinions on abortion reflection a strong minority of those are who are pro-life. The legal reality is that many Americans actually don't support the overturning of one the most fundamental laws that allows for Abortion. Also, it's worth looking at the Trajectory of the issue. The majority of young people are now shifting towards pro-choice views. The percentage of young adults saying abortion should be legal in all or most cases has risen 10 percentage points since 2015. According to the Public Religion Research Institute (PRRI), a quarter of 18- to 29-year-olds say they have become more supportive of abortion rights in recent years; only nine percent have become less supportive. In one 2014 study, PRRI found that 65 percent of millennials said the term pro-life describes them "at least somewhat well" while 74 percent of this same survey respondents said the term pro-choice describes them well. And while 52 percent said abortion is "morally wrong" (compared to only 36 percent that said was "morally acceptable"), slightly more—55 percent—agreed that abortion should be legal in all or most circumstances. The latest PRRI survey suggests that some of this ambiguity around abortion is shifting. In the most recent poll, just 44 percent of 18- to 29-year-olds say that abortion goes against their personal morals. (For respondents 65 and up, the number is 60 percent.) And 65 percent agreed that abortion should be legal in all or most cases, up from 55 percent in a 2015 PRRI poll of millennial's. https://reason.com/blog/2018/04/18/young-people-shifting-left-on-abortion So the fact of the matter is yes. While there are a lot of people that have personally pro-life views and a smaller contingent that would like to see restrictions. The majority of Americans support legal abortion. And that support is only going to get stronger based on the trends of young people.
Unless there views change as they get older and start families. I have friends who were pro-choice, or never really though about abortion, but once they had a child then protecting the unborn became very important. I'm not saying this happens with everyone, but many peoples opinions tend to get more conservative as they get older.






When we know that banning abortion increases the number of bankruptcies, maiming, and deaths of women, people who want to ban abortion are knowingly committing violence against women. The only way to reduce abortion rates is complete, free, legal, safe, easily-accessible reproductive health care.
It's not voilence but it is definitely detrimental to nit only women but society as a whole

Thank you.  The results they get are awful. For more material on this, read: https://plancpills.org/



I love how she acts like science and magic are interchangeable. Nutter



Misleading title.  Splitting the total poll into the black/white for/against obscures the nuances of both people's opinions and already existing law. Considering all the horrible misleading trash out there the pro-life people like to tout, the numbers are encouraging.  Abortions don't make you depressed, cancerous, or infertile; contraception does actually work and isn't abortion; restricting/banning abortion doesn't reduce abortion rates. https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2016/12/abortion-doesnt-cause-anxiety-or-depression/510575/ https://www.huffingtonpost.com/lara-huffman/does-abortion-cause-breas_b_5639944.html http://www.nbcnews.com/id/20285065/ns/health-pregnancy/t/abortion-pill-doesnt-harm-future-pregnancies/#.Wx8P5opG31I https://www.cdc.gov/reproductivehealth/contraception/index.htm https://www.guttmacher.org/gpr/2014/12/contraception-not-abortion-strategic-campaign-antiabortion-groups-persuade-public https://www.bustle.com/articles/160450-anti-abortion-laws-dont-reduce-the-abortion-rate-new-study-finds-and-thats-not-all https://www.cnn.com/2018/03/21/health/abortion-restriction-laws/index.html https://broadly.vice.com/en_us/article/wnwm8q/banning-abortion-doesnt-actually-reduce-abortion-rates-at-all


read it, still pro-life
Could you elaborate why?
Read it, still fairly pro-choice (want strong health related regulations for later term abortions, easy access elective for earlier), but not thanks to articles like this.  Bloody ridiculous article. Edit: for some reason when saved the bullet points become 1,1,1,1 ... obviously it should be 1,2,3,4 ... following the article's points. Claim: pro-lifers fail to distinguish between genetic life, biological life, and ‘legal’ life (seen somehow as inherent. Claim: The legal life of the individual human organism begins at birth or at the equivalent (the point of viability). The infant can now (birth) be adopted by those willing to accept the costs of its dependency. This is a proper dividing line for a society that claims to value freedom. 2. Since the unborn human organism is a person it deserves rights.  It is not a person (see above). Moreover, to grant it rights means to abridge a woman’s rights. There is no such thing as a right to enslave. 3. The majority of Americans (a majority of women is a variation on this theme) are pro-life, that is, they believe abortion is murder. Therefore, if abortion is once again made illegal, such laws will represent the will of the people. It is obvious to anyone familiar with our Constitution that basic human rights are not subject to a vote. The right to abort either is or is not a basic human right. If it is a basic human right, it is not subject of the will of the people. 4.  Furthermore, once cloning is perfected, everyone ought to save each and every cell of their bodies rather than allow potential humans to go to waste. A variation on this theme is often put to an individual in this manner: “If your mother had an abortion, you wouldn’t be here. Since you value your life, then it would have been a bad thing if your mother had aborted you.” Moreover, people who believe that a fertilized egg is or contains a “soul” are the same people who believe in heaven. Seems to me that if eternal bliss is the supernatural end of all innocent or redeemed human life, then dying as an embryo is like winning the lottery. No pain and infinite gain. Unlike the rest of us mortals who have to suffer some before we’re allowed to go back to God, embryos take the fast lane to heaven. 5. Pregnancy is not the inevitable consequence of sex. When any accident occurs, it is normally in one’s own interest to mitigate the consequences of those actions; that is not irresponsible but sensible…Abortion is an attempt on the part of a woman to return herself to the same condition she was in before she became pregnant. Now the pro-lifer might argue that comparing pregnancy to a car accident is meaningless because pregnancy is “natural” and a car accident isn’t. I would respond by stating that human beings “interfere” with “nature” all the time and that such “interference” is “natural” for us. 6. Women somehow instinctively know that abortion is wrong because if it was right no woman who had an abortion would ever feel guilty.  This begs the question or rather many questions. Is overeating immoral? How about smoking, drinking, or gambling? 7. Summary: pro-choicers call abortion a tragic choice, they take it seriously enough. 8. Abortion produces a disrespect for life.How so? “Disrespect” needs to be quantified if this argument is to be subject to any kind of proof. 9. Abortion is not part of God’s plan.  Oh, yes it is. If one believes that God created nature, then God is responsible for the destruction of billions of the unborn in short order, a natural holocaust regarded as irrelevant by pro-lifers. Why the cavalier attitude toward miscarried “children”? Seems to me that a dead fetus is a dead fetus regardless of who destroyed it. 10. Abortion is a peculiar institution, akin to slavery. 11. If and when artificial wombs are developed, there will no longer be any justification for abortion.  If every implanted embryo was saved from abortion through artificial wombs, tens of millions of additional children would be born each year all over the world. 12. Legal abortion promotes promiscuity and immoral sexual behavior since fear of pregnancy no longer acts to restrain sexual impulses. 13. Abortion hurts women, therefore pro-lifers are the real feminists. Note: I just bashed this out as thought it strange such a badly thought out article would be created.  I hope the writer thinks a bit more before writing.  Most of the points only work if already from a position with complete disregard for the value of the unborn, as it is not even factored into the claims.  This contradicts even some pro-choice positions (like mine, I see value but limited prior to certain stages of brain development).  Finally, the key point of why the legal position on abortion based on viability is correct is more stated than argued - without this point clear the rest of the positions are merely opinion.




However it's more dangerous and expensive for women,so, goal achieved.
That site needs an editor. "ISN'T" decreasing, not "AREN'T." eyeroll Also, Trump sucks.

Look at this prime example of fiscal responsibility and the respect for human dignity from the "Pro-Life" party. They are considering cutting safety programs and things that actually help people to fund their crusade for laws that harm women and children.

Yes I do. Sorry about that. Hope the message was clear.


This is great!
This is sad :(
Elaborate?
I'm pro life, I don't think women should have abortions unless their lives are in danger. And I think people from any side should have the right to protest against the other side. Being sent to jail just for expressing their views seems a *little* excessive. Although I disagree with your views, for example, I'll certainly defend your right to express them. Just because we may have different views, doesn't mean one side has to shut the other down. (I'm a woman, for context.)
Last time I went to Planned Parenthood, a man spit on me. Is that okay? Nobody protests outside of hospitals, hospitals perform abortions. Those protesters are intense, they reduce women to tears. You don't know what the women entering that office are going through. It could be a 16 year old rape victim who just doesn't want her rapist's baby. Maybe it's someone who already has 4 kids, and knows if she has a fifth her and her kids will go hungry. Maybe it's someone trying to escape an abusive relationship and knows a baby will tie prevent her from leaving. Maybe it's an alcoholic or drug addict who knows she isn't gonna quit, and knows the baby is going to be born with problems. You have the right to protest, sure, but too many people take it too far. It's not protesting when you call women seeking an abortion a whore, or a slut. Or you block people from entering a medical facility. You have the right to protest, you don't have the right to impede my right to medical services.
How about your side stop firebombing clinics and murdering providers? I say, sure, have the right to protest in a country where the 2nd amendment is also protected. But remove the right of these clinics to arm themselves against your insanity, and I say, nope, you don't have the privilege anymore. You lost it. In Australia, they have no right to open carry, or bear arms, so how can individuals seeking abortions or providing abortions individually protect themselves from your literal insane stalkers, harassers, assaulter and "pro-life" terrorists? You really expect to be granted that right instead of the safety and lives of others? Funny, because pro-lifers main argument revolves around something similar to this. That the safety and life of the fetus is more valuable than the "mere bodily rights" of the woman. It's exactly these terrorist acts and assaults and batteries of women seeking abortion that I am pro-2a here in the US. Don't think I don't see the Christianist, fascist right for what it is. A constant threat to women's lives. And to the lives of those who dare oppose it in any other way, gay or straight, male or female.
They can presumably still protest for example at government offices (would probably do more to influence politics anyway because lets be honest politicians largely don't care until it affects them directly), just not where women are getting health care. I'm also not allowed to protest in your house, even though I disagree with you, for example.
It’s not they are expressing views, it is they are harassing and assaulting women
Harassing women on their way to get medical care is not okay. I’m not sure about Australia, but protesters outside of clinics in the United States are often aggressive and destructive.
They will assault, stab, fire bomb, send death threats, murder and shoot up abortion clinics, providers and patients. So yeah, they're fucking terrorists.
I am really sorry you got a huge spade of downvotes and a bit of hostility for expressing your opinion. I would like to respond and echo some of the points made but in a more civil manner. I completely support this too. I don't know if you are from the U.S, but we have this huge protest called the March For Life that is in D.C and is one of the biggest pro-life protests in the country. I am intellectually and morally opposed to the march and its goals. But I support its practice and hope to attend one day because I believe in free speech and I think individuals should have the right to voice their opinions to our government. What I am not okay with is interfering in a someone's medical decision and in many cases, these protests outside of clinics contain issues of harassment which is wrong. That is why I support this ruling. I don't know what denomination you are, but Cardinal Cupich an Archbishop had a really good take on this issue. Cupich discouraged priests and seminarians in his diocese from participating in demonstrations in front of Planned Parenthood clinics or supporting 40 Days for Life, a pro-life movement that conducts vigils at abortion clinics. Cupich later clarified his position through a statement that said that while he wouldn't forbid priests from praying outside the clinics, he believed that "Decisions about abortion are not usually made in front of clinics — they’re made at 'kitchen tables and in living rooms and they frequently involve a sister, daughter, relative or friend who may have been pressured or abandoned by the man who fathered the child.'" And once again I completely agree, I all for civil debate, protest and expressing views. Just not at the expense of others in the capacity for them making private decisions.
People have the right to express their opinion, yes, but not to harass people who are simply going to the doctor. I went into a Planned Parenthood a year ago to have an ovarian cyst looked at, and having to deal with protesters holding up pictures of dead babies outside was not something I desired or deserved. I was there to get medical attention and I don't deserve to be harassed for that, nor does anyone else. All those protesters did was make me feel like pro-lifers have even less compassion for those in dire situations than what I had previously thought.
So I thought of this analogy a while ago in response to the idea that an unborn fetus has the "right to live" and wanted to see what you guys thought of it.Imagine two people, Rick and Dave. Each of them has a cucumber, but you are being forced to take a cucumber away from one of them of your choosing.Rick loves cucumbers, and really wants to eat his after you've made your decision. He can't wait to sink his teeth into that juicy cucumber (I think they're juicy- I've never actually eaten one). Dave does not like cucumbers. It doesn't make a difference to him whether he has a cucumber or not.You have to take a cucumber from one of them, so whose do you take? The obvious answer should be Dave, because he doesn't care if his cucumber is taken.Now imagine Mary. Her contraceptives and birth control failed, and by lousy chance, she's ended up pregnant. She knows she's not ready for a kid, and wants to get an abortion. You're voting on whether or not she should be allowed to do so.If you vote yes, you are taking away the fetus' perceived right to life. If you vote no, you're taking away Mary's right to bodily autonomy.Mary really cares about her right to bodily autonomy, and is worried about what will happen to her should she be forced to carry the fetus to term. The fetus, on the other hand, does not have the mental capacity to care about whether or not its rights are infringed upon- it's not aware one way or the other.So if you have to vote to take away the rights of one of them, wouldn't taking Mary's right to bodily autonomy be analogous to taking away Rick's cucumber?
This is the crux of it for me. Forcing a fetus to be born is not benefiting it in any way. You don't know it would want that, so you could actually be violating its autonomy by forcing it to be born. You do know what the host wants, so her desires are what matters.
In what way is killing a fetus a benefit to the fetus?
It's neutral.
Is killing a post-born human being likewise neutral to the extent of its benefit to the human being? edit
Depends on the human being's preference as to whether they want to continue living. If they have no preference, it's neutral.
So if preference determines benefit, and a fetus has no preference as to whether it wishes to continue living, how can you say that “Forcing a fetus to be born is not benefiting it in any way.”   Wouldn’t it also be neutral?
Yes. Neutral = not benefiting.
How can you say that the fetus has no preference as to whether it lives in light of the human survival instinct?
It is physically impossible to have an instinct of any kind without a functioning brain in which to have it.
But there is brain activity as early as 20 weeks.  The surivival instinct must develop at some point in fetal development, at least between 20 weeks and birth.

I have questions.
Are you sure you're ready for the answers?
No, but that's a risk I'm willing to take.
Then ask at your own risk.
What is it about your life that has resulted in you never eating a cucumber?
I'm super picky. Family thinks I'm a supertaster- I can't stand most normal foods and it makes me super obnoxious to eat with.
So did you try it once?
No- every time I try to get over this shit, I end up regretting it and it really upsets me. Seriously, even mashed potatoes and things like beans are enough to make me gag. It's a nuisance to myself and anyone who wants to eat with me.
I was not ready for this answer.
You got what you asked for. But you lost what you had.
I have a similar problem. Luckily I do like cucumbers. They're more crisp than juicy I think I eat my hamburgers with only ketchup and onion rings
They will probably argue that everyone wants to live. This is obviously not true (suicide), but I'm fairly sure that works be a response you'd get.
Anyone who mentions this, I like to tell them that I wish my mother had aborted me, and am still suicidal. They can't really say "everyone" anymore after that.
Then they say "you're mentally ill so your experience doesn't count" and carry on arguing for forced birth on the basis that "normal people" want to live. When you define "everyone" to mean "everyone who agrees with me, because people who disagree are crazy," it's really easy to convince yourself you're right.
A newborn baby does not have the mental capacity to care about whether or not its right to life is infringed upon- it's not aware one way or the other either. Does that make him/her okay to kill? How is this relevant exactly? When you consider yourself went through a stage in your own life where you did not have this mental capacity to ponder your own existence, despite that, are you pleased today your own life was not deliberately ended in the womb, or as a newborn, or a toddler? I wonder how few pro-choicers ever thought about this fact.
Killing a newborn is morally nowhere near as bad as killing an adult for this reason. However, because the newborn isn't infringing on anyone's rights to the same extent, there is less reason to kill it. No. Having an abortion would have been much better for my mother. It's not like I would have minded.
It's the path that leads to the least suffering- the mother is not forced to give birth to a child who does not want it, and the child is not forced into a life where a mother does not want it- so it is probably thrown into the already-overcrowded adoption system, juggled between foster homes, and tossed into the world unprepared with little to no education. I'm happy today that I was not aborted, but if I had been, I wouldn't care. Because I wouldn't exist.
ahaha hey guess what I wish my mother had aborted me.
What about someone poisioning you as a newborn or a toddler?
That would be really horrible for my parents to have to experience. Just to clarify, when I say I wish my mom had aborted me, I say I wish she had wanted to abort me and did it. Not her having a miscarriage or having her pregnancy forcibly ended. I haven't killed myself because I love my mom too much to kill her only child. EDIT: oh and being poisoned would probably really suck
OP’s argument isn’t about whether it is OK to kill; it’s about having to choose between the lesser of two undesireable outcomes.
Maybe that is better phrasing.
“ok” is semantically equivalent to “permissible.”  You mischaracterize OP’s argument when you portray it as anything other than a choice to be made between two undesireable outcomes.
The heart of the pro-life argument concerns whether and the extent to which abortion is immoral.  The cucumber analogy doesn’t address this at all. Also, your argument fails as an analogy because you are bifurcating one right (a property right in a cucumber) into two (right to life and right to bodily autonomy).  In addition, your likening of property rights to fundamental rights is misplaced.  Property rights are at the lower end in the spectrum of rights while the right to life and right to bodily autonomy (which are fundamental rights) are among the most highly regarded of rights. Third, Dave is not analogous to the fetus.  The fetus lacks mental capacity.  Dave does not - he has the opportunity to care about cucumbers, but merely chooses not to. Fourth, we don’t like basing decisions on who lives, who dies, and whose fundamental rights are to be protected by analogizing to a bizarre unrealistic hypotheticals.  Why are you being forced to take someone’s cucumber?  Who is forcing you?  It sounds like the moral issue lies not with your choice, but with the parties responsible for coercing you into this position in the first place. Lastly, mental capacity should not be a principle for deciding whose rights are protected.  You’re going to find yourself in all sorts of eugenics and due process counterarguments with this one. Not a good argument.
Oh good, you already said all the things I was going to say, so I don't have to! Thanks!
I've said it before and I'll say it again- these metaphors just never work.  A fetus is not a cucumber and the desire for an abortion is not a cuke craving. I'm pro-choice, but to me, all analogies are gonna fall flat.  Abortion is a very unique scenario that really has no analog.


I'm baffled... if they're not coming from a religious perspective, what is their objection to abortion? Do they believe the "soul" is sacred; that every fetus from conception on has a "soul" and is fully human? How do they reconcile the demand (only affecting pregnant women) that one human be forced to donate their flesh, blood and body to the survival of another? No law in the US requires that of a male, only of females capable of reproduction. What is SecularProLife's point? What is their reason for existing?
Well, if they're secular, they're not believing in a soul . . . my understanding is that they believe the unique DNA present in an embryo, is, I guess, enough to warrant forced continued incubation. How do they reconcile the gender disparity?  Simple- you had sex, you knew what could happen, how dare you try to opt out given how we feel about fetuses.  Same as the religious anti-abortion folks in that matter.
They (incorrectly) believe that people are identical to organisms, so every human organism is a person, so abortion is wrong on those grounds.
If you take this question to /r/abortiondebate, you will find one or two secular pro-lifers very ready to explain their views.
I have debated with them numerous times. As evidence from my recent discussion here. Their main viewpoint is that a zygote is a "human organism" and their definition of the term comes from personalized interpretations of outdated and vague quotes from textbooks. They don't present any actual peer-reviewed research for their position.
In fairness, I'm not going to present any peer-reviewed research for my position either.  The stuff that you link in that discussion is also not research, precisely... we have decided on different qualities to qualify for personhood.
I don't see how my citations aren't peer-reviewed research? Many of them are published in scientific journals and discuss things from a scientific perspective.
Sure. I was using “research” imprecisely. How about... studies? Nobody’s ever going to create an experiment that answers the question, is what I’m saying.
Here is their basic website: https://www.secularprolife.org/stances Here is a good refutation: http://www.patheos.com/blogs/friendlyatheist/2018/03/28/this-atheists-arguments-for-being-pro-life-make-no-sense-at-all-2/ I have engaged in plenty of debates with a few of their members, including the mod of r/prolife here.
Thanks! I'll check them both out.
Why would it need a religious justification? Pro-lifers object because they think abortion is murder, and being against murder isn't specifically a Christian thing. There isn't even much (if anything) about abortion specifically in the Bible; there's plenty in Catholic Church doctrine, but there's a lot of pro-life Protestants.
The only form of human life that requires another human life provide its own flesh and blood to keep it alive is a fetus. No other human is permitted to make that demand, and the fetus requires it ONLY of a female human, never a male. I fail to see how the female refusing to permit her body to be used to keep another human alive is "murder" -- although I understand fanatics believe it is.
I don't think it's murder either. But whether or not you think it is has nothing to do with religion.
Interesting you bring this up because Protestants used to be pro-choice. In 1968, Christianity Today and the Christian Medical Society hosted a gathering of evangelical leaders from across the country for a symposium on birth control. The purpose was to set forth “the conservative or evangelical position within Protestantism” from scholars who “shared a common acceptance of the Bible as the final authority on moral issues.” The joint statement resulting from the conference, titled “A Protestant Affirmation on the Control of Human Reproduction,” included the consensus of attendees on abortion. “Whether the performance of an induced abortion is sinful we are not agreed,” it declared, “but about the necessity of it and permissibility for it under certain circumstances we are in accord.” Circumstances justifying abortion included “family welfare, and social responsibility.” “When principles conflict,” they affirmed, “the preservation of fetal life ... may have to be abandoned to maintain full and secure family life.” In 1971, the Southern Baptist Convention agreed, in a joint resolution: “We call upon Southern Baptists to work for legislation that will allow the possibility of abortion under such conditions as rape, incest, clear evidence of severe fetal deformity, and carefully ascertained evidence of the likelihood of damage to the emotional, mental, and physical health of the mother.” Dallas Theological Seminary professors also supported the cause. Bruce Wakte, writing in Christianity Today, drew on Exodus 21:22-24 to argue that “God does not regard the fetus as a soul, no matter how far gestation has progressed.” His colleague Norman Geisler concurred: “The embryo is not fully human — it is an undeveloped person.” And Robert P. Meye, currently a professor emeritus at Fuller Theological Seminary, insisted in Christianity Today that evangelicals “must reckon with the fact that there are those within the Christian community who can see no final offense in abortion when entered into responsibly by a woman in consultation with a physician.” https://www.huffingtonpost.com/jonathan-dudley/how-evangelicals-decided-that-life-begins-at-conception_b_2072716.html
Yeah, the Samantha Bee segment on this was really interesting.
Good article, good share.


If you want to read more about which sources in the US provide what they advertise, https://plancpills.org/ has more information on that.




You can't reconcile being pro-life on abortion and pro-death on the death penalty.-N. T. WrightColumn: I don't think abortion is murder, and neither do youIf abortion is morally indistinguishable from killing a newborn, though, why shouldn’t those who procure abortions be severely punished? It’s the clear logical implication of the pro-life argument.Apparently pro-choice people can't agree what pro-life means
Pro-choicers are not a conjoined hivemind with a single cohesive, unified, complete, hardened idea about what pro-life means.  They're individuals with individual opinions, which may or may not vary.  Just like pro-lifers are. "Ask ten people, get fourteen different opinions."
Uhhh who says abortion is the same as killing a newborn? It isn’t even close. A fetus can’t survive on its own. A newborn can be passed off to different caregivers.
While this is true, it fails to provide a solid argument for abortion as many who are pro-choice would not accept the reverse. A common reason, although probably not the most prominent, for a C-section is that the life of the mother is threatened by the birth of the baby in a certain manner. Doctors will delay the birth of the baby (stopping it from being born) for a short while until it is safe for the mother. In this case, the mother cannot survive without the child, but it is acceptable for doctors to prevent the child from being born. Should they not do this, because it is a violation of the child's bodily autonomy?
The viewpoint is that it is immoral to force a women to continue a pregnancy. Uh, what are you talking about with the c-section? Doctors are individuals but they aren’t going to delay a c-section until the outcomr is optimal. Can you give specific examples besides some vague anawer?
Can you survive on your own yourself? Anywhere? Anytime? I will arrange a helicopter, which will drop you off in the middle of taiga, naked. When you survive, say a year, only then I will accept you can survive on your own.
Sigh. You know what I leant or you’re just nitpicking. I clearly said a newborn could be handed off. I am not tethered to another person dependent on their body to provide me nutrients and filtering my blood. If I needed another person to provide care for me, that person wouldn’t be attached to me and could quit or be relieved by another person at any time. Being dropped off naked is clearly not what I meant. You’re being an idiot or not bothering to read what I wrote fully. Being purposefully stupid and thinking “ha! Loophole!” Is what prolife supporters do best when it comes to debates. They read what they want to and ignore the rest like a “newborn can be passed off to different caregivers” which clearly inplies that the newborn is its own physical entity whereas a fetus is not because you can’t hand it off to someone else to have it steal nutrients and pass waste off to. A better argument is to ask whether it is moral to force someone to donate blood to another person. The risks of complication to the donor is far lower than pregnancy and after birth.  Maybe some cellulitis, pain at the insertion site, some fatigue. Could save the donors life.
Why it is that relevant if the baby/fetus depends on person A, person B or machine C? If you stop feeding it, it dies, tethered to someone else's body or not.
Because those people can consent to taking care of the child or the machine doesn’t have an opinion. In case you need an anatomy lesson, a fetus is attached to the mother through a placenta. This placenta grows into the uterine wall and drains nutrients while passing waste back to the host. It is literally parasitic in nature and being pregnant can negatively impact the woman’s health. I mean, I really don’t get how you can’t see the difference unless you’re really dense and have no clue about anatomy.
I see the biological difference but I don't see why it is important. You have to feed the newborn, then it learns how to use the spoon and can eat without your help, but you still have to provide and prepare the food.  Sure thosa are important moments but from the moral point of view, it doesn't change anything: it's not like the fetus decided to invade and ruin your life, you are the one who is responsible for that it's attached to someone else's or your own body. If you know it will negatively impact your life, do the morally right decision and don't have a baby so you don't have to come up with flawed thought experiments and analogies to justify your decision to end it's life. I'm very much against forcing anyone to have a baby if they don't want it and the good news is you don't have to have a baby if you don't want one.
You choose to ignore why it is important. For example, a newborn can be handed off two homosexual males who can raise it. They can feed it, nurture it, etc. They didn’t carry it to term. Try doing that with a fetus. You can’t surgically implant it in another person for several hours. Also, morales are really culturally based. Basically, you are imposing your own opinion on someone. You and I can agree that the right thing is not to have a baby but prolife and prochoice what that exactly means such as abortion should be allowed if the mother chooses vs prolife’s view that means don’t have sex.
I know what it implies but why should life depend on a hypothetical possibility of transfer of care? Why does your life have value? Because you can take care of yourself or transfer this duty to someone else? Having an opinion does not automatically mean you impose it on someone. Moralles may be culturally based but most people believe that taking someone's life for no reason or steal is morally wrong. Even if you have different morales, you will most likely end up in jail if you steal a car - society already imposes it's own moral rules on you, whether you like it or not. Is it inherently bad thing? I don't think so. If even a little chance to conceive is unacceptable, you can undergo sterilisation/vasectomy and enjoy sex as mach as you want - if that's what you want.
I get you don’t want to critically think about this. The fetus is a literal parasite. It takes nutrients and passes on waste to the host. There is no benefit unless the mother assigns benefit to it, aka wants a baby. A newborn at that point is an individual with organ systems. You can pass an infant off to someone else to care for. For example, two males who can’t carry a fetus to term. If you are pro-life, you are taking away choices. People can be prochoice and be against abortion but recognize the need for people to make their own decisions. Once again, you are deciding that the fetus is a person. To me, it isn’t. Not to mention we kill people in the US since we still have the death penalty. We say that people can kill in self-defense. Clearly morales are subjective. Actually, most providers limit women’s choices to have sterilization. It also is an invasive procedure for women. In case you didn’t know or going to pretend not to know, women’s ovaries and fallopian tubes are on the inside. It requires surgery. It is also foolish to pretend people won’t have sex. Clearly history has shown otherwise. It would be like pretending prohibition in the US was a raging success.
I get you don’t want to critically think about this. This parasite develops in uterus, an organ which purpose is to provide safe environment where given parasite can fully develop. There really is much more to it than taking nutrients and passing on waste. The point is there is no "point", embryo and it's organs develop gradually. Again, is taking choices away always wrong? If I believe dumping garbage in a river is morally wrong, should I let other people do it? I don't really care if it's a person or not as we still don't know when personhood "begins". Potential to become a unique person is for me enough to grant it intrinsic value. That's way I said for no reason That's ok, I didn't say it's a solution for everyone, vasectomy is, on the other hand, simple procedure. Not sure what the last paragraph was referring to...

Prolife just means that you are against legal abortion (with some exceptions possible here or there. Ex: life of the mother, rape). Just like prochoice means that you are for legal abortions (with some exceptions possible here or there. Ex: very late term with no health reason). Most prolifers agree that the abortion doctor ought to be severely punished but are divided about the legal consequences for the mother.
I agree with you, I'm pro-life and I think abortions should only be performed when the mother's life is in danger (which is a very very small percentage of all pregnancies). I don't think doctors should necessarily be punished for it, if it's legal in the area they're performing them in, but I do think they shouldn't be doing it. I believe in karma. As for the legal consequences for the mother, I don't think she should be punished either, if she did it legally. I mean I completely understand it's a very hard choice to make, whether to kill your baby or not, and she may have been through some abuse which caused her to become pregnant. Or, she may be very young. However, again, these are a very small minority of abortions. Most of the time the mother simply feels she is not ready to have a baby, which I personally don't see as a good enough reason to kill it (I don't see any good reason to kill the baby, unless the mother's life is in danger). Though I don't think these women should be punished (for example, serving jail time), I think it is a morally reprehensible act and again, they will face karma for what they've done.
What about cases where the person carrying the fetus will self-harm, possibly even commit suicide if they aren't allowed access to an abortion? Would you consider this a valid reason for an abortion, since there's a danger to the mother's life?
I don't think I've ever seen a prolifer answer this. They usually just offer prayers and quickly move on.
I definitely don’t think that’s a valid reason for abortion. I myself suffered from depression and was suicidal a few years ago, so I know how to put myself in this person’s shoes - for me, talking to someone - a counsellor - really helped me manage my depression. I don’t think ‘terminating’ the baby is a justified response to this. I think the woman should instead get some sort of counselling or therapy, and if it’s severe enough (and safe for the baby), she could use medication too if a doctor approves. But killing the baby? Definitely not.
Maybe that would work for some people, but as a trans man, you literally could not inflict a worse form of torture on me than forced pregnancy. No amount of therapy would prevent the inevitable PTSD that I would develop on top of already dealing with chronic depression, anxiety, and gender dysphoria. I'd have to put school, my treatment, and work on hold for a fetus I didn't even want. Even if I was forced against my will to not harm myself to protect the fetus, chances are I would just kill myself after, because not only would my body be permanently altered by the experience, I'd have to live knowing that somewhere in the world there was a kid who I was considered the 'biological mother' of. If I was ever to get pregnant (though I absolutely 100% never intend to, the only way I could is through sexual assault), I would make it very clear from the get go that forcing me into a pregnancy is pretty much trading my life for whatever comes out of my body. Essentially, pregnancy would ruin my life. I'm sure there are women that feel the same, honestly.
Then you should look into tubal ligation.
The only reason I can think of is that punishing women for abortion is a proposition so unpalatable, that the resulting alienation of women would eradicate a unsustainably large chunk of support from the pro-life movement.
The fetus does not have moral valuea) Moral value is defined by sentienceCounterexample: People in deep comas have moral valueb) Moral value is defined by past sentienceCounterexample: Dead people do not have moral value2) Women can do whatever they want with their bodyThis commonly uses the violinist argument but it ignores the fact that the kidney ailment is the violinist's problem while rape is the same problem shared by both the mother and the child. If the Society of Music Lovers put the violinist in the coma, it would be immoral to unplug yourself.Counterexample: If separation surgery is not possible and two conjoined twins are completely healthy, one cannot blow them both up just for the fun of it, even though they both depend on the survival of the other to survive.3) OtherI don't know what this would be
I disagree. The right to self-defense does not disappear just because the thing you're defending yourself against doesn't deliberately intend to hurt you.
I would disagree, since I think it's like if the Joker kidnaps you both and says "You have been selected to take part in a social experiment. I have punctured the violinist's kidney and plugged you into him. You can either unplug yourself or not." This would make it immoral and possibly illegal. Even more so if you were the violinist's body guard. Even though it's not your fault you got kidnapped, you were responsible for protecting the violinist. (To put it in simpler terms, it's the violinist's problem they got into a coma, but it's the woman's problem she got raped.) I know that sounds pretty misogynist by today's standards and I don't mean either of them caused their situation, but that since the situation was due to their bad luck, they can't pull out of it at the harm of someone else. A better analogy might be conjoined twins. Is it okay to kill your conjoined twin for no good reason? (You die too.) And finally, I find it a bit ironic that pro-choicers will compare abortion to refusing to donate a kidney, when fetuses don't have that choice.
And it's the fetus's/violinists problem that they can't survive on their own. Tough shit. I wouldn't blame anyone for unplugging themselves. Aborted fetuses are already dead. Why should a corpse have a choice?
Same with conjoined twins. Can one throw them both off a cliff? Well we don't force dead people to donate kidneys
What? That has nothing to do with their condition. It would be perfectly reasonable for parents and doctors to choose to separate them, killing one twin so the other can have a normal life. Indeed, that is the usual course of action. And yet you want to force living women to donate their entire bodies.
Can they or can't they? Just the womb
You know nothing about pregnancy if you think only the uterus is involved. I would be perfectly happy to have my uterus removed along with the fetus, so that the fetus could have full use of it for as long as it wanted. Of course, that wouldn't aid its survival at all.
Their ear is not involved. Disproved your argument. Anyway, I noticed you didn't respond to my other point, probably because you can't.
Ear congestion and tinnitus are common side effects of pregnancy.
Fine but it's irrelavent and they aren't always involved.

Considering abortion pills are so easy to get and use, perhaps giving a lifesaving blood transfusion is the better comparison for abortion.
You should take this to r/abortiondebate
That sub is dead though.
The blatantly pro-life mod killed it for me.
All subreddits are webpages and all webpages have a right to life.
I'll try on category 3, "other." Argument: There are no such things as morality, good actions, or evil actions as objective truths in the philosophical sense. Morality is an invention of humans applying their intelligence, advanced beyond that of other animals, to construct culture and civilization. Outside of this civilization, humans, as biological mechanisms operating within the physical laws of the universe, have no inherent moral, spiritual, or religious significance beyond that of any other animate or inanimate matter. Those concepts of significance exist only internally within human civilization, not as a part of the universe at large, or decreed by a god. When a human society collectively decides upon ethical standards, it may choose to classify specific actions as "good" or "evil." The classification may be influenced by multiple factors, such as the geography or climate in which the society is located, the human-made religions that have evolved within the society, and so on. Societies choose their ethical standards as they will. The standards are neither "right" nor "wrong." Our society has decided that terminating a pregnancy is no longer an "evil" act. The reasons for previously considering it to be evil (religion, psychological abhorrence to the concept, philosophical valuations of human life, traditional family values, etc) are no longer as prevalent today as they were in history.
So you support the use of human sacrifices by the Olmec because their society decided it was okay?
I didn't say what I support, but assuming that I do support the position described by my opening argument, your statement would not follow for two reasons: I do not belong to the Olmec society. As a member of a society, I am not compelled to "support" its ethical standards, only abide by them. (Unless, of course, such support was itself authoritatively mandated within the standards.)
So why do you "support" abortion?
I didn't say that I do.
Then we agree abortion is bad? I'm not sure why we're debating then.
I'm not going to say that either. I don't want to talk about myself. I presented an argument in the interest of debating you -- that's what you originally asked for.
What if at some point in the future, society devolves into thinking that women are utter property. They are to be raped and used however men see fit. It’s not totally inconceivable. It’s been basically that way in the past. Or imagine a lost civilization deep in the Amazon is rediscovered. A culture that has lived in isolation for 10,000 years. Their culture believes that child rape and sacrifice to the gods is a good and necessary thing. Would these societies be wrong? Not according to your moral relativism. We would have no right to condemn either society. If you don’t see child rape as something that is always and everywhere and for every culture an insane evil, you should do some rethinking of your life.
I don't think that follows. In the argument I presented, there's no "oughts" or "rights" outside of those which a society invents, so considering whether a society has the "right to condemn" another society wouldn't have meaning. I'll try to interpret this remark as a response in a debate. Perhaps you would agree that women could marry at very young ages (perhaps as young as 13 or 14 years old) in Biblical times, and it was not considered evil then. In the society of many countries today, that would be child marriage and rape.
I'm not sure why your conclusions follow from your premises. Morality is created by and for humans and is not intrinsic to the universe---but so what? Why does that mean morality doesn't exist, just because it was arbitrarily created by us? And why does that mean abortion is justifiable?
Thanks for the criticism. My intended conclusion was not that morality does not exist at all, but that morality does not exist objectively or intrinsically to the universe. Briefly, morality still "exists" insofar as a society chooses to define it. Given that line of reasoning, abortion would be "justifiable" simply because a society decided it was. Here's the argument in a more proper form: P1. Within a society, morality is determined collectively.P2. Our society has collectively determined that abortion is moral.C. Within our society, abortion is moral. The natural point of attack is probably the first premise.
I don't see how anyone can actually believe this. If North Korea suddenly decided to kill all people with red hair, simply because they have red hair, do we have a right or duty to oppose them? They may have collectively decided that people with red hair are the thing bringing their society down, and elected leaders who promised to eliminate those with red hair. Given that, would we as Americans/Europeans have a right or duty to intervene? I mean, they did choose the ethical standard that said it was ok, and even preferable, to kill red-heads.
I could imagine society A collectively deciding to crusade against society B that didn't follow society A's ethical standards, because witnessing such "injustice" (in the eyes of society A) caused its citizens enough distress that they would decide to act.
What do you think of: 1c) Moral value is defined by both having past or present sentience, and the potential for future sentience. That way, a dead person would not have moral value---unless there exist medical technologies to bring them back. So if someone's heart stops, then nowdays they still have moral weight because we can administer CPR. Same with the coma example, but in the other direction---in general they have moral standing, but there is medical reason to believe that their brain is too far gone for them to ever wake up again, then I would argue that it would be perfectly moral for the family to pull the plug (even if their heart is still beating). Counter-question: What do you think about really early abortions like Plan B and whatnot? It seems to me that that kind of thing, as well as birth control, are the best ways to limit unwanted pregnancies (and hence limit abortions).
Well yeah you can make something up but neither of these give moral value on their own so it's kind of random to throw them together. Still wrong I don't know, I'm still studying Catholicism. I don't think it should be illegal however.
Late to the party, but I would like to choose number 3: A zygote/fetus/embryo is not a human being. Let's see what you come up with.
Well how do you define human?
Not human, But human being. Basically, that a human being is not formed till higher brain activity. As quoted by the JM Goldenring the original author of this idea: "The brain enables our body, our mind, our personality. The brain is the only unique and irreplaceable organ in the human body, as the orchestrator of all organ systems and the seat of personality. Thus, the presence or absence of brain life truly defines the presence or absence of human life in the medical sense. When viewed in this way, human life may be seen as a continuous spectrum between the onset of brain life in utero until the occurrence of brain death. “At any point, human tissue or organ systems may be present, but without the presence of a functional human brain, these do not constitute a 'human being', at least in a medical sense.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/4078859
Which aspect of the brain?
Any of it - As soon as electrical signals can be detected by EEG (which is around 8 weeks). The author makes this distinction because this is something that cannot be replaced under current technology, either mechanically or by transplant. Without this, we are not alive and certainly not human (Not in the "vegetable" sense, as they still have a functioning brain stem - but without ANY brain activity).
So it's murder to unplug people who are vegetables?
I think that's a separate, and valid discussion - but not really relevant here. Regardless of your opinion on that issue, if we're using ANY brain activity as a surrogate for "humanity", then 7 w/o fetuses are not yet "human"
Only if you're saying being a human is the determiner of moral value, which you are not, as it is okay to unplug vegetables.
This is actually a pretty complicated question so let me map out area of brain function explain how it works to provide evidence for my response. Let me map out this issue for you. If you solely consider fetal development, here are the facts. The first signs of the brain begin to form around week four when part of the embryo called the neural tube starts to develop three bulges that will eventually become the forebrain, midbrain, and hindbrain. While the first sign of electrical brain activity occurs at the end of the week and five and beginning of week six. This is far from the beginning of conscious brain activity; it is primitive neural activity. (It is also worth noting that there is neural activity in brain-dead patients as well. And yet throughout the world and across cultures, there is no problem declaring such brain states no longer human.) It isn’t until weeks 8-10 that the cerebrum truly begins to develop with neuron proliferation, anterior commissure development, and a small first interhemispheric connection. Development continues: weeks 12-16 bring the frontal and temporal poles begin to grow; week 16 the corpus callosum begins to develop, which is responsible for communication between the two hemispheres. Synapses start forming during the 17th week and multiply rapidly around week 28 (where organized brain activity is reached) —continuing at a rapid pace up until the 3rd and 4th months after birth.” The EEG perspective begins what the medical community terms "brain birth." Normal postnatal brain function is characterized by continuous electrical activity. An activity pattern of this sort is not present from the time the first neocortical cells begin making synaptic contact; rather, the change in EEG pattern to one of continuous electrical activity occurs at about 30 weeks of gestation-the period designated here as Transition 3. Furthermore, this latter EEG pattern marks the distinction between fetal wakefulness and sleep. “It is maybe significant that this latter activity transition occurs as the number and type of neocortical synapses changes between 28 and 32 weeks of development, perhaps representing the functional outcome of the suggested asynchronous shift in pattern of neuronal connectivity noted earlier. This period of transition is highlighted by other observations as well. Premature fetal-infants of 28-32 weeks gestation have been characterized as "loosely articulated and flaccid iris annikins"; they are limp and torporous if stimulated. Only several weeks later does this torpor give way to a genuine wakefulness when the newborn is stirred to activity, just about the time (roughly 34-36 weeks of gestational age). EEG patterns change once again and there emerge so-called "behavioral states"-stable, synchronously recurrent constellations of activities (motility, breathing and heart rate) that had previously changed independently of one another. It has been argued here however, that this integrative function is not one which would lead us to predicate a sort of fetal personhood barring abortion in the first trimester. The third transition is marked by the emergence of continuous EEG activity and wake/sleep cycles; it may also be characterized by a rather abruptly initiated period of dendritic spine formation, thereby providing the capacity for a type of synaptogenesis characteristic of more mature neocortical circuitry and (perhaps) establishing the first material possibility of neocortical functions comparable to those of normal, full-term infants-including, one might presume, the first manifestation of awareness. Thus, if we return to those neocortical capacities most likely to engage our moral attention as we prepare to ascribe a protected status of fetal personhood and being (i.e. possible awareness and/or a discrete and sustainable bodily existence regularly achieved through birth), we might be led to conclude that it is probably not until after 7 to 9 months of gestation that the fetal human attains a level of neocortex-mediated complexity sufficient to enable Neuromaturation, Moral Status and the qualifications of being considered a human being or person. References: https://academic.oup.com/jmp/article-abstract/10/3/237/897368/Neuromaturation-of-the-Human-Fetus?redirectedFrom=PDF J.K Mai, K.W.S. Ashwell Fetal development of the central nervous system. In: The Human Nervous System. (G.Paxinos, J.K. eds.), pp. 49-94. Elsevier, Amsterdam, Holland. 2004. R.R. Clancy, A.G.C. Bergqvist, D.J.Dlugos. Neonatal encephalography. In: In Current Practice of Clinical Encephalography, 3ra ed. (J.S. Ebersole, T.A. Pedley, eds.), pp. 160-234. Lippincott. Philadelphia, USA, 2003
First, nice job copy and pasting from here: www.cogsci.ucsd.edu/~rik/courses/cogs200-w05/readings/GazzNeuroethicsJI-1.pdf and here: http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.505.288&rep=rep1&type=pdf. I highly doubt you understand your own argument, but nonetheless I will attempt to debate a pdf. I first highly doubt you ascribe moral value to the "brain" just because. If a transplant existed where parts of the brain were temporarily removed, someone would not stop being a person. However, the pdf you copied from nicely sums up that the real cause of moral value is the "first manifestation of awareness" or "possible awareness and/or a discrete and sustainable bodily existence regularly achieved through birth". So basically awareness/consciousness. And... what about people in a deep coma? Can you kill them?

Personally I'd probably just go further out of my way to help my patients get them if they're needed.
So would I! Problem is, in some countries we'd be charged with murder.
Thank you both. It says a lot about you that you’d go to those lengths to help others at your own expense possibly.
I was thinking of using a secret identity. Wear some platform shoes, robes, and a plague doctor mask. Abortion-Man.
Out of curiosity, what is your capacity in having patients?  Feel free to PM me.
Out of curiosity, what is your capacity in having patients?  Feel free to PM me.
The number of abortions stays the same, but more of them are expensive, unsafe, dangerous, and/or done wrong.
This. Abortion has and will always exist. Not providing a safe, legal option will result in a bunch of dead women. Smh.
There are a good deal of pro lifers who are fine with that unfortunately.
That proves they're not out to end abortion, but to control women.
I think they want to control everyone. Not just women.


Pro-lifer here who just did some snooping. This article wasn’t what I was expecting it to be, and I loved it. By the end, I was angry not for the reasons I first thought I would be. I take my position as pro-life very seriously. For me, it doesn’t mean that I only oppose abortion. It means I value all life and must work to improve the lives of those in need. People with disabilities, the elderly, the sick and homeless, no matter who they are I believe that I have a moral obligation to help them have a better life. So seeing how people are more concerned with money than actually helping others infuriates me to no end, especially the Republicans in Ohio who are a bunch of greedy hypocrites who only oppose abortion for purely aesthetic reasons. I don’t believe in making abortion illegal so much as I do making it unnecessary for a woman who finds herself in such a situation where she has to seriously consider it, to the extent I am willing to let them live in my own home, buying them food and clothes, anything I can do to help them support raising a child or, if they can’t, help look for a couple willing to adopt them. If I can’t, I would take care of the kid myself as if they were my own child. That’s what I believe being pro-life means. Helping others in need.
It sounds like you might be pro-choice. In the national debate we have in the US between one side wanting to restrict abortion rights and access, and the other side wanting to maintain and support access for pregnant people to be able to choose to have an abortion... you feel that abortion should be accessible to people who choose it. You also feel people shouldn't choose it, but you do not feel the law should force or coerce them into not choosing it. The word for that is pro-choice. Being pro-choice does not mean that you like abortion.  Part of living in a pluralistic society is accepting your neighbors making decisions you dislike.
That isn't strictly true. I'm more in favor of doing everything I can to help others no matter the cost to myself.
Which line do you see that in contrast with?
I am not sure I understand your meaning.
I didn't understand yours.
Well, I believe in helping others however I can.
Me too -- what does that have to do with pro-choice vs not?
respect! 👍

prolifers are quaking in their boots
The same reason we don’t have funerals for  first trimester miscarriages. Deep down, we all know it isn’t a human life yet.
Shit, I don’t think people even have funerals for third trimester miscarriages do they? If so that’s fucking weird
I think some weirdos do. Edit: Sorry for being insensitive. We all grieve in our own way and I can’t imagine a miscarriage that far along in a pregnancy. If a funeral for an unborn child is what you want/need, that’s great.
As someone who has had a third trimester miscarriage, I don't think it is weird. I mean I didn't go to a funeral home,or anything. But it gives closure to do something.,
Yeah those weirdos mourning the death of their child.
Not at all. A funeral implies the public (I know this isn’t always the case, which is why I apologized). It is strange to hold a public funeral for an unborn fetus. If that is what the parents/family want and need, to each their own, but it is weird and not customary in the US.
Yeah, my older brother died before he was born. It's not like he was real or anything. It's not like we cared about him or anything. Right? He was just a mass of cells. That's all he was. Seriously? You can't just apologise for saying something like that. I miss him every day of my life. There's nothing I wouldn't give for him to be here with me, there's nothing I want more than to see him at least just once. To say we're 'weirdos' to want to have a funeral for him or to honour him or remember him is not just insensitive; it's absolutely ignorant of what I've had to go through, and what others in similar situations have had to go through.
What do you miss most about your older brother? What are your fondest memories of him?
I know some hardcore prolifers who do have exactly such funerals. They even posted about it to Facebook.
My favorite is that all fetuses would be "undocumented immigrants." Can we call ICE?
Some societies don't, they count newborns as being "one" year old.  Some societies don't even name children, don't see them as full,real humans, until those children see 365 days on earth. It depends on the society.
I know this isn't a serious argument, but I dislike these kinds of arguments from convention.  Some jurisdictions count murdering a pregnant person as double homicide, for example... that doesn't have any bearing on the underlying truth of the matter, either.
I know prolifers who do say their age and then say, well technically  that age plus 9 months. I have met some who do include it. One of my uncles insists they come from a family of 8 kids because he counts one of the miscarriages.
You should tell him his family is probably larger than that.  About 30% to 40% of all fertilized eggs miscarry, often before the pregnancy is known.  Statistically, he could actually come from a family of 12.
Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miscarriage HelperBot v1.1 /r/HelperBot_ I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 191145
Some countries start counting age once a child is conceived. Take Japan, for example. https://japanqna.wordpress.com/2007/11/17/japanese-birthdays/ Also, it's inconvenient to say your baby is nine months old when they're born because there is a thing called 'premature babies'. Some babies may be nine months and one day old when they're born, others may be eight months and seventeen days, who knows. And not everyone can tell the exact date that their child was conceived. It would be so difficult to track the conception date of every single baby if we had to measure their age from conception. But yes, a baby does exist from the moment of conception, and when it is nine months old (approximately) it is born and has been alive within the mother's womb for approximately nine months.
Because they're called "birth" days.
It’s a tradition, due in no small part to the fact that birth dates can easily be determined, while conception dates, at least historically, cannot.


I posted this over on instagram, and thought I'd give it a shot over here.  I'm new to reddit so if this is inappropriate, let me know. The post with all the instructions is:https://www.instagram.com/p/BjdcTi6ApnD/?taken-by=m2bartmetalsTo just donate directly:https://www.arabortionsupport.org/donate/   Thanks for looking.


It’s not an infant she killed, it’s a fetus she aborted. They aren’t the same.
You can acknowledge the fact it's all one human life, living and growing in a continuum.

The inability to retreat is the difference here. If it was a born child, would you also be shaming her for writing about giving a child up for adoption?

I highly doubt you would be nice to this woman if she wrote an article about how proud she was to give up her child for adoption. I imagine you would say something like "giving up the child isn't something to be proud of!" That is an understatement. What about half a quart to a full quart of blood loss would make you say that a person who wants an abortion is selfish?
I imagine you would say something like "giving up the child isn't something to be  proud of!" Yeah.. I definitely would not. No need to make such assumptions. I am a woman and I know enough women in my life to know that pregnancy is most definitely not easy, and I did not downplay that at all. But when the alternative is the death of our own offspring, it is the least we could do out of love. Some parents would sacrifice their life for their child, others would sacrifice their child for their own life. It's pretty sad really.
It's not your offspring until it's born and you accept it as yours. What an insulting presumption. Plenty of people do not consider their pregnancies "theirs" and give up the child to someone else not wanting any connection at all. Similarly, it's insulting to people who adopt. They didn't carry them, is it wrong for them to consider it their offspring? It's not their child if they don't want it to be, that's the point of being pro-choice.  Also it seems like you see it only as a black/white situation. I challenge you to stop framing it this way. What an insulting way to frame the real threat and harm that pregnancies can be for others and the way people who are already mothers might choose abortion so they can remain good parents to their already born children.
Goodness me. An embryo/fetus is literally your offspring developing in your womb. The fact that you might not accept it or want to care for it doesn't change the physical reality. He or she is not their biological offspring. Thought that was obvious. Must be the dumbest thing I've read all day. The child in your womb that you created is yours and you not wanting it doesn't change the biological reality. You are already a mother when you are pregnant. Your child is growing yes, but he or she has come into existence and is in need of your parental care and protection. Having an abortion won't stop you from becoming a mother, it will just make you the mother of a dead baby. Every child has a right to parental care. A man who may not want the responsibility of being a father; he may not be ready; but he needs to be offer support for his child. Because his child has a right to that, and he has an obligation to care for his offspring. A child in the womb, also has the same right to parental care and protection, the mother has an obligation to care for her offspring. Of course, pregnancy is much more difficult on our part, and it would be awesome if there was some technology in the future where the father can share in the burden lol, but it is what it is, life is not perfect. Women are strong enough to endure pregnancies, generally speaking. Although difficult, it is one of the biological functions to which our bodies prepare for, and we are capable of enduring it. Adoption is an option, but if adoption can't be an immediate option, the biological parents still have a duty to feed and care for their newborn and keep him/her alive until someone else can take care of him/her, at least. That is all.
We're not talking about biological facts, we're talking about the subjective moral equivalence you are putting on women, to consider anything that is of their own genetic data, to be something they should be willing to give their lives to. That's bullshit. So... Do you not see how insulting this is to parents who adopt their children? So they should consider their adopted children less valuable than their biological children? Or should they feel obligated to produce biological children even though they prefer adoption? What are you even saying here? Says who? Let me guess, you didn't know until now that you can have your adopted parents on your birth certificate? Let me guess, you think that adoptive mothers have less right to claim their child as theirs than birth mothers. Really? Where's the birth certificate? Where's the guardianship? Can I claim an unborn child as my dependent? Can I have a tax break for being pregnant? That's your subjective belief. Plenty of people have born children that they are not mothers to, or are even unworthy of the title due to gross neglect and abuse. Secondly, there are plenty of adoptive mothers who cannot give birth, who have surrogacy contracts or adopt children, who are th truest mothers of their adopted children. This is a broken sentence. I'm not really sure what you are saying here anyway. No she doesn't! Where's the tax break for unborn children? Can I drive in the carpool lane if I'm pregnant as that counts as an extra person? Where's the right of adoptive parents to supplant those of the biological mother? What the fuck are you talking about? What obligation? So it could be a violation of rights for both sexes? K. Where's the just compensation? This is also insulting. A kind of "gilded cage" sort of condescension... we used the same logic for black slaves. Their bodies were strong enough to endure the heat, therefore they were meant to be slaves. Bullshit. Just because something is natural does not make it "good." Also, everything, literally everything is natural, including the brains we've evolved to create medical technology. Did you know this fallacy? https://www.logicallyfallacious.com/tools/lp/Bo/LogicalFallacies/36/Appeal-to-Nature That's because once a baby is outside the body is it posing no more immediate threat to health. Thus one would, like with any other dependent person(or even non-dependent), have an obligation to not neglect care. Did you not understand that until now? Lol whatever you say.

That would be murder so...



Haven’t read your article yet, but I know that one protest occurred in the middle of a Catholic Mass.  Very disrespectful.


Life is a tricky term. We do not treat all “life” equal otherwise we wouldn’t eat. That chicken? It is alive. That cat? It is alive. We as society define humanity as something different than just being alive otherwise we would never declare someone brain dead.
That’s why pro-lifers focus on personhood and not merely on life.
Except a fetus isn’t a person. It lacks the ability to be an independently functioning body. It lacks higher thought.
All I’m saying is that pro-lifers focus on personhood, not mere life. To suggest otherwise is to erroneously size up the pro-life movement. This is the crux of the pro-life argument.
Actually, most pro-lifers I have talked to on here focus on the life aspect. Sometimes they focus on the heartbeat but most focus on life as being why an abortion is wrong.
This is most likely just a simplification. When you read pro-life literature, the argument is always that a fetus is a person and hence deserves the rights of a person. Merely being alive doesn’t afford anything a right. Even bacteria have life. If you insist that pro-lifers are too dumb as to miss the obvious point that chickens also have life but somehow they are not equal to humans, then you’re not interested in the honest to good pro-life position. You’re interested in straw men that are easy to knock down.
I didn't know people had the right to use another person's body without consent.
Exactly.  Th personhood for fetus extremist fail to understand that giving such a status to a fetus deprives the Woman of her personhood rights.
There is no parallel to abortion, so it’s not as simple as flinging out a statement like that. There is no other situation where a person is created already dependent on another person for a temporary amount of time. That’s why pro-choicers come up with thought experiments like the Jarvis violinist. It’s an attempt to create something like a hypothetical parallel.
`. So is sex kidnapping of fetuses into existence? If you want to make it some kind of crime, then you can remove continuous consent and bodily autonomy. Not before. 2. Even if an ovum is fertilized, 70% of fertilized ovum's fail to implant and become a pregnancy. So the vast majority of the time, sex is NOT creation of a fetus. It's the minority risk. 3. Fertilized ovums burrow on their own into the lining of the uterus or else there is no pregnancy. They die. Where is the consent for this with this "person" when sex is clearly only consent with one, completely different person. Saying sex is consent to pregnancy is like saying sex with one person is consent to be touched by a completely different person. And the government can force you. 4. Universal rights are universal or they are not moral. If you make an "exception" to the rules because of fetuses and fetuses alone, you are in violation of the most basic human rights. Granting one class of people superior rights over another class is legalized bigotry....But, like I said, if you want to make sex a criminal act, then it would work. You can say the creation of fetuses is a crime against fetuses, and thus fetuses can "own" the woman's body as preventative defense against this crime, of "kidnap into existence(?)" until they are no longer dependent. Thus if the ovum implants in the uterus it has superior right to the woman. (In the same way a robber has no right to self defense while they are engaging in a robbery. The victim OWNS the body of the robber in a way, until they are no longer in threat.) My question then to you would be, if 70% of zygotes fail to implant, and then die, is sex criminal manslaughter? Reckless endangerment which causes death of fetuses, by creating them in the first place? Can a born child sue their parents for creating them in the first place?
I don’t understand what you mean here. To address your other points: And? I never said sex is consent to pregnancy, nor do I believe that. The only thing I’m saying is that no one has the right to deliberately kill an innocent person. I’m not making any exceptions here. Nor am I granting any group superior rights. I’m doing exactly the opposite. I’m saying no one has the right to take the life of an innocent person, without exception. I’m saying the fetus’ right to live is no less than an adult’s right to live. No, because this is simply how nature works. A parent’s obligation is simply to do what he or she is reasonably capable of doing to avoid death.

Personhood for a fetus is impossible without stealing personhood rights from the mother, Thus it will not work
All laws are essentially taking rights from some people for the sake of the rights of others. The fact that compromises have to be made when we balance human rights isn’t an argument against human rights. For example, laws against theft deny rights to take the property of others for the sake of affirming the right to not have property taken away.
The 14th amendment protects against special treatment of one class of persons over another. In this case you are granting fetuses a superior right to woman's bodies that no other person has. That is the definition of class based legislation (which is illegal.) All classes of people are subject to the same laws regarding theft however. In this case, you are making an exception to the laws which govern bodily rights , self defense and lethal force, for only one class of persons (Fetuses.) at the expense of women.
It’s not special treatment because it’s simply the application of a universal standard: don’t kill innocent people. I also support government provision of basic services for free, such as healthcare. For women, this must cover sanitary pads, tampons, pregnancy assistance, maternity assistance, etc. Is this special treatment or sexist against men, who don’t directly benefit? No! It’s simply the application of the universal duty to provide for basic needs of all. Incidentally, women require these things by nature.
Nope. Justified homicide is not based on innocence or guilt of the person who is causing you threat. Only that you were in using it as reasonable force to remove a non-retreatable threat to harm and well-being. No one has to prove the guilt of the person causing them harm before they have the right to self defense. That's insane. Then if the person putting me in danger was mentally unfit (innocent by lack of consciousness) then they would own my body. That's not how it works.
What you’re saying only applies to split moment decisions. There is no parallel to abortion in cases of self defense. There is no self defense case where the victim creates a situation where another person relies on their body for a temporary amount of time.
Nope. You are wrong again. Lethal force has to do with the ability to retreat. It doesn't matter if a person needs assistance to get an abortion (or needs assistance for any other form of self defense - see the definitions of justified homicide in US law - it includes the right of people to help others). It is literally the ONLY WAY to stop the ongoing threat of pregnancy, labor and birth. Absolutely there are. Legal acts lead to other people doing things all the time. Legally abiding people have the same legal rights to self defense, even if you could make a causal relationship. You have to be guilty of a CRIME for you to lose your bodily rights. So, is sex a crime? A zygote burrows on it's own into the lining of the uterus or else it's not a pregnancy. Are you saying sex is a criminal act creating the dependency for which a zygote can therefore own the woman's body?
So please give one anecdote of a self defense situation which parallels abortion. Also, where does the law on justified homicide require the ability to retreat? I searched and had trouble finding this. I even found that the ability to retreat doesn’t affect one’s right to use lethal force.

I am absolutely pro-choice, but this sort of bizarre fight for use of terms like "human life" is just a waste of time. It is pretty clear that a fertilized egg is the first stage of development for a discrete human organism. It is alive and it is human. This article did nothing to really make a clear statement about why that is not the correct perspective to take.
I prefer to use the term "person" rather than "human life" for this exact reasoning.
I guess I view a foetus as "human life" rather than "a human life". But I do think it's futile for pro-lifers to tell us we're murdering people, and equally for us to try and convince them they aren't people.
I do think it is productive to try and convince people that a fetus isnt a "person."  It seems ridicules to try and argue that it isn't a human though. One has moral significance, and one is a biological argument that we would be on the losing side of.
I have several issues with this article. The author uses the inflammatory term "anti-choice" instead of "pro-life." This is as uncharitable and counterproductive as pro-lifers who label the pro-choice position as "anti-life." That he chooses to deride the opposition in his opening statement makes it more difficult to respect the rest of his argument. A well-defended pro-choice platform appropriately distinguishes between the scientific qualifier "human" and the moral qualifier "person." The title of the article is scientifically questionable and could feed the idea that the pro-choice position is the less scientifically rigorous. So the true conclusion of the article is "the fertilized egg might not be a human life," not "the fertilized egg is not a human life." Asserting "life is a very fuzzy concept" without explaining how to apply that statement to the abortion debate is unhelpful. Consider how a pro-lifer would see that conclusion: if we don't know whether or not the embryo/fetus is a human life, don't we have a moral obligation to not take that risk? Wouldn't a hunter be morally obliged to not take a shot at a dark shape during twilight if he is unsure whether or not the shape is a person? Finally, the final quote by Wolpert is questionably applied: I'm not familiar with Wolpert, but as he precedes his statement with the suggestion that it concerns a religious sentiment, it sounds to me that he is colloquially using "human being" in the philosophical/moral sense, not the biological sense. Like most other biologists, he seems to have no issue talking about human life in its earliest developmental stages. One of his most famous sayings is: "It is not birth, marriage, or death, but gastrulation which is truly the most important time in your life."
Intellectually honest pro-choicers acknowledge the biological fact that a human life begins at fertilization. This blog post is laughable. "Well acktually life began 4 billion years ago" argument is completely irrelevant to when a human life begins. And it should be obvious that you and I are not celebrating our 4 billionth-year birthday. His argument boils down to "it doesn't look like a human being" therefore it isn't a human being. Even the single quote he provides in his defense isn't much of an actual argument rooted in biology. As for his false claim that "no competent biologist would take the position that these anti-choicers claim", here are several from college textbooks that PZ Meyers will have to answer to. [O'Rahilly, Ronan and Muller, Fabiola. Human Embryology & Teratology. 2nd edition. New York: Wiley-Liss, 1996, pp. 8, 29.] [Carlson, Bruce M. Patten's Foundations of Embryology. 6th edition. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1996, p. 3] [Sadler, T.W. Langman's Medical Embryology. 7th edition. Baltimore: Williams & Wilkins 1995, p. 3] [Moore, Keith L. and Persaud, T.V.N. Before We Are Born: Essentials of Embryology and Birth Defects. 4th edition. Philadelphia: W.B. Saunders Company, 1993, p. 1] [Cloning Human Beings. Report and Recommendations of the National Bioethics Advisory Commission. Rockville, MD: GPO, 1997, Appendix-2.] [Langman, Jan. Medical Embryology. 3rd edition. Baltimore: Williams and Wilkins, 1975, p. 3] [Jonathan Van Blerkom of University of Colorado, expert witness on human embryology before the NIH Human Embryo Research Panel -- Panel Transcript, February 2, 1994, p. 63] [Larsen, William J. Human Embryology. 2nd edition. New York: Churchill Livingstone, 1997, p. 17]
There is a difference between properties "human life" and "personhood". "Human life" is a biological property. It refers to a living body that is both a human species (has a human DNA) and is alive (metabolizes chemicals, maintain homeostasis, etc.). In other words, it refers to whether or not some particular arrangement of cells carries out some simple biological functions. "Personhood" is a computational property. It refers to whether or not some particular arrangement of matter does the right sort of computation - one that is self-aware, is psychologically similar to humans, can feel and reason. In almost all human organisms, there is such a computation, and that computation is the person. But they don't always go together. For example, you could have an intelligent AI - a person that is not inside a human body. Chimpanzees, dolphins, elephants and octopi are reasonably intelligent and might qualify as people too. On the other hand, you can have a human organism without a person inside. Such examples include embryos, zygotes, or brain-dead and anencephalic humans. (As a simple example that can help you see that people aren't identical to organisms, you can imagine conjoined twins with two heads and one body - a single organism, but containing two people.)
Computational theory of mind In philosophy, the computational theory of mind (CTM) refers to a family of views that hold that the human mind is an information processing system and that cognition and consciousness together are a form of computation. Warren McCulloch and Walter Pitts (1943) were the first to suggest that neural activity is computational. They argued that neural computations explain cognition. The theory was proposed in its modern form by Hilary Putnam in 1961, and developed by the MIT philosopher and cognitive scientist Jerry Fodor (who was Putnam's PhD student) in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. Anencephaly Anencephaly is the absence of a major portion of the brain, skull, and scalp that occurs during embryonic development. It is a cephalic disorder that results from a neural tube defect that occurs when the rostral (head) end of the neural tube fails to close, usually between the 23rd and 26th day following conception. Strictly speaking, the Greek term translates as "no in-head" (that is, totally lacking the inside part of the head, i.e. the brain), but it is accepted that children born with this disorder usually only lack a telencephalon, the largest part of the brain consisting mainly of the cerebral hemispheres, including the neocortex, which is responsible for cognition. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
I’d argue there are more than two categories (more than just human life and personhood). HELA calls are neither a human life nor a human person (which I guess, if you believed they were a human person would mean they are Henrietta Lacks, as they are most similar to her DNA), but they are living human cells If I take living HELA cells and inject them into an immune-systemless mouse and they gain a body to house them, they are neither living humans nor people. Heart cells can cycle rhythmically and beat for extended periods of time (year) (if provided food and removal of waste), and I would argue they are neither living humans nor alive (again, but they are living human cells). living human cells =/= living human =/= personhood If I put human heart tissue, brain tissue, kidney tissue, liver tissue, bone, muscle tissue, etc. together in a dish and culture it for days, and no parts work together to form a cohesive entity, this is not human life nor a person, but they are all individually living human tissues. Teratomas/dermoid cysts/fetuses in fetu (obviously this is a spectrum) contain human DNA (they may even have hair, teeth, or brain tissue), but certainly lack the necessary components to be considered either living humans or people. Wikipedia article (which states this clearly and I agree with): If I transplant an arm or a face onto a person from two other people, that individual isn’t suddenly three living humans or three living people after surgery. The patient is a living human and a person and the arm and face are a living human arm and a living human face. Components parts alive =/= entity alive as a whole =/= human life =/= personhood This is why biofilms sit on a weird fence between 1 organism and each cell is an organism. The bacteria in biofilms can work together, differentiate, and seemingly form an entity, but each bacterial cell can also survive indefinitely and reproduce unassisted. This is sort of related to the idea that a human can die without their skinsuit dying. If the higher brain (all but the brainstem) is dead, that person is dead and the human is dead but their body can continue to breathe (brainstem reflexes) for a time (like an elaborate machine). I also think it’d be strange to define “life at conception” (even if it was just human life, not personhood) because there’s no guarantee the fertilized embryo will 1) implant and 2) become a living human. For example, just because fertilized implanted (need to specify implanted because of the hight human miscarriage rate) embryos normally develop into living humans which may be given personhood, doesn’t mean it’s guaranteed. I’m not sure anyone would argue a hytidiform mole is a living human, and yet the individual cells are alive. If “life begins at conception,” and no function is lost (no degeneration, or regression) from progression of embryo to mole, is it now not a living human? Are their backsies (with exception to death) for human life?
You're right, not every arrangement of living human cells is a human organism. Living human cells don't have to conform to the definition of organism. I don't know. Maybe bacteria in biofilms would have to be more interlocked to be on the fence? Wikipedia is obviously right, but that doesn't imply fetuses aren't living humans, because every organism needs right conditions to develop. Why is the human dead, if the body continues to breathe? (Let me know if I absolutely need to read the linked article for that.) That doesn't actually follow - you can say that it dies if it fails to implant. It doesn't follow it wasn't a human organism. ("Hydatidiform mole", right?) Yes, but they don't conform to the definition of an organism, right? Can you have a normal embryo changed into a mole? Because I just skimmed the Wikipedia article, and it looks like such a fertilized egg is defective from the moment of conception. You could have cessation of existence - when a zygote splits in two twins, it ceases to exist without dying.
My point isn’t that fetuses are or are not living humans but that the definition has to be more developed than living human cells = living human. I prefer to think of the process of life as a spectrum with neonates definitely living humans and human cell lines definitely not. Biofilms are either considered not organisms or in an intermediate stage (a window for scientists into the process of achieving multicellularity. I agree with your assertion that Wikipedia provides no insight as to whether fetuses are living humans, but that wasn’t my point. For a new point, due to your comment, “because every organism needs right conditions to develop.” I’d also argue that The potential to develop human life =/= human life I think the definition of death using “brain death” criteria makes the most sense for defining death of the living human, because once the higher brain (everything above the brainstem) is dead, the human will 1) never regain consciousness; 2) has no brain activity for thoughts, conscious control of their skinsuit, or really anything really. I personally think the requirement of life for humans requires more than a constellation of reflexes, and the US medical system seems to agree to an extent (there are reflexes out of the brainstem) (whole brain death is the criteria for death), where the body can breathe and their heart beat on a respirator, but not without (since some of the individual cells of the heart beat in a dish, it’s not exactly that the human body without a brain is dependent on the respirator, but without it the body will stop breathing and will therefore die; there are also some organs which can function independently of the brain, but I don’t think liver or skin function should factor in for death). This (whole brain death; not mine of brainstem function) is the criteria used for organ donation; however, it’s not like I think this in a vacuum—there is a push to accept “higher brain death” as the definition of death. The brainstem contains: cranial nerve nuclei (nerves which innervate the head), vestibular nuclei for balance, reflexes (breathing, chewing, sucking, heart rate control), the “on” switch for transition from being limp (as in sleep) to using the body (conscious; again which requires the higher brain), and sensory nuclei for muscle placement, sensation, and pain (all of which require the higher brain to perceive). This is why I say it’s a constellation of reflexes. I could sever the brain from a cat and destroy it, leaving the majority of the brainstem (decerebrate), and the cat will still walk if supported on a treadmill (due to reflexes in the brainstem and spinal cord), but I would still argue the cat is dead. (This would seem a horrific experiment, but I reference a cat because a version of the experiment has been done.) The paper explains this more succinctly. Most hytidiform moles are abnormal, yes. My point was that an entity of human cells (and not just differentiated cells, like a heart) can be not human life. But you bring up an interesting point. Clearly, by your definition, there is a cutoff on the “chromosomally/genetically normal” spectrum which divides “not human life” from “not human life.” Where is the boundary and how would you define it? The majority of triploid (3N, most humans are 2N) embryos are unviable (spontaneous abortion). However, some survive to birth, only to require full cardiorespiratory support (respirator, etc.) to keep breathing. Similarly, Klinefelter’s, Down Syndrome, Edward’s Syndrome, Cri du Chat, etc. are also chromosomally/genetically abnormal, so clearly “not chromosomally/genetically normal” cannot define not human life on its own. The definition of an organism is not clear cut. Normally there is a higher criteria for so called “higher” forms of life (like humans). Similarly, normal fertilization’s in the wrong location (ectopic pregnancy; it turns out the uterus is inhospitable to life and thus works to ensure the implanted embryo does not grow uncontrolled and turn into cancer) will also develop abnormally into something not exactly human life. See, I’d argue the twin example you provide is exactly why this “life at conception” business makes absolutely no sense. Who’s life is it exactly that died when the embryo split? What about chimeras then? Are they two human lives? What about conjoined twins where one swallows  (not literally via the mouth) the other in utero and stalls it’s development? Is that two living humans? Nothing died, no life (even of cells at this point) was terminated. There was no stall or regression of development when the embryo split to produce twins. (And what if they split late in development, or unevenly, and the smaller half of cells all die? Is the living half of cells equivalent to the human life before the split?) According to you, if the cells divide and are viable then, they are identical twins and two human lives. What if later one swallows the other and stalls development as in above. Now there is one human life again as before the split? Although the below is irrelevant to my argument, I believe human life requires a functioning brain. Before then, there is a “potential for life” which does not equal “life.” This would mean that true anencephalic (sometimes the term is used for fetuses with some brain, which is incorrect) newborns are not alive, were never alive, although the life of their body may be extended via cardiorespiratory support. This is one way of justifying why they are used for organ donation to newborns in need with the consent of the parents. Alternatively, you could argue that the parents made the decision to withdrawal cardiorespiratory support because although it was life, much like a DNR, families can decide in certain instances when to end life (clearly I disagree, but it does also justify organ donation). Note that I require none of the above to justify abortion, as it is a body autonomy issue. (If my father or mother would require being hooked up to me to live (obviously they have both human life and personhood), do I have a right to decide what I do and do not do with my body (say yes or no)? I’d argue I have the ability to refuse.) Note that I only speak about my body and not a body which has been equally shared between two entities since the point of “life” as well as personhood, unlike the example of conjoined twins. (My body has always been mine and mine alone.) If the fetus dies (before viability), this is a consequence, and not the direct goal of me exercising my right to my body. After viability, the medical (or surgical) abortion procedure is now called “induced birth” and the remaining requirements (should I not want to care for the newborn, which now has legal personhood and human life) to an individual with legal personhood are called “adoption.”
You're right - I said it had to be able to perform certain functions and gave examples, but I didn't mean that to be a complete definition of organism - I just meant to point out the conceptual difference between functional hardware (the organism is alive) and software existing inside the brain (the person). I don't know. It can't be possible in all cases, because life evolved through abiogenesis, so there have to possibly exist all intermediate stages between "organism" and "not an organism". Is your point that abnormalities exist on a spectrum, so there is no conceptually possible cutoff point between a mole and a healthy embryo? If you're right, the concept of human organism could still exist as some sort of approximate clustering, with a not-too-abnormal zygote being a human organism, a mole not being a human organism, and a spectrum of possible intermediate entities with their "human organism" status being undefined. Such a clustering could maybe be independent on the degree of the development - so the fact that zygote is just one cell would have no relationship to it being or not being a human organism. (In any case, my point was that people aren't identical to organisms, and therefore abortion doesn't kill a person, not that there is a sharp dividing line between human organisms and not human organisms, so sorry if I derailed this.) That's only a matter of how we use language. I know these things are only given by human convention and by how we want to partition the universe (made only of subatomic particles) into higher-order entities. (It would be coherent to say, for example, that the embryo came out of existence, and in case of chimeras, two organisms came out of existence and created a single organism.) This is only a matter of how we use language - it's coherent to say that the whole ceased to exist even if no constituent part has. Oh, I see. I thought an intermediate would have to be more interdependent/interconnected than that. That's the price I pay for being a physics student, not a biology student. :) My original idea was that - even in many university textbooks - it's usually written that after fertilization, a new organism starts its existence as a zygote. It might be faster to correct pro-lifers' misunderstanding of personal identity (the incorrect assumption that people are identical to organisms) than trying to teach them advanced biology to try to convince them that embryos aren't organisms/alive/humans - because in the second case, they will still be completely wrong in their original belief. Or maybe it is faster. I really have no clue anymore - people are really resistant to being explained why they've been completely wrong.
What scientific evidence do you have to back up that claim? As far as I'm concerned, a slave owner in the 1860s would make the same exact argument.
Almost worldwide, medical doctors consider frontal lobe activity (and a history of such - so having been conscious once before) as personhood. That's why a person with an artificial heart is still considered a person and "alive."
To understand that, you have to read the rest of my comment. Slaves are, mentally, the same as everybody else, so there is a person inside their brain. The brain is a computer - like a laptop on your desk, except made of meat. The person is the software - like software in your laptop, but processing data in a different way. Start with the example at the end of my comment. When I wrote Is it understandable from that that people aren't identical to organisms?
Sorry about the tone of my comment from an hour ago, I should've phrased it in a more friendly way.
Now I realized you misunderstood what I said. I didn't say that only some organisms were people (which would match your example with slaves), I said no organisms were people. People aren't organisms, people are computations (=software). I wasn't making the set of people more narrow. I was explaining what a person is. No person is an organism and no organism is a person. It should be understandable from my example with conjoined twins, two people in a single organism. (Because there are two computations inside, each running on one brain.)
have you done any reading since those textbooks were published?
I think this focused on the wrong thing. Sure, life begins at conception because if allowed to develop unhindered the fertilized egg will become a human. But it's not a person, at least not yet. The conversation should be around personhood. And no biologist would tell you a zygote is a person.
Society historically and contemporaneously doesn’t consider zygotes people. We reckon our age from our birthdays not from conception. We don’t legally register conceptions. Zygotes don’t get names at conception and we don’t hold funerals or religious rites for them if they miscarry.  If a zygote dies we don’t do autopsies to figure out cause of death. No one gets a tax break for a zygote dependent that hasn’t yet been born. The idea that a zygote is a person is a recent and radical idea.
Society historically and contemporaneously didn't consider black slaves people. Birthdays are, of course, entirely arbitrary, and not an exact measure of age. A child could be born weeks premature or days late, or whenever their doctor decide that they need to be C-sectioned out. But since it's difficult to pinpoint exactly when fertilization occurs unless a baby is conceived in vitro, birthdays are a reasonable shortcut. Good enough for government, right? Age-related laws are so arbitrary to begin with (is a guy on the day of his 21st birthday really more mature than he was on the day before his 21st birthday?). The blog post makes the false and anti-scientific claim that a zygote is not a human life.
It remains notable that there is no real movement to grant zygotes all the rest of the aspects of being considered people. It only comes up in this one aspect related to abortion.  I think that is telling in terms of whether people really consider them people or not. Even when some people didn’t want to consider slaves people, there were always some people who thought they should be granted everything that we consider reasonable to grant people.  That’s the important difference. Fundamentally, the difference is a natural one.  Zygotes bear no resemblance to people.  They have the potential to become people, but without any of the actuality of people. Not only don’t they have a head or a heart, they have no differentiated tissue.  There is just nothing about them that anyone would recognize as a person other than a bit of DNA that could one day be expressed as a person. Certainly beyond that, the fact that zygotes come into existence and die everyday without people even being aware they ever existed also plays a role.  No one wrings their hands about the untold number of zygotes that die without ever living more than a few days or weeks. There is no campaign to address this as there would be if society considered them people.  If abortions stopped tomorrow, no one would continue to worry over the untold losses of spontaneous and entirely natural abortions. To say that they are people for purposes of combatting abortion just rings hollow in light of this.
"Personhood" is not a scientific term that can be qualified with biology. I'm sure plenty of pro-life biologists would consider zygotes persons however.
And yet "persons" are a real, socially defined set of things, and might be understood as the ultimate objects of moral consideration. In chasing the red herring of "when life begins", you are ceding the real battleground of personhood to anti-choicers. I for one absolutely refuse to allow muddle-headed religious fundamentalists to dictate from their holy books as to what does and does not constitute a person. And it's clear to me that a zygote is not a candidate, whatever anyone says.
So, 70% of fertilized ovums fail to implant in a uterus, which means they die even before they become a pregnancy. Is sex reckless manslaughter of fetuses since the majority die and they do so without consent? I.e. they are brought into existence and then die, all without consent? If sex to you forces a zygote into existence without it's consent, then can't you argue therefore that it's a criminal act that leads to the non-consensual death of most zygote persons? That's literally the definition of reckless manslaughter. I mean it must be pretty horrific to you if you consider every fertilized ovum a person from the moment sperm meets egg... And even after that, 30% of pregnancies result in miscarriage. So, again, more manslaughter? (Again because a zygote was kidnapped into existence in the first place, and then only ended up dying?) Can a born child sue their parents for creating them in the first place? Lastly do you think a woman should register every missed period with the government in the off chance she may be harboring an unregistered person? That's kind of like kidnap right? Child abuse? Should all miscarriages also be registered and investigated by the government? Can I drive in the carpool lane if I'm 3 weeks pregnant? Can I mark a zygote as a dependent on my taxes?
Completely false. There is absolutely no sense in which life, whatever is meant by the term, could be said to commence during the process of conception/fertilization. Conception is a process, not a distinct point in time. The process of conception, also known as fertilization, involves many chemical reactions and processes. It is not an instantaneous occurrence. Somewhere along that set of chemical reactions, which finally result in two cells with a unique human genetic combination (the zygote immediately after the fusion of sperm has two pronuclei – one from the sperm and one from the ovum), are we to say that a single human life has started? If so, at what point does that happen? The fact of the matter is that conception is no less of an arbitrary ‘line in the sand’ than any other point that one picks, such as the development of the brain, birth or development of self-awareness. Let's now take a look at the evidence you have cited. The evidence shows us that textbooks are not actually a good indicator for pieces of evidence in this debate: Excerpt from Dr. Ricki Lewis, a science writer with a PhD in genetics and biology and author of several textbooks and thousands of articles in scientific, medical, and embryological publications. “Life science textbooks from traditional publishers don’t explicitly state when life begins, because that is a question not only of biology, but of philosophy, politics, psychology, religion, technology, and emotions. Rather, textbooks list the characteristics of life, leaving interpretation to the reader.” http://blogs.plos.org/dnascience/2013/10/03/when-does-a-human-life-begins-17-timepoints/ Dr. Scott F. Gilbert, a legendary Ph.D from Swarthmore says “As an embryologist and the author of embryological textbooks, I can say with absolute assurance that there is not scientific support on life beginning at conception, this is not a biological fact”. http://phenomena.nationalgeographic.com/2014/11/17/personhood-week-conception-is-a-process/ Here is an excerpt from a lecture by Dr. Robert Wyman, chair of the Yale Biology department: "There is a lot of false misunderstanding out there, We always hear "It is a scientific fact, as any basic biology text will confirm that life does begin at conception. The fetus is a live human being, distinct from, while dependent on, its mother. It deserves the full protection of its rights." That's what's common out there. Not only is it what people, most people personally believe, but it's generally considered to be a scientific fact. I've heard this from pro-life people and pro-choice people, almost indistinguishable. The question is--you've all had high school biology at least, how many of you had college biology? A few of you, guess what? That isn't what--that isn't at all what a beginning biology textbook says. What does it say? This is from--they send professors free copies of textbooks, so I just opened up one that they happened to send me, and it shows something quite different. It shows life as a cycle. There's no start point here. Fertilization is one of the events going around the cycle. This is the essence of sexual reproduction. We also know that there's asexual reproduction, which doesn't have this stuff [fertilization] at all. The cycle is the switch between a haploid genome, which means one copy of each chromosome, and diploid, when each cell has two copies of each chromosome. With sexual reproduction--there's always some version of this one copy/two copies cycle. When we look in detail, this again from the same freshman, very popular, very big selling freshman college biology text. It talks about three different sexual lifecycles. In--the one that you're most familiar with, which is animals. What happens is you start with a--a multi-cellular organism, that's you. Then meiosis--the splitting of the chromosomes so that the gametes get--this is 2N, N being the number of chromosomes, start from 2N, there's a process called meiosis in which pairs split and you get cells with only one copy of each chromosome, those are called gametes or germ cells, and then from another individual you get a second N and you go back to the diploid phase.” - Dr. Robert Wyman http://oyc.yale.edu/sites/default/files/mcdblecture23notes_0.pdf (The full report from Yale on why life does not begin at conception and why textbooks do not say this.) Also, let’s look at some examples from textbooks that you brought up. I will be quoting P.Z Myers a distinguished biologist on this section: “NONSENSE. “Human” in these cases is a general descriptor for the origin of the cells; it’s a statement about the type. You might as well say that that one quote about a “male and female haploid gametes (sperm and egg)” clearly states that sperm and egg are human, therefore science says we ought to criminalize menstruation and masturbation. One other point I have to make about these sources: the Moore and O’Rahilly texts are specifically medical embryology textbooks — they are not good sources for information about general developmental biology, and are a bit blinkered in their perspective, and tend to focus on superficial aspects of descriptive morphology. That’s fine for medical and nursing students, I suppose, but if you want to actually understand the mechanics of development, they’re useless. They’re doubly useless if you read them with an agenda that refuses to be budged by the facts. I can cite scientific literature too! Pass F, Janis R, Marcus DM. (1971) Antigens of human wart tissue. J Invest Dermatol. 56(4):305-10. Warts are human. Ban squaric acid, laser surgery, and topical liquid nitrogen treatments! (Warts actually are human: they are made of skin cells stimulated into benign overgrowth by incorporation of genetic material from a virus. They also therefore have a unique genetic combination.) Kim HB, Lee SH, Um JH, Oh WK, Kim DW, Kang CD, Kim SH. (2015) Sensitization of multidrug-resistant human cancer cells to Hsp90 inhibitors by down-regulation of SIRT1. Oncotarget. 2015 Sep 25. [Epub ahead of print] Cancer cells are human. They are also genetically distinct from their host, with a unique molecular signature. All the arguments used by these people denying Nye’s statements can also be applied to cancer. Finch CE, Austad SN. (2015) Commentary: is Alzheimer’s disease uniquely human? Neurobiol Aging. 36(2):553-5. Scientists refer to diseases as “human”, too? Do we need to get informed consent and a signature from neurofibrillary plaques in the brain before we can try to treat it? My point is not that warts, cancer, or diseases need to be regarded as persons. It’s that “human” is a very broad term that is applied to a lot of kinds of cells, and it takes a particularly naive person to browse through the literature and go “A-ha! My biases are confirmed by this quote!”” http://scienceblogs.com/pharyngula/2015/10/01/bill-nye-and-abortion/ So in essence, you really don't have any evidence on this matter.
Hard to take some pro-choicers seriously when one side cites multiple biology textbooks used in medical schools and the other side cites Bill Nye. I feel like I'm arguing with a flat earther or someone who denies the existence of climate change, in the face of such overwhelming evidence. When a specific egg and a specific sperm join a specific unique individual is formed. The creature that formed at conception was me. Before, there was no "me". After, there was simply growth and development. As I noted earlier, intellectually honest pro-choicers usually make their arguments based on ideas like "bodily autonomy" rather than denying high school level biology facts.
Nope. You cite multiple textbooks that aren't actually used in high-level reproductive biology courses, such as at Yale University. And then you used these vague interpretations to pursue a worldview that is incoherent in the face of overwhelming evidence. I can tell you didn't even bother to read what I sent you because I didn't cite Bill Nye. I cited some of the nations top biologists and experts in this field, many who are textbook authors and clearly repudiate the interpretation you are getting from these very generalized texts. I am glad you brought up the term "consensus". Because let me show you what an actual consensus looks like: here is a list of medical and scientific organizations that support the right to choose. American Medical Association: "[We] oppose legislative interference with the practice of medicine and a woman’s relationship with her doctor... Access to safe and legal abortion is an important aspect of women’s health care. Abortion is one of the safest medical procedures performed in the United States." https://www.acog.org/~/media/News%20Releases/20131220Release.pdf The American Medical Women's Association [AMWA] will oppose efforts to overturn or weaken Roe v. Wade, either directly or indirectly, as in the case of legislation which burdens access to the abortion procedure. AMWA considers all such laws and court rulings to interfere with the doctor-patient relationship, and thus to violate medical autonomy and pose threats to the individual as well as the public health." https://www.amwa-doc.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/12/August-3-2017-Amici-Curiae-Brief-for-Planned-Parenthood.pdf Association of Reproductive Health Care Professionals: “Abortion care is a critical component of comprehensive reproductive health care, and ARHP supports a woman’s right to choose to have an abortion. The decision to continue or terminate a pregnancy belongs to the pregnant woman. ARHP opposes any judicial, legislative, or administrative attempt at the local, state, or federal levels to ban any abortion procedure or medical procedure to terminate a pregnancy.” http://www.arhp.org/about-us/position-statements The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) supports the availability of high-quality reproductive health services for all women and is committed to improving access to abortion. Access to abortion is threatened by state and federal government restrictions, limitations on public funding for abortion services and training, stigma, violence against abortion providers, and a dearth of abortion providers. Legislative restrictions fundamentally interfere with the patient-provider relationship and decrease access to abortion for all women, and particularly for low-income women and those living long distances from health care providers. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists calls for advocacy to oppose and overturn restrictions, improve access, and mainstream abortion as an integral component of women’s health care." "Safe, legal abortion is a necessary component of women’s health care. https://www.acog.org/About-ACOG/News-Room/Statements/2016/ACOG-Statement-on-Abortion-Bans?p=1 https://www.acog.org/Clinical-Guidance-and-Publications/Committee-Opinions/Committee-on-Health-Care-for-Underserved-Women/Increasing-Access-to-Abortion The American Academy of Family Physicians "RESOLVED, That the American Academy of Family Physicians support chapter efforts that oppose legislation that imposes on abortion providers unnecessary requirements that infringe on the practice of evidence-based medicine, and be it further RESOLVED, That the American Academy of Family Physicians oppose national legislation that imposes unnecessary requirements on abortion providers, reducing doctors’ ability to provide evidence-based and patient-centered care..." https://www.aafp.org/dam/AAFP/documents/events/alf_ncsc/business/sat-advocacy.pdf The WMA (World Medical Association) “recognizes that unwanted pregnancies and pregnancies that are too closely spaced can have a serious adverse effect on the health of a woman and of her children. These adverse effects can include the premature deaths of women. Existing children in the family can also suffer starvation, neglect or abandonment resulting in their death or impaired health, when families are unable to provide for all their children. Social functioning and the ability to reach their full potential can also be impaired. The WMA recognizes the benefits for women who are able to control their fertility. They should be helped to make such choices themselves, as well as in discussion with their partners. The ability to do so by choice and not chance is a principal component of women's physical and mental health and social well being. Restrictive abortion laws are not associated with lower abortion rates. In countries where induced abortion is highly restricted by law, safe abortion has frequently become the privilege of the rich, while poor women are left with little choice but to resort to unsafe providers."  https://www.wma.net/policies-post/wma-statement-on-family-planning-and-the-right-of-a-woman-to-contraception/ [World Health Organization] WHO, with support from an international consensus and prompted by human rights obligations, has responded to a major neglected public health need of women...until abortion is decriminalized, the tragedy of unsafe abortion will continue to haunt us and to threaten the life, health and rights of women. Furthermore, research aimed at developing simpler, improved methods for performing induced abortion has the potential to save the lives of millions of women globally." http://www.who.int/bulletin/volumes/90/9/12-107144.pdf I can't wait for you to tell me these millions of doctors don't understand science and biology like you do. Btw could you please cite a credible, medical or research organization that supports your view? I will wait. Could you also maybe cite any peer reviewed studies published in scientific journals, just as I did, that argue for your view as well? "Scientifically, a zygote is both alive and human, as are the gametes that give rise to it and the cells that result from its division. What is new about a zygote is not that it is alive or human but that it has a new genetic constitution. What is not yet present, however, is a new individual, in the sense of a person as defined by common usage and carried over into our concept of human rights......The key word is "attributes." If the attributes are expressed in terms to which science can be applied, then science can assist the law in establishing the appropriate developing stage.....What is clear, however, is that one widely, though not universally, the accepted attribute is wholeness in the sense of indivisibility. Scientifically, we know that this attribute is not present in the mammalian zygote. Similarly, a widely accepted attribute is sentience or behavior that suggests it. Scientifically, we have good reason to expect that sentience is not present until the nervous system reaches some necessary level of maturation. Dr. Clifford Gorbestien, Science, Technology and Public Affairs, University of California, San Diego Defining Human Life, Science, New Series, Vol. 214, No. 4516 (Oct. 2, 1981) "There is a lot of false misunderstanding out there, We always hear "It is a scientific fact, as any basic biology text will confirm that life does begin at conception. The fetus is a live human being, distinct from, while dependent on, its mother. It deserves the full protection of its rights." That's what's common out there. Not only is it what people, most people personally believe, but it's generally considered to be a scientific fact. I've heard this from pro-life people and pro-choice people, almost indistinguishable. The question is--you've all had high school biology at least, how many of you had college biology? A few of you, guess what? That isn't what--that isn't at all what a beginning biology textbook says. What does it say? This is from--they send professors free copies of textbooks, so I just opened up one that they happened to send me, and it shows something quite different. It shows life as a cycle. There's no start point here. Fertilization is one of the events going around the cycle. -- Dr. Robert Wyman, (Professor of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1998‑present Program Director, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Undergraduate Science Education Program, 1989‑present Professor of Biology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1980‑1998) http://oyc.yale.edu/sites/default/files/mcdblecture23notes_0.pdf
Some more quotes: "The idea that "life begins at conception" is not a scientific one. Since the disproof of 'spontaneous generation' (1668-1859), we have known that life only derives from life. Life arose billions of years ago and has continued since as a cycle. Assigning a beginning to a cycle (like the year) is arbitrary." -- Dr. Robert Wyman, (Professor of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1998‑present Program Director, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Undergraduate Science Education Program, 1989‑present Professor of Biology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1980‑1998) "Every human sperm and egg is, beyond the shadow of a doubt, alive. They are not human beings, of course. However, it could be argued that neither is a fertilized egg." -- Carl Sagan, (Astrophysicist, astrobiologist, Authored over 600 scientific papers and wrote several books about astronomy and natural sciences.) "If the embryo loss that accompanies natural procreation were the moral equivalent of infant death, then pregnancy would have to be regarded as a public health crisis of epidemic proportions: Alleviating natural embryo loss would be a more urgent moral cause than abortion, in vitro fertilization, and stem-cell research combined," -- Michael Sandel, (Harvard University government professor, also a member of the President's Council on Bioethics.") “What I’m concerned with is how you develop. I know that you all think about it perpetually that you come from one single cell of a fertilized egg. I don’t want to get involved in religion but that is not a human being. I’ve spoken to these eggs many times and they make it quite clear … they are not human beings.” -- Dr. Lewis Wolpert, (Developmental and evolutionary biologist, author of "Principles of Development" and “Triumph of the Embryo”) "Scientifically, a zygote is both alive and human, as are the gametes that give rise to it and the cells that result from its division. What is new about a zygote is not that it is alive or human but that it has a new genetic constitution. What is not yet present, however, is a new individual, in the sense of a person as defined by common usage and carried over into our concept of human rights......The key word is "attributes." If the attributes are expressed in terms to which science can be applied, then science can assist the law in establishing the appropriate developing stage.....What is clear, however, is that one widely, though not universally, the accepted attribute is wholeness in the sense of indivisibility. Scientifically, we know that this attribute is not present in the mammalian zygote. Similarly, a widely accepted attribute is sentience or behavior that suggests it. Scientifically, we have good reason to expect that sentience is not present until the nervous system reaches some necessary level of maturation. Dr. Clifford Gorbestien, Science, Technology and Public Affairs, University of California, San Diego Defining Human Life, Science, New Series, Vol. 214, No. 4516 (Oct. 2, 1981) "One of the commonest questions asked of the biologist by the earnest inquirer into abortion is this: "When does life begin?" Human life is meant, of course. To this, the biologist must give an answer that is definitive and (unfortunately) initially quite unsatisfactory to the Inquirer: "Never!" Life, evolutionists believe, began once some 3 billion years ago, but it has probably never started again on this earth. Life is merely passed on from one individual to another, from one cell to another........The question laymen are muddling toward is this: When does the life of the individual begin? When are we to call the thing that is alive a "human being"? Hardin, Garrett. “Some Biological Insights into Abortion.” BioScience, vol. 32, no. 9, 1982, pp. 720–727. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/1308717. "A starting point that is far more consistent with the facts of biology is not conception but the emergence of the human brain. We declare persons dead when their brains have lost the capacity to govern the core functions necessary for life—breathing, excretion, and the like." -- Dr. Arthur L. Caplan, Director for William F. and Virginia Connolly Mitty Professor of Bioethics at New York University and director of the Division of Medical Ethics at New York University Langone Medical Center. He is the author or editor of thirty-two books and over six hundred papers in peer-reviewed journals. He has chaired a number of national and international committees and writes several regular columns, including one for Free Inquiry since 2006. He is also a fellow of several professional organizations, including the Hastings Center, the American College of Legal Medicine, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.



Simple, a whole new illegal market for abortion pills is created
Well, according to my extensive research, banning abortions has the polar opposite effect than it's intended one: (Unsafe) abortions actually increase. I also read somewhere (don't remember where) that in places where abortion is illegal, more women die from pregnancy and childbirth than in places where abortion is legal. Banning abortions just causes more abortions; you can never completely stop abortion, it will just happen anyways.
Sorry for the late response. But I did have a question. Since you have said you have done extensive research, how would you respond to these links? https://www.reddit.com/r/prolife/comments/6ka453/studies_showing_that_restricting_abortion/?st=ji8hcbms&sh=5cb151d6 http://blog.secularprolife.org/2017/08/pro-life-laws-stop-abortions-heres.html



Hello, pro-choicers! I am a pro-lifer looking for some help. I am doing a debate in my class about abortion, and my teacher is making me debate for the "pro-abortion" side, so basically I am a pro-lifer needing to defend the side of pro-choice. I am taking this opportunity to learn more about the arguments for pro-choicers and hopefully create a good argument for my side. I wanted to know, what is your reason for being pro-choice? Here are some things I think the opposing side may throw at me:"Abortion is murder; it should not be done in any circumstances because it's not the baby's fault.""Women should be responsible for their actions, especially if they're in a situation where they cannot take care of a baby. Contraceptives come with the risk of pregnancy.""A baby has the right to life; aborting it conflicts the unalienable right to life recognized by the Founding Fathers.""Abortions cause psychological damage."These are some pro-life arguments. I would like to see your answer to any of these arguments, and why or why not you disagree. Personally, I believe life begins at conception and babies should not be aborted, but I am very open to other perspectives and arguments! Please help, thank you for your time :)
An embryo isn’t a baby. Most abortions ( I would get an exact number) are done in the first trimester, when the fetus is not viable outside the womb. If someone brings up late term abortion, make sure to state that they are only done if the mother’s life is in danger, or the fetus is severely disabled. I would bring a story from people who had to do it. There was someone on Reddit who posted about how their family shamed them into keeping the pregnancy and the baby was born and suffered horrifically before it died shortly after. Also bring up how women can not be forced to carry a baby they do not want. It’s slavery. Contraceptives fail all the time. Many people have conceived using the pill. Women shouldn’t be punished for having sex. Abortion doesn’t not cause psychological damage. That’s a lie from the anti choice side. What does cause psychological damage is being forced to risk your life to carry to term and give birth, only to either give away a baby you just had or raise a child you don’t want and/or cannot afford.
An embryo is not a human being, and abortion is not murder. There is no scientific reason to characterize a raisin-size lump of cells as a human being. Biologically speaking, such an embryo is far more primitive than a fish or a bird. Anatomically, its brain has yet to develop, so in terms of its capacity for consciousness, it doesn’t bear the remotest similarity to a human being. This growth of cells has the potential to become a human being–if preserved, fed, nurtured, and brought to term by the woman that it depends on–but it is not actually a human being. Analogously, seeds can become mature plants–but that hardly makes a pile of acorns equal to a forest. It pretty implausible to consider an embryo a person, given that they have little to no nervous system. The fact that an embryo has human DNA does not prove it is a person, because human tissue samples have human DNA and human tissue samples are not individual human beings. Reflex movements and hormonal stress responses provide information about sensory connections at lower levels of the nervous system and cannot be assumed to indicate perception or awareness. For perception or awareness, the sensory information needs to be transmitted to the thalamus, the major subcortical sensory nucleus and then to the cortex, the highest region of the brain. Consent to sex is not consenting to pregnancy. "Others might contend that the key issue in determining if a woman consents to pregnancy is whether she uses contraceptives when engaging in sexual intercourse. According to this objection, a woman's consent to engage in sexual intercourse without contraceptives implies that she has consented to the condition of pregnancy. This reasoning is flawed, however, because people have different reasons for maximizing or minimizing the risk that a condition will ensue after an action, and only some of those reasons are grounds for assuming a person's implied consent to a subsequent condition. For example, a person who chooses to smoke a cigarette brand high in nicotine, when other brands lower in nicotine are available, maximizes the risk that lung cancer will ensue after smoking. Yet we cannot infer from a person's choice of a high nicotine cigarette that the person implicitly consents to lung cancer." --- Eileen L. McDonagh, Professor of Political Science, Northeastern University and Visiting Scholar, Radcliffe College. Ph.D., Government Department, Harvard University, 1999, Albany Law Review, “My Body, My Consent: Securing the Constitutional Right to Abortion Funding,” Rights come from is from human sapience. We have the ability to think, to reason. We, alone on planet Earth, are self-aware. It makes us human beings and not animals. Therefore, from our cognitive ability, we have the natural right to liberty, to have freedom of thought and speech and religion (or lack thereof.) And because we have a natural right to liberty, we also have a natural right to life, to keep that liberty going (because, obviously, killing us would also attack our natural right to liberty.) And derived from those two rights, there is a natural right to property, or to owning that which we legitimately acquire. And also, I would argue, we have a natural right to revolution–that when institutions threaten our natural rights, we have the right, or perhaps better described as the duty, to reform or fix those institutions. Whether that involves public education, advocacy, electoral campaigns, referenda, civil disobedience, or at the very extreme end of the scale, armed revolt, we have a right to fix those institutions that harm us and threaten our rights.  Now why am I going into rights theory? I delve into this academic subject because there is really only one category of entity that has rights: people. Inanimate objects such as rocks, computers, and my foot do not have rights. Ideas and dreams do not rights. Fictional characters do not have rights. Abstract notions such as “a society” or “a culture” do not have rights either. I anticipate you will bring up tragic examples of the Jews, Disabled, Native Americans and Slavery, as examples on why we can't define personhood or life, but these points are moot and invalid. Because these definitions were established on a personal discriminatory basis without any scientific, medical, biologically or ethical basis. The point is, individual persons have rights. And that leads directly into one of the major points surrounding the abortion debate. Let's look at the process. It starts with an unfertilized egg, then a fertilized egg. The fertilized egg is unaware of its own existence and does not have a brain. Aborting a fertilized egg is definitely not murder or taking a life. It had no brain and never knew it existed. It merely had the potential to become a conscious human. That same "potential" to become a human existed before the egg was even fertilized. Even at the end of the second trimester, the fertilized egg still has a nervous system no more conscious than that of an animal fetus. It is still not self-aware. If it is aborted it is really no different than if it had never existed in the first place, this qualifications still show that abortion is not taking a life. Destroying a clump of cells that had no conscious brain is not murder, nor is it taking a life, it never knew it existed, it is really no different than if the fetus were never conceived in the first place. It had the potential to turn into a conscious human in the future but that same "potential" existed before the egg was even fertilized.  The prevailing medical opinion is that there simply is not yet sufficient maturation of the developing brain and nervous system to give the fetus any real ability to achieve consciousness or self-awareness that makes the fetus a person. The conclusion that follows from this is inescapable: A fetus is not considered alive and therefore an abortion does not constitute murder. The evidence shows that women don't regret abortions or face psychological damage. Not only do they not regret abortions, but the major emotion that researchers found was relief, after the procedure was completed. A study from JAMA recently took a look at this. The authors of the study concluded that the “overwhelming majority” of the women participating in the study felt that abortion had been the right decision “both in the short-term and over the long term period". The data ended up showing normal levels of self esteem improvement and lower levels of stress and anxiety as time went on showing women are confident and don't experience symptoms of stress and sadness after getting abortions. Keep in mind the American Psychological Association, the Journal of the American Medical Association, and other authoritative groups within the medical community have investigated the alleged existence of “post-abortion stress” or “post-abortion trauma.” None has found it to exist. http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0128832#sec013 A new study released reaffirmed that women don't have any mental health issues, loss of happiness or regrets after getting an abortion. However, it did find that women who were denied abortion requests actually were stressed and experiences mental health issues. Researchers followed nearly 1,000 women who sought abortions nationwide for five years and found that those who had the procedure did not experience more depression, anxiety, low self-esteem or dissatisfaction with life. The study, published in JAMA Psychiatry, found psychological symptoms increased only in women who sought abortions but were not allowed to have the procedure because their pregnancies were further along than the cutoff time at the clinic they visited. the research showed that women denied an abortion have more anxiety, lower self-esteem, less life satisfaction than women who are able to get an abortion. http://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamapsychiatry/article-abstract/2592320
Thanks for the supporting sources and detailed response! I did not know that the psychological damage argument wasn't true, but it seems like the studies say otherwise... I'll have to look at the stats that pro-lifers provide for this argument.
It really isn't. Take a look at my comment here from a previous debate where I debunk a lot of the studies pro-lifers use to push this point.
No child should be so unwanted that their mother would have rather had an abortion
As a woman I'd be more than a little upset if someone else wanted to dictate what I should do with my body (including the life of would potentially be supporting). I would legally be allowed to drink and smoke as much as I want while pregnant, eat what I like, do as many dangerous activities as I am able to do, but not a simple operation to remove something I do not want to be there. I also do not view a foetus as a person as they biologically are only human DNA up to a point. I also believe that people should stop using the excuses that it's not natural, since basically everything we do is unnatural. Scientists have given us abortion, and i think it's far better to keep it legal and responsible than illegal and dangerous.
The "not natural" argument is rediculous because around a third of fertilized eggs never implant and a many pregnancies miscarry. The body will often abort pregnancies that are off to a bad start without any intervention.
Abortion is self defense. The baby's intentions don't matter; if it remains in place it will cause significant physical damage. The potential victim of that damage has the right to defend herself. This argument permits abortion in cases of rape. How would the speaker like to regulate that? If making a false rape accusation against my husband is the only way I stand a chance of getting an abortion, you can bet your life I'm going to make it. I suspect he would agree to plead guilty to get me the procedure - a jail sentence is shorter than the life sentence of living with the damage routinely caused by pregnancy. How do you distinguish quickly between rape victims and women trying to access abortion by any means necessary? The right to life is not the right to use another person's organs without their consent. If you need a kidney transplant, I can reuse to give you one of mine. Your right to life does not give you the right to take it by force. This is simply untrue. You can easily find the studies to counter it.
I'm not sure if it's been brought up yet but I feel that the bodily autonomy argument (especially in conjunction with the arguments against fetal personhood) is a particularly strong one. I would read Thomsons essay 'A defence of abortion' - it's not perfectly analogous to pregnancy  but it's helpful in establishing the hierarchy of rights where bodily autonomy > the right to life. I would also have a look into the arguments put forward during the campaign to repeal the eighth amendment - I think they are helpful in that they address the very real scenario of abortion being almost entirely illegal in a country and the issues that stem from it. Ireland's a very good case study in that regard. You might be able to find some good articles on Irish news websites such as the irish times. If I get a chance after work I'll try to dig up some of my favourites. Edit: off the top of my head another good recourse is the headstuff podcast 'the eighth'. I believe it's on Spotify but it should come up if you Google it. There are a few good episodes in there that you might find helpful if you have the time.
Personhood is the most persuasive argument. An embryo is human just like nails are human but it's not a person. It has no consciousness. It's just potential that abortion stops but you could say there's potential for a person every time fertile people have sex. I wouldn't exist if my mom had aborted me but I also wouldn't exist if she just wasn't in the mood the day I was conceived. The argument about psychological damage is the easiest one to address. There are many scientific studies that show no such thing. Also, as a woman who had an abortion 5 months ago I can guarantee you I wasn't traumatized or even affected psychologically. I was relieved and I'm happy with my decision. When I was pregnant, I felt terrible and what brought me to tears were all the pregnancy symptoms. I hated seeing my body change against my will, I hated every cramp, every time I was short of breath from minor exercise, every time I was too sleepy to do anything. I felt violated. It's very hard to describe the feeling of having something grow inside you that you most definitely don't want and having constant reminders about it. And I agree that women should take responsibility when they get pregnant. Having an abortion is taking responsibility. It's not easy or fun. It's a serious decision and it's often the best decision because of the circumstances.
Thank you for your response; it was enlightening to read about a personal experience and I can see your point of view. The thing is, I saw not too long ago this woman who also got an abortion and became pro-life after because of the emotionally damaging aspects of it (can't remember exactly what she said, something about emotion).
Again, you need to see how often this happens. The only way to know for sure is through scientific studies. They clearly show that abortion is not psychologically damaging, especially compared to carrying a pregnancy to term. Post abortion stress syndrome is a made up condition. Post partum depression is not though. It's a real illness that happens to around 10% of women after they give birth (don't quote me on the percentage, find sources). So you can easily make the case that giving birth, even to a wanted child is psychologically damaging because women really do suffer. I also have witnessed first hand what a wanted pregnancy did to a family member with a thyroid condition - she developed so many problems and one of them was severe depression, including suicidal thoughts. And she really, really wanted that baby and she's a good mother now but she really, really struggled. Abortion is always safer than carrying pregnancy to term for almost all conditions and illnesses. There are very few diseases, I think MS (don't quote me on that either) that improve during pregnancy, usually pregnancy is much, much riskier than abortion. Also, the risk of death from giving birth is like 7 times higher than the risk of dying due to abortion. Abortion is just safer for the mother all around. From what I've read on r/abortion (I read all the threads there and try to offer my support) the women that really regret their abortions are those who never wanted them and felt that they were forced into them. Women who CHOSE to have an abortion because it was entirely their decision rarely struggle afterwards.
When is your debate and how committed are you to knocking it out of the park?
Not very soon; we're in the researching stage. I'm definitely committed. It's been on my mind for the past week. I want to win the debate and show off my skills, haha. But I'm not experienced with debate, which is why I've been asking for advice and good arguments.
If you want to buy and read a book, try The Scarlet A. Remember that you are not trying to approve that abortion is right — you don’t need to make a pro-abortion argument. Make an argument for pluralism. Make your opponent’s position seem extreme.


I'm generally pro-abortion: in the sense that I think if a woman has reached that decision, it is likely to have been thought through and also the right decision for her.Of course, primarily, this is about being pro-choice: which really is a way of saying: pro-freedom, pro-individual rights.It follows that people should have the freedom / individual right / choice to have as many kids as they like.However, it does not follow that others should pay for those kids. In fact, quite the opposite. If we think others should be forced to pay for kids, then we abandon the principle of freedom / choice / individual rights for those others.In principle, by supporting welfare, we support the right of those others to tell us how to live our lives... the lives that we  are asking them to subsidize. At that point, if they are totalitarian-left they might ask for forced abortions, and if they are totalitarian-religious they might ban abortions. And, in doing so, they would be using the same principle as the welfare-supporters are using.
Nope. You want kids, you pay for them. Abortion is healthcare (it's by far the safest treatment for pregnancy) and healthcare should always be free. Using financial rewards to encourage people to leave pregnancy untreated is a terrible policy.
This is absurd. It absolutely should not be a right to have as many children as you wish and to be financially secure in whatever that number is. Besides the strain that would put on other members of society as well as the environment, it goes so far beyond what is owed to people in a free society.
Exactly. I want a Mercedes, but I can't afford one. Is it fair to ask everyone else to pay for it? No. Of course not.
Imagine your boyfriend raped you and you fall pregnant. You want to get out but you are trapped by the expectations of your family and the shame society put's on survivors of sexual assault. But why do women still have to face such hardships in the 21st century? This is one of the questions we want to stir up with the short film "Close to Nothing at All". A film about freedom, the right over one’s own body and a young woman, who learns to decide over her on life. Tune in and support us to give women in a desperate situation a voice. https://www.startnext.com/close-to-nothing-at-all https://www.facebook.com/pg/Close-to-Nothing-at-All-1821388664835100/posts/?ref=page_internal



They are understandably upset after they have one but that doesn't mean they have medical depression
But there are still several more studies that show a clear and conclusive link between abortion and depression. One study does not discount the findings of several other studies. It’s like me finding one study that claims climate change is not caused by man and heralding it. The pro-choice side is winning the argument over abortion in the West (for now, at least). You thus owe it to women to not dismiss some uncomfortable facts about the current abortion climate- that a significant amount of women are coerced into it by their partners (and sometimes their families) and that it does carry an increased risk of depression and other mental health challenges. These studies are published in peer-reviews journals by reputable scientists in pro-choice countries. Not every study detailing an unpleasant side effect if abortion is a secret attempt by pro-lifers to eat away at your abortion rights.
Exhale.org was specifically designed to help women suffering post-abortion depression. If it wasn't "real" thing then why did they set up this support line with real theapapists?
Of course women feel depressed when they have an abortion, but this article is from WebMD and is talking about depression the mental disorder not the emotion

OP never said depression after an abortion is impossible, neither did the article. The article states that longitudinal data shows that women are statistically not more likely to become depressed after having an abortion.
There’s a difference between medical depression and non medical depression. This is speaking to medical depression. Additionally, a lot of things contribute to a woman deciding to have an abortion and they’re generally not positive. So it’s disingenuous to say the abortion caused the depression as opposed to the stuff that led to that decision.
This article isn't saying it isn't real it just does not happen very often. Once again, I'd say many of the people on r/abortion are understandably feeling depressed and are understandably very upset although the article highlights that clinical depression post-abortion is not very common.
The title of the post says this though.
The title doesn’t say this, the title is saying that statistically abortion does not lead to depression, which is what longitudinal research has found. If it wasn’t it true, then it would have been found that women who have had an abortion are statistically more likely to suffer from depression than women who have not had an abortion. The study uses real data collected over time from women who have had abortions. You’ve been using a few anecdotal cases and acting like that overrides actual research. If you want to prove your case, go do your own longitudinal study with an unbiased sample. You’ve completely left out all of the women on r/abortion talking about their good abortion experiences and how happy and relieved they are to have chosen to have an abortion.
Hey, Spiwolf7, just a quick heads-up:immediatly is actually spelled immediately. You can remember it by ends with -ely.Have a nice day! The parent commenter can reply with 'delete' to delete this comment.
Here's a sneak peek of /r/abortion using the top posts of the year! #1: I hope this helps someone | 6 comments#2: To everyone who lurks on this sub and DM’s people who are already struggling and tries to shame them...#3: My super Christian coworker found out I'm pregnant and won't fucking back off (a rant) I'm a bot, beep boop | Downvote to remove | Contact ^^me | ^^Info | ^^Opt-out
Sure, some women may have depression. But the majority of the evidence shows that most women don't suffer from depression or regret their abortions. The evidence shows that women don't regret abortions. Not only do they not regret abortions, but the major emotion that researchers found was relief, after the procedure was completed. A study from JAMA recently took a look at this. The authors of the study concluded that the “overwhelming majority” of the women participating in the study felt that abortion had been the right decision “both in the short-term and over the long term period". The data ended up showing normal levels of self esteem improvement and lower levels of stress and anxiety as time went on showing women are confident and don't experience symptoms of stress and sadness after getting abortions. Keep in mind the American Psychological Association, the Journal of the American Medical Association, and other authoritative groups within the medical community have investigated the alleged existence of “post-abortion stress” or “post-abortion trauma.” None has found it to exist. http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0128832#sec013 A new study released last month reaffirmed that women don't have any mental health issues, loss of happiness or regrets after getting an abortion. However, it did find that women who were denied abortion requests actually were stressed and experiences mental health issues. Researchers followed nearly 1,000 women who sought abortions nationwide for five years and found that those who had the procedure did not experience more depression, anxiety, low self-esteem or dissatisfaction with life. The study, published in JAMA Psychiatry, found psychological symptoms increased only in women who sought abortions but were not allowed to have the procedure because their pregnancies were further along than the cutoff time at the clinic they visited. the research showed that women denied an abortion have more anxiety, lower self-esteem, less life satisfaction than women who are able to get an abortion. http://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamapsychiatry/article-abstract/2592320
With the referendum for abortion in Ireland resulting in legalising abortion in Ireland last weekend, there is still a large amount of pro-life individuals dishing out their usual jargon of "killing innocent children is not justice"So what is your go to counter argument to this?
Honestly, if someone thinks a fetus is an "innocent child" there really is no arguing with them. I've banged my head against the wall with those people. I guess you could ask if they believe in a rape exception, because if they do that pretty much nullifies that point, but some don't.
For real. I respect them more if they don’t make exceptions. The exceptions prove that it’s an emotional decision and not an attempted logical decision. Someone actually tried to state that they “ don’t believe in ageism at any stage of life” as the reasoning for not aborting prior to 20 weeks. They’ve already applied life and purpose to the fetus and it’s hard to have a discussion when you equate a fetus to an actual living person. I’d listen to what they have to say and if you have knowledge or information that opposes it, then state it. If they do not accept it, move on. It tends to be a religious or emotional reason and until they are in a position in which they have to actually consider having an abortion, they’re not likely to change their mind. I’ve come to the realization that the best bet may be to help them understand that pro-choice does not mean pro-abortion. They’ve probably heard it and they can personally think abortion is not ok, but bodily autonomy is what we are fighting for; it’s not “murdering babies” or “not being able to live with the consequence of our actions” or any other loaded condemnation. Woman have the right to make the best decision for themselves. If you can find a good way to convey that, it may help.
Ditto to /u/Groucho_barks comment. Don’t waste your time getting embroiled in long arguments with those who have already decided that abortion is wrong under all circumstances. When asked respectfully, I don’t deny that an abortion is terminating the life of a potential baby. However the embryo or fetus is not a sentient being, but the woman is. How dare anyone place the rights of the woman beneath the rights of a ‘potential’ baby without thoughts or awareness. It’s also important to press them to accept that abortion is necessary to protect the life of the mother because we are forgetting the terrible fate of women in the days before abortion became available in a safe and legal medical facility. Doctors in those days knew that women who had an unwanted pregnancy suffered depression, family breakdowns, and often resorted suicide or died when suffering the consequences of an illegal abortion. These days, many right-to-lifers accuse women of having abortions for non medical reasons, but if denied an abortion,  woman would have a serious risk of depression and even suicide.
I've argued this with pro-lifers and their response was that it's sad that a woman would be so desperate that she would kill herself, but they don't think it justifies "baby murder".
I love telling them they need to report it to the police
Lately I've settled for stating the following: The majority of bioethicists, people who are EXPERTS on this issue, see no moral conflict with the overwhelming majority of abortions. I'll sometimes add: If you don't have a degree in bioethics or formal training in some respective field of philosophy and are pro-life then you are not only unfit to understand and properly analyze the issue, but are also in disagreement with the experts and very likely unfamiliar with the reasoning underlying the pro-choice position.
You have to redefine the issue.  You can't go on the defensive and accept their definition of pro-choice as " promoting baby killing".  Instead, I've responded by saying pro-choice is centered upon educating woman (and men) in what options are available to (a) pregnant women, including but not limited to abortion, adoption and (b) women of child bearing age who are not pregnant and don't want to become pregnant in the foreseeable future. Never, ever, in a discussion refer to them as 'pro-life".  They aren't.  Refer to them as anti-choice.  Words hold a lot of power.
I like to call them "abortion prohibitionists."
I like this response!
Using pejoratives cheapens debate.
How is anti-choice a pejorative?  It's more descriptive than pro-life.
I’ll tell you why, because the term is borne out of animus and is an attempt to brand the pro-life side as anti-woman. It’s a way of saying that we want to control women when many pro-lifers themselves are women. Now you can do that, and the pro-life side can in return call you “pro-abortionists”, hedonists and compare you to slaveowners and their enablers. But that wouldn’t get anybody anywhere. Everyone will just keep screaming over each other. It would be better to drop the ad hominems and engage with the points people make. Personally, when I’m having a conversation and people begin to use such terms I just go because there’s no point. As for the anti-choice label, I don’t believe people should have the choice to kill the unborn just as I don’t believe people should have the choice to murder, rape or steal. If that makes me “anti-choice” then so be it.
What is the context of the argument?  What are your goals? Often, the best response may be to walk away.
You don't have to try to lay out a persuasive argument, because, frankly, the kind of people who trot out that language usually aren't going to be dissuaded. I find in situations like that, if you'd like to say anything, commenting positively on your own beliefs is often a little disarming . . . almost as if you haven't even read what they've said or written- "Well, I for one think it's wonderful that Ireland has recognized abortion as a woman's right and women there will no longer have to travel in order to safely terminate their pregnancies.", for example.
My argument: Abortion is absolutely killing babies.  It is the right of every mother of every species in the world to abort their babies.  Most species wait until it is born and then eat it.  Nature is brutal as shit.  Human mothers have the right to choose to kill their babies in the same way. We choose to do it less brutally than the rest of nature. We restrict that right to before the baby is born.
Oooh, that's a really good point. I'm sure our ancestors would have been doing the same at some stage. A mother's life is always before her child's in nature, because without the mother the baby has no chance. And while it's barbaric to think of killing independent babies in a society where they can be looked after, in reality a foetus cannot survive without its mother until a certain age. So I'm not sure why its life would ever be valued above that of a living person.
I point out that it is not a baby. A baby can be handed off to an adopted parent, father, grandparent, friend, etc to take care of. A fetus is literally entertwined into the woman’s circulatory system stealing nutrients and giving her waste to filter through her organs.
I don't argue the point, I'll go "yep it's killing innocent kids alright", because they're being alive and being human doesn't have anything to do with why it's okay. It's strictly an issue of the fetus using the woman's body against her will, and anybody occupying anyone's body without consent is gonna be given the boot.
I've found that in a majority of these "Pro-ers", they are so close minded that no amount of scientific and rational facts will penetrate.  A small, sardonic, pitying smile from me, followed by "See you later!" does the trick to get rid of them.
Hi All,Attached is a link to a recent blog post I wrote about my feelings about the title X manipulation. I also included a number of links in the post to groups and info that some may find helpful. Feel free to read and share. Thank you.https://mightylittleadventures.blogspot.com/2018/05/you-vs-church-and-state-or-title-x-just_20.html




Trump doesn’t care. He could afford to pay for his mistresses’ abortions still.
I wasn’t quite sure what sub to post this in, so I apologize if this doesn’t belong.I grew up in a conservative, Christian home, hearing that abortion was bad and kills babies. As I grew up, and started thinking for myself, my views started to change, and I now find myself on the opposite side of the argument. I 100% think women should have the right to choose. But it’s taken me a while to get there, and fully realize it, so sometimes I feel like I’m still figuring out this viewpoint.Whenever I see people use charged rhetoric, referring to abortion as murder, and acting like anyone who is pro-choice is scum, I die a little inside.If I try to have a conversation with someone with an opposing view, i genuinely try to understand where they’re coming from, not to try and change their opinion, but just to understand them. To open the lines of communication to actually work towards solutions instead of becoming more divisive. When I talk to people and they just keep saying the same things over and over, and accuse me of being ignorant or hostile, I just don’t understand how to engage in a productive conversation.I realize that change is happening, maybe slowly, and in small ways. I love seeing that. But when I see people that are so hateful, people that are so stuck in their views that they can’t even have a conversation, it tears me up. I’m heartbroken, I’m angry, I’m hurt. And at times it feels like there isn’t always hope.How do you guys remain hopeful for a better, more pro-choice friendly world? Is there anyway to engage in conversations with people I described above or is it a waste of time? How do you handle such an emotionally charged issue in a positive way?
If it makes you feel better, their movement is shrinking and ours is growing. As people become educated on the topic, and baby boomers die off our cause is having increasingly more support. Hang in there
I hope your right. Most of the adament prolifers I knew were from families of 7+ easily
This is also hard. It seems to be way more common for people to grow up and adopt the same views as their parents. I’ve seen my brother first hand follow my dad’s views almost identically.
Have you seen the latest opinion polls on the pro-life/pro-choice issue? And not just in America, around the world?
A women I went to high school with is anti - choice.  I won't dignify their viewpoint by calling the movement pro-life.  After showing her pictures of fetuses with abnormalities not conducive to life, and having her insist some families would adopt them, I gave up.  You can't enlighten them because the anti-choice position is based on emotion, not fact.  You have to accept that bitter lessen. Hold your head up, know you're in the majority.  And understand you are the one holding the 'compassion' card.
it is not about saving babies or lives it is about punishing women for having sex. Full stop. They dont care about you when you are pregnant, when your baby is born, if you can feed and shelter it. Just as long as they stick it to us whores. I am happy I had the option to not be a mom and I dont regret my choice and would make the same choice if I had to do it over again.
Most of them are beyond reach I'm afraid. You cannot reason someone out of a position that they were not reasoned into to begin with. The abortion prohibitionist crowd has an absurdly romanticized view of life and a women's pregnancy. They don't understand that they need to demonstrate the truth of their position with logical argumentation and so they just scream and shout the most asinine assertions ad-nauseum. They're not likely to ever disappear completely, but overtime they will probably be marginalized to the point of irrelevance given most people intuitively understand that brainless clumps of cells are not actual people.
I mean, just look to Ireland. In 1983 we voted to pass the eighth amendment, which effectively bans abortion, 66.9% to 33.1%. In 2018 we repealed this amendment 66.4% to 33.6%. The most commonly cited reason for voting yes, according to exit polls, was a woman's right to choose. There will always be zealots, unwilling to budge, but from my own experience (limited to canvassing in Ireland, in Dublin South West who voted 74.9% yes) many people are open to conversation. Often they haven't thought deeply on the issue before, but their general moral intuitions lead them to believing abortion should be legal (though morally gray). A lot of people just believe it's none of their business. The people you hear are always going to be those strong in their views - but those who believe abortion should be legal in all or most cases outnumbers those who believe abortion should be illegal in all or most cases at least in the US.
Don't be afraid to leave a conversation, be it online or in real life.  It's really easy to start to believe that if you withdraw from a discussion, you've let the other side "win", or that you always have to have the last word . . . but you don't have to stay, and you don't have to have the last word.  When a discussion stops feeling engaging, when you start feeling dread, just leave.  If it's in a face-to-face conversation, you can change the subject or flat-out say "I don't feel like talking about this any more."  Don't feel like you have to save face. Spend some time in the bubble.  It's not good to live in a bubble; it's important to expose yourself to other viewpoints and perspectives, and to have your thinking challenged.  With abortion and reproductive rights, we have that in spades, which is why a trip into the pro-choice bubble can be a really therapeutic reprieve.  It's surprising how refreshing it can be to enter into a well-moderated pro-choice space where the discussion isn't Abortion Isn't Murder 101 but rather, focuses on intra-community issues where we're all starting from the position that abortion is a good thing. Take breaks.  In any and all activism, you can get burned out and exhausted just by the scope of the obstacles that can seem insurmountable.  You've got to balance it with self-care and things that you enjoy. Remember that the people who are ardently and vocally opposed are obviously the most visible, but that there are a lot more people who might have sort of vague feelings one way or the other, but are quiet about their views and maybe a little undecided or open-minded.  Sometimes, the person you're talking with isn't your actual audience- sometimes the hope is that the silent witness will also be hearing and considering what you're saying even as your actual debate partner really isn't. It's okay to say "Agree to disagree."  As far as I'm concerned, a lot of abortion debate tends to boil down to feelings about fetal personhood and feelings about sex outside of procreative intent, and both of those are things that people frequently feel very deeply first and sort of build their reasons why second.  There's no shame in stating "I don't believe in fetal personhood for reasons X, Y, and Z, but I understand why others might.  I guess we'll just have to agree to disagree."  You'd be surprised at how freeing it can be to kind of nullify someone's attempt to prove The Objective Truth on Abortion (TM) in this way. Spend some [more] time educating yourself, and look at arguments as a way to hone your skills and knowledge.    It's hard not to feel defensive when presented with a critique of your side, but it's also the best opportunity to practice evaluating your own understanding, reasoning, and knowledge of statistics, studies, facts, etc..  Kind of like how tutoring and explaining a subject to someone else forces you to know it inside-and-out more than you ever would have just learning it on your own for your own benefit.  It can feel really positive and even empowering to feel your own knowledge and rhetorical skill grow. You don't have to pour your heart and soul into every response, especially online with strangers.  Copy and paste, baby!  Trolls who type out "babykillers should learn to keep their legs shut" didn't put any thought into that comment, so you can meet 'em with exactly the same level of glibness. Don't forget to do things as well as just talk about them.  Taking action- whatever that may look like for you- makes it real rather than just verbal masturbation, and those accomplished feats can give you fuel and positivity to look back on. Find some role models and inspiration.  It is tremendously heartwarming and soul-nourishing to read or listen or watch people in the movement passionately articulate our views and goals.  Maybe it's hearing Cecile Richards in an interview, or learning about the amazing work Lizz Winstead does.  For me, I get utter chills whenever I re-listen to Rachel Maddow reading Emily Lyons' statement at Eric Rudolph's sentencing (about 6:27 minutes in here). Don't worry about polls.  I've seen the same side come out cheering victory over the same polls, and everybody seems to have one that says they're definitely winning the culture war.  Questions can be asked different ways and of course sample size and data collection can all make for different results, so . . . why worry?  If we're winning, we can always do better, and if we're not, we need to keep grinding away at that stone.  I find I sleep a lot better knowing that I and many others are pro-choice and fighting for a pro-choice future, without needing it to quantified into demoralizing percentages of all Americans.
This is all very good advice! Thanks for the well thought out response!
Education and freedom is the answer, same as it was for you.  Give them facts and truth and honesty and let them decide.  You can hold your head up and be proud you're speaking truth to closed minds.  Whether they hear it, see it, experience it, is a function of how open they are to reality.  Remember that the most virulent denials come from those on the cusp of releasing their ignorance and prejudices.
I'm a pro lifer, and I guess the best advice I can give is learn when to end the discussion. If someone is hostile with you, there's no reason to continue talking to that person. There are extremists on both sides who will never change their mind. So instead, seek out ones that you can find common ground with. If they can't be civil with you, then fuck em!
This is terrific advice, and not well enough known. This makes dialogue the most productive it can be. Kudos to you.
Glad to find a level-headed person :) Knowing when to let go is definitely a good skill to have.
I am pro choice and pro life.  I also approve of a person’s right to end their life with dignity with assisted suicide.  There is no way to communicate with pro lifers.  Opposing sides are like ying and yang, heterosexual or homosexual, black and white. In this case,  the two sides can never meet to make a whole.


I thought it could be useful to both sides, to debate against and to use.
Eboy35, you're being a pest.  You're replying to people making constructive comments at your request with responses that sum up to "but you shouldn't kill babies." Stop it or get banned. Stickied so other people don't waste their time here.

It is cheaper for the government to pay for an abortion, than welfare for 18 years or a full ward of the state.

Unless they go to prison.
again, no murdering babies
Most people never go to prison. Abortion destroys more "good" people then "bad".
Children born when the mother chooses are happier, safer, better off, and better citizens. The same number of children are born whether the unexpected ones are aborted or not... but the later, wanted ones are better off, and the woman is less likely to live in poverty.
do you think we should kill criminals? It sure would be convienient. Or mahbe just the worse 50 percent of socioty
My biological mother was a crack-head who would have made me her third abortion if she had the money. Now I'm 30 years old, I've graduated University and I own my own house. Now I am thinking about starting my own family. People should be given a chance to prove themselves before being destroyed, even if they come from the worst circumstances. They don't always turn into "bad" people.
And there are people who wish they hadn't been born.  Anecdotes are not data. We know that children that are wanted and loved do better.  Abortions allow women to choose when they have kids, and that's better for everyone.
The vast majority of people don't wish they hadn't been born. Even poor people or people with less-than optimal backgrounds. Anyone can always choose to "opt-out" of life but you can never choose to "opt-back-in". "Wanted" children also turn out to be criminals so it is never assured what a person will do with their life. They should be allowed to live it themselves and choose to do "good" or "bad".
Hey, you're the one that brought personal opinions into this.  Either other's opinions and experiences are worth as much as yours are, or you're better than everyone else and those rules for them don't apply to you.
You are only validating the experiences of an extremely small minority and allying it to 100% of the rest. The vast majority of people people don't wish they had been aborted. Since this is the majority then it is logic to err on the side of caution and assume the majority of fetuses would want to be born, just like you and me. Since very few peolpe wish they hadn't been born this is no logical justification to apply that reasoning to all people before they are born and just destroy them in the womb because you think the will grow up hating their lives and turning into criminals.
Since you've switched to speaking for the majority, I'll speak for the majority too.  Since most aborted fetuses would have seriously fucked up their family's life, I bet they're glad they weren't born. By the way, you're the one who said "grow up hating their lives and turning into criminals".  That's your line of reasoning.  Fascinating that you're so obsessed with it.
I've always spoke for the majority of people who want to be born. What makes you think I've "switched" my position? That's not true at all. Even "wanted" children who turn into "criminals" want to retain their lives and bodies, even knowing they "fucked-up" other people's lives. We shouldn't execute people simply because they are a "drain" or we would become an endangered species. That's exactly what you said by pointing out that there are a few people alive now who don't wish they were born. This is highly uncommon and should be addressed by  mental health professionals, not delt with by destroying the individual's future. Your are the one fixated on this point since you don't want to see it from any other perspective and use this flimsy point to justify destroying someone's body and future without their concent.
Most of this is turning into fingerpointing.  Your emotionally charged rhetoric is over the top.  "executing people", for goodness' sake.  I'm going to quote myself:
Are you accusing me of fingerpointing? You are the one accusing me of arguing from an "emotional" standpoint when you are trying to argue by saying people should abort their babies to prevent the child, themselves, and the rest of the world the "emotional distress" of having an "unwanted" child born when there is no way you can prove that will occur.

Any of the benefits (on the individual or the larger societal level) that one might attribute to subsidized birth control can similarly be extrapolated to subsidized abortion.
Except dead babies
I wasn't aware you qualified what you deem "dead babies" as a benefit.
I know that various advocacy organizations (Planned Parenthood, NARAL, etc.) will often set up online form petitions through their own websites that make submission easy so folks can comment, but if someone wanted to comment online on their own, how do they go about doing so?I know it's supposed to be as easy as going to Regulations.gov and searching for the rule, and then clicking on "Comment Now!", but for the life of me, I can't seem to be able to bring up in my search results the new proposed "gag rule" regarding Title X and "abortion as a method of family planning".  I've tried searching "abortion", "Title X", the docket number on this document, even just searching "HHS" by agency with no other filter or search criteria . . . nothing.Anybody with a little savvy or time know what I'm doing wrong?
You have to wait for the official rule to be posted which it hasn’t been yet.
Thank you; I had a sneaking suspicion that was the case, but wasn't sure. Do we have a rough idea of when it will be posted?
Not that I know of /: but I’m sure advocacy groups will announce when it is!

doesn't NI have UK laws? never realized how backward that island was until recently.
Until now NI has been allowed to set its own abortion law. There are currently calls for the UK government to overrule them and legalise abortion because the lack of access is a human rights violation.
Thy still don’t even have marriage equality. Their stuck in their own little regressive bubble.
It’s the DUP they have some ‘ interesting ‘ views https://www.google.co.uk/amp/s/www.newscientist.com/article/2134162-five-things-you-need-to-know-about-dup-politicians-and-science/amp/
With recent events I feel the need to focus my activism specifically around repealing the Hyde Amendment. I’m having trouble finding organizations to connect with that focus on this specific aspect of reduction rights. Can anyone suggest info or organizations that would be helpful? Any insight is helpful. Thank you.
All* Above All focuses specifically on repealing Hyde!
THANK YOU SO MUCH!!

Yes so proud of Ireland for being so progressive they are doing great things
I wouldn’t exactly call it progressive. A step in the right direction yes but not exactly progressive

Great article, Prof Louise Kenny was also brilliant.

http://www.wetrustwomen.org.uk/northern-ireland/
Thank you. The information is appreciated.

VICTORY SCREECH! screeeech
LOLOLOLOLOLOLOLOLOLOLOLOLOLOLOL
Good on you!! Now, if only America could get its collective shit together and quit trying to cram religious values down everyone else's throats...
It’s a great day in history!
Congratulations! It is about time pro-choicers are the majority! Maybe now women won’t be killed or maimed by anti-choice miscarriage laws, forced to continue rape pregnancies and be institutionalized and used as an incubator if they refuse, forced to forgo life-saving cancer treatment because they’re pregnant and to anti-choicers it doesn’t matter if women die because only men and fetuses matter, forced to have their dead bodies kept on life-support to preserve a fetus that is going to die anyways, forced to travel out of the country for an abortion, or be put into laundries and used as slave labor while they are forced to give birth and then have their babies stole from them to be adopted out. It is a damn good day for the women of Ireland!
It took a long while but we eventually moved in 20th century level society. It might be a while before we get to 21st century standard.
Ireland is definitely moving forward in baby steps, I guess it takes a while to get out of the grasp of the Catholic Church. Correct me if I am wrong but I think contraceptives didn’t become legal till the 80s, divorce didn’t become legal till the 90s, gay marriage was legalized four years ago, today abortion was basically legalized, and y’all are still finding bodies hidden at laundries where the Catholic Church forced unmarried pregnant women and girls to go to give birth and perform slave labor.
I really want to know more about those laundries, can you give me a good link?
This is a good article detailing the lives and slave labor of the women held in the Magdalene laundries And this details the conditions the children endured and the discovery of a mass grave on one of the properties.
Omg, that's horrifying. I can't believe that the last laundry was closed in 1996. That's western Europe, WTF? Thank you for sharing this, I had no idea that was a thing!
I'm a bot, bleep, bloop. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit: [/r/irelandonreddit] [r/prochoice] A message from Irish people who believe in freedom of choice to those who don't.  If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads. (Info / ^Contact)
YES.
Too bad the fetuses don't get a choice.
Fetuses will get a choice when they aren’t using a woman’s body. Fetuses don’t get to decide what happens to women’s bodies. Not that fetuses are capable of making decisions, especially about the state of women’s uteruses. Finally the women of Ireland get to decide what happens to their bodies and lives! Now women like Savita Halappanavar get to decide if they are going to have a life-saving abortion or wait till a fetal heartbeat stops and then die from sepsis like anti-choicers chose for Savita Halapanavvar. Now women like pregnant cancer patients Sheila Hodges and Michelle Harte get to decide if they are going to undergo cancer treatments and potentially survive or forgo cancer treatments like anti-choicers decided for Sheila Hodges and Michelle Harte and die from cancer, neither of the fetuses were brought to term. Now pregnant women will be able to choose medical care and will no longer be forced by anti-choicers to only undergo medical procedures beneficial to their pregnancies and not them. Now brain-dead pregnant women can be given the same choices that go along with bodily autonomy as brain-dead non-pregnant people have. In 2014 the body of an unnamed Irish woman was forced to be kept on life-support after she was found to be brain-dead because she had been pregnant. This went against all patient rights and how brain-death is typically treated, her family chose to have her buried and was overruled by anti-choice law. She was kept on life-support for weeks before judges finally ruled that she could be buried. Now pregnant bodies can be treated with the same dignity of non-pregnant bodies. Now suicidal raped women and girls like the suicidal child rape victim called Ms Y will get to choose if they will terminate their unwanted rape pregnancies or choose to bring their rape pregnancies to term and give birth even if they have to be institutionalized for 17 weeks and forcibly given a c-section at viability, like anti-choicers chose for Ms Y. Now unwed women and girls can choose to terminate their unwanted pregnancies or choose to go into a laundry and be used as slave labor indefinitely, while their babies are then stolen and adopted out to good Catholic families, this is the choice anti-choicers have made for countless young women and girls throughout history. Now women seeking a termination for whatever reason will be able to choose to have their abortion at home in Ireland or choose to spend their money and time traveling to the UK or another pro-choice country to have their abortion, which is the choice anti-choicers have made for women for years. It is a damn good day for choice!
I wish I could upvote this more than once. I want to frame this and hang it on my wall. I want to put this on a giant billboard. I want to print this out and recite it to anti choice protestors outside planned parenthood. This is by far the best thing I’ve read all week.
its been incredible , a day like no other.
Fetuses don’t have the capacity to choose stuff. Their ‘choice’ is irrelevant.

The fact that it’s life no longer depends on living inside someone else’s body.

Just because 21 weeks is the youngest, it doesn’t mean that every singe 21 week fetus could survive. Yes, I support abortion throughout the entire pregnancy. No one just decides to get an abortion just before giving birth for no reason. The only reason late term abortions are even legal in most places are if the pregnant person’s life is at risk or if the fetus has a fatal defect. Do you support forcing people to carry a dead/dying fetus to term? Or forcing people to die during pregnancy? And what on earth has Brittany had Abby Hensel got to do with this? They are grown women who are capable of thought and are actual people. Not fetus who are living inside someone. The fact that one cannot survive without the other doesn’t make them comparable to pregnant people. In fact, they are completely different because if a fetus dies, the pregnant person will still be alive. If Brittany dies, Abby will also die.
Yet it is definitely possible. You said yourself: These girls would fit that discription since each twin depends on shared organs that exist inside a shared body.
You didn’t read my full comment then. The Helsel twins cannot survive without the other, while a pregnant person and definitely survive without a fetus. Conjoined twins are completely different to a pregnancy.
I have never heard that one of the twins could not survive without the other, and Google is returning anything of value (but I'm on an Android phone right now so it doesn't return everything). Not trying  to be combative but could you provide a source on this?
I don’t have a link to the source I read that in at the moment and honestly I don’t really feel like finding it right now, because it’s quarter to four in the morning and I want to go to bed.

Birth is literally the most dangerous part of a pregnancy where all the blood loss and trauma (internal wounds) occur. That's a choice ANY legally abiding citizen has a right to, even if it means justified homicide occurs.
A fetus is innocent. It isn't trying to hurt anyone. Justified homicide is only for self-defense when you are being directly attacked. A fetus is not attacking anyone simply by existing.
Nope. Justified homicide is irregardless of the mental fitness (ability to be morally guilty at trial due to motive and consciousness) of the person unlawfully threatening you. By your logic therefore, as long as a person was mentally incompetent they could own my body. And btw, if you want to say it's "attacking" then that's the word you can use. But biologically a zygote burrows on it's own into the lining of the uterus or else it's not a pregnancy. It's either there with or without continuous consent, just like for all other persons. Or do you think sex is kidnapping of a fetus into existence? Edit: BTW take my upvote for polite discussion.
Why are you even on a Pro-choice subreddit?
Sir, I completely agree with you and the post. We do get a lot of trolls and fanatics here, but having engaged with u/Spiwolf7 in the past, I can assure you that while they are misguided at times, they are civil and genuinely do engage in honest and truthful dialogue, which we at r/prochoice should be supportive of.
I can be anywhere I want as long as I obey the rules. Please join the discussion with others like myself at r/prolife r/trueprolife and r/abortiondebate. It's good to get out of the echo chambers of Reddit.
My country was an echo chamber for years. We had the 8th amendment for years which screwed everyone over.
Not at all. The Irish can (pretty much) voice their opinions on anything in any forum. I'm curious though; now that the 8th is repealed do you consider Ireland to be a "pro-choice echo-chamber" now that it fits your personal preference? Or is it only an "echo-chamber" when you don't like what is the "norm"?
‘Get out of the echo chambers of reddit’ ‘But don’t forget to go to the prolife subs first!’
What do you mean? I'm inviting r/prochoice there so it will be even less of an echo chamber. 🤗 (The r/prolife circle jerk gets boring after a while even for me). It's good to have (civil, respectful, and constructive) discussions about this. There are tons of pro-choice posters there who respond. Personally I love discussion/debate! I used to be 100% pro-choice so I would love to hear something that would make me come back around to the pro-"choice" side. (After 6 years of being decidedly pro-life though I haven't found any).
How about you give me the argument that convinced you to become an abortion prohibitionist and I'll walk you through why it's a bad argument. I'm all ears. 🤗
Do you like life? Do you wish you had been aborted? I assume not. Neither do 99% of us. It is very safe to assume that if we were somehow able to ask the fetus if it they wanted to be aborted they would say "no". A zygote is a human organism with it's own life to live. Why is it okay to needlessly destroy someone else's body and take their life from them without even asking?
Sometimes. This isn't an argument btw. Sometimes. Not an argument. How do you know this? You haven't been aborted, so you have nothing to compare your experience to and if you were dead then you wouldn't be able to experience anything at all. These are really stupid questions that are akin to emotional appeal. I don't think you've actually thought this issue through. This isn't an argument.  You're presupposing that being a "human organism" is sufficient to derive moral value and I reject this proposition on the grounds that it's truth value has not yet been demonstrated. Fetuses are not "someone." They are not "people," as they lack the necessary cognitive faculties to exhibit sustained normative brain function exhibited by human entities known to possess personhood.
Fetuses absolutely are "someone". A fetus has it's own body and own DNA. You and I were both fetuses at one point and we are both still alive because our mothers didn't destroy our bodies before we got a chance to take a breath. You would say though that you usually enjoy life though, otherwise you would have just "opted out" by this point just like most of us that are still alive. You reject it simply to fit your own narrative of disallowing human rights by denying "personhood". A fetus is human. This is proven by science. They deserve human rights.
I'm going to forego responding to your sophistry, fallacies of ambiguity, and non-arguments for the sake of asking you how many people you see here and why.

[removed]
Civility goes both ways. They are genuine trolls and fanatics, but u/Spiwolf7 has followed the rules and not engaged in anything that constitutes trolling for now.
OK.
People have choices. A fetus is not a choice. The ability to make choices is part of the right to life, which the fetus does not have.
How much "choice" does someone need to exibit to be considered a "person" to you? A fetus can chose to "kick" and move around in the womb which is not much more than "choice" than a newborn. An adult in a coma doesn't have much "choice". If they are going to wake up in 9 months would you be okay with pulling the plug on them before they get a chance?
I was saying that the fetus does not have a right to life. Not that the fetus needs to make choices. Rights come from is from human sapience. We have the ability to think, to reason. We, alone on planet Earth, are self-aware. It makes us human beings and not animals. Therefore, from our cognitive ability, we have the natural right to liberty, to have freedom of thought and speech and religion (or lack thereof.) And because we have a natural right to liberty, we also have a natural right to life, to keep that liberty going (because, obviously, killing us would also attack our natural right to liberty.) And derived from those two rights, there is a natural right to property, or to owning that which we legitimately acquire. And also, I would argue, we have a natural right to revolution–that when institutions threaten our natural rights, we have the right, or perhaps better described as the duty, to reform or fix those institutions. Whether that involves public education, advocacy, electoral campaigns, referenda, civil disobedience, or at the very extreme end of the scale, armed revolt, we have a right to fix those institutions that harm us and threaten our rights.  Now why am I going into rights theory? I delve into this academic subject because there is really only one category of entity that has rights: people. Inanimate objects such as rocks, computers, and my foot do not have rights. Ideas and dreams do not rights. Fictional characters do not have rights. Abstract notions such as “a society” or “a culture” do not have rights either. I anticipate you will bring up tragic examples of the Jews, Disabled, Native Americans and Slavery, as examples on why we can't define personhood or life, but these points are moot and invalid. Because these definitions were established on a personal discriminatory basis without any scientific, medical, biologically or ethical basis. The point is, individual persons have rights. And that leads directly into one of the major points surrounding the abortion debate. It starts with an unfertilized egg, then a fertilized egg. The fertilized egg is unaware of its own existence and does not have a brain. Aborting a fertilized egg is definitely not murder or taking a life. It had no brain and never knew it existed. It merely had the potential to become a conscious human. That same "potential" to become a human existed before the egg was even fertilized. Even at the end of the second trimester, the fertilized egg still has a nervous system no more conscious than that of an animal fetus. It is still not self aware. If it is aborted it is really no different than if it had never existed in the first place, this qualifications still show that abortion is not taking a life. Destroying a clump of cells that had no conscious brain is not murder, nor is it taking a life, it never knew it existed, it is really no different than if the fetus were never conceived in the first place. It had the potential to turn into a conscious human in the future but that same "potential" existed before the egg was even fertilized. An fetus doesn't have rights.
That's because fetuses don't have the cognitive faculties required to exhibit even a sliver of sustained brain function. You know, the thing which serves as the dividing line between actual people an insentient blobs of biological tissue. How does it feel to know that the majority of bioethicists, people who are experts on this issue, see no moral conflict with the overwhelming majority of abortions? Are you a bioethicist? No? Then sit down and shut it. You're out of your element.
Lol so triggered! 😂 Why are "choicers" always so touchy and rude when you all resopnd? Anger and immaturity don't make you look very intelligent or make your argument any more appealing and is just bad pr for your side. I think we should strive for a respectful conversation. Fetuses develop brain activity well before being born. Anyone can tell you this, even your fellow "choicers".  What do you think makes a baby "kick" in the womb? Bioethics is not set in stone and is evolving everyday. A few decades ago  90% of doctors had no problem with lobotomies, electro shock therapy, and gay conversion therapy. Not all doctors or nurses today think abortion is ethical.
That's why I wrote "SUSTAINED brain function," buddy. Try again. So what? This is a red herring. This is an appeal to authority fallacy. Doctors and nurses are not bioethicists which is a field of philosophy, not medicine.
No brain function = no choice. You’re not alive. You’re essentially suggesting a parasite has rights. Bacteria and viruses feeding off the human body don’t get a choice to continue on. I have the right as the living being to feel better and take meds to get rid of the parasite/host relationship. It’s the same thing with an embryo. An embryo does not have rights. It is not alive. If I want to terminate I can.
Fetuses do have brain function after a certain point. Do you support abortion after brain activity has developed? Also false equivalency, bacteria is not human.
Most abortions occur well before brain function begins. I support late term if a woman needs one and really the only way it happens is if there is a medical issue with the woman or the fetus has a major chromosomal problem. I value a woman’s life over a fetus every time.
Well even born people dont get to force other legal citizens to bleed and maybe even become disabled or die against their will. Do you believe sex with one person, equals a de facto right of a completely separate person to cause another person to be physically threatened, to suffer and to bleed against their will? Zygotes burrow on their own into the lining of the uterus or else it's not a pregnancy, and that act is independent of the mother or father. 70% fail to do so, and so die. So the question is, do you think sex is some kind of illegal kidnap of fetuses into existence such that a zygote owns a woman's body (the government can deny the woman her legal rights) because she's a criminal endangering others (in breach of tort)? ETA: Thus after an ovum is fertilized, if it manages to implant in the uterus than the government can force the woman to yield to it, because the woman kidnapped the ovum into existence. If so, are all failed implantations (70% that die) some form of reckless manslaughter since sex is kidnap (criminal coersion) of fetusus? To me saying sex with one person is consent for a separate person to own your body is like saying sex with one person is consent for a separate person to have sex with me. There's only two ways usually that a government can do this (remove bodily autonomy and force people to bleed.) One is in a draft (of which there is just compensation) and the other is if a person is engaging in a crime (so is sex a crime?)


Why does always have to be men?! Foolish assholes
The irony when the no camp of the video is literally an American Pastor who says women should get the death penalty for having abortions. https://metro.co.uk/2017/02/27/hipster-says-he-wants-to-execute-women-who-have-abortions-6475717/

Hello everyone. I have created a centralized place for discussion in regards to the breaking news of Ireland's vote to repeal the Eighth amendment.Background info: Today, the 25th of May, 2018, Ireland held a referendum to repeal the eighth amendment to their constitution, which recognized the equal right to life of the unborn and the mother and was added to it in 1983. A landslide vote, projected to be 68-32 in favor of repeal, this legalizes abortion in the country.Visitors to this subreddit are welcome to participate as long as all of our normal rules are followed.
Next step, Northern Ireland. BPAS is running a campaign to put pressure on the UK government to force NI to change its archaic and cruel abortion ban. If you live in the UK, take action here: http://www.wetrustwomen.org.uk/northern-ireland/
It's one thing to win a vote, but it's another thing when you win by such a margin. Congrats Ireland!
Am I the only one who's doing a happy dance?
No, I have never been to Ireland but yesterday when I heard that to exit polls showed a landslide I cried from happiness and then did a happy dance. There was a full on celebration for the women of Ireland! They have come so far from Catholic domination!
I want too. But I have to console someone I really care about, whose pro-life. And out of respect for them, I'm toning down my celebratory tone.
Its been incredible! So happy for Irish women.  I went to a March outside the Irish Embassy in London in 2016, the referendum what just a dream. Incredible what grassroots activism can do.
Reading some of the horror stories out of Ireland that have been caused by this draconian amendment, I can not believe anyone could live with themselves having voted no or having encouraged people to vote no. A law that allows women to die because their dead fetus still has a heart beat is a pro-death policy and is indefensible. Good for Ireland, and shame on the American right for attempting to influence this election with their ill-informed and misguided arguments and knowledge. Absolutely disgusting.
Hello people of the subreddit r/prochoice. I am a 20 year old male and I want to be enlightened and I have no means of offending you here, I am just curious. First of all, why is abortion a women's right? A choice of females? Does it include all of women who wants their child to be aborted because they dont want to have a child or it has limitations like you cant abort if the child you're bearing can survive? Second, if one of the reason to abort pregnancy is that you cant bear a child because, let's just say, you have health issues that may affect the child in the womb, then why cant you just having yourself check up first if you arent capable of bearing a child  is contraception and doesnt came first in mind before having a sex with a partner? And lastly, if abortion is a women's right, does it mean that even if the child concieved is healthy and can survive after after birth, even if the mother whose bearing the child are capable of giving birth, cant have the right to live?  Or cant be protected by the human rights including the women's right (if the baby is female for example). Please I need reasonable answers BASED ON FACTS AND SCIENTIFICAL PROVEN and keep your answers as constructive as possible. And sorry for my bad english and improperly placed punctuation.
There may be secular/nonreligious arguments for being against abortion in the context of early-stage fetuses, just as there can be for a flat earth., But there are no logical, ethical or rational ones. I used to think the same way with adoption as an alternative but it simply isn't. You seem to have made the same missteps as I had and the scientific/ethical framework level of understanding of the issue as most Pro-Lifers - All these arguments are logically scientifically and ethically untenable. Abortion is a basic human right, it's universally recognized including by the UN and pretty much every women's rights organization for very good reasons. The anti-abortion stance is human rights abuse. But if not well read on the issue it's easy to think the opposite. The basis for it is sentience, personhood, and ex utero survivability. We don't give rights to cells if you have understood dolly the sheep cloning you should know that pretty much all cells can technically give rise to a person. The idea that a cell is a person, therefore, would mean that killing any cell is equivalent to killing a person. You have to see what it is at that stage. And that is a cell. In terms of sentience or personhood, it is closer to/at the same level of any diploid cell than a person. To suggest that just bc it has the natural ability to develop is an appeal to nature fallacy bc as demo started in the dolly cloning example, all cells have the natural ability to form individuals. That one cell has more natural ability and therefore should be given rights is to make an appeal to nature fallacy bc just bc something is natural doesn't make it ethical. Also take the example of bees, many bees develop from a haploid/unfertilzed egg meaning life doesn't begin at conception. Also you either believe a woman has the right to determine whether she wants kids or not. As long as a person isn't harmed it is morally neutral. A cell or a clump of cells prior to sentience stage is mo more ethically problematic than any other cell. Abortion in the early stages is no more problematic than removing any other cell or organ from the body. To understand sentience and the ethical framework for abortion check out these couple of articles. This explains it rather well: http://blogs.harvard.edu/billofhealth/2013/06/26/fetal-pain-laws-scientific-and-constitutional-controversy/ While this is the scientific basis, a meta analysis on the sentience aspect http://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/201429 Y ou can be sure that when the overwhelming majority of ethicists, scientists, the united nations, every human rights organization and secular society as a whole has taken a position that is against pro lifers advocate. The pro life movement has always been the one wrong on the issue.
All we've been talking about for months is Ireland, and it finally happened!
Congratulations! Even a few days ago everyone was saying how tight it would be. What where your favorite parts of the campaign? The incredible fundraising by Togertherforyes was one of mine. Over 500k in a few days!
What happens now? Is abortion fully legalized or is this just the first step? Do they need further referendums to determine cut-off points, etc?
Government will now decide on legislation which should be in place by the end of the year. Based on what was said before the referendum, it'll be 12 weeks on request with conditions after that.

A lot of the Save the 8th social media accounts weren't even from Ireland. Absolutely shameful how they tried to covertly meddle and influence things.
🖕🖕Why are almost half of US women prolife?
Religion
exactly

with bigger than expected margins too neat



Second exit poll says 69% for repeal!
🎉🎉🎉
Ireland, welcome to the early 1970s!
Two thoughts: First, the US is not the world's yardstick for progress. Second, if it were... the 1970s were a fascinating time for abortion in the US.  Building an infrastructure for abortion, struggles between lay feminist staff and (often still more paternalistic) doctors, the rapid improvement on surgical and medical techniques... read Abortion After Roe for more. Other countries have decriminalized abortion since then, like Chile recently, and the law changing doesn't mean there are suddenly doctors who are willing and well-trained.  It's a different process for each country.


It's time Ireland repeals the Eighth Amendment that outlaws abortion.
Praying for the people of Ireland to do God's will and legalize abortion today.
I’m really nervous about this outcome, seems like it’s going to be very tight. If we vote to retain the 8th, I will be truly ashamed of our nation.
Under His Ireland
Please Ireland make the right choice, Vote Yes today for the rights of every Irish woman.

Its in the bag! Happy day for women!

I know I donated to a lot of groups including PP when he got elected.
This whole war between the Anti-Choicers and us Real Pro-Lifers reminds me of The Rebellion vs The Empire and The Resistance vs The First Order.
Terribly sad.  The "pro-lifers" who do this should be ashamed.
Dear Pro-Lifers
Wow, who would've guessed? /s


Were so close! Polls open in 5 hours

This is something that seems to be always consistent. Why does the Pro-life seemingly engage in such intellectual dishonesty all the time.
Good question, and I've thought about it on occasion while never being quite satisfied by any answer.  I call it "pared down morality". While lust has traditionally been regarded as the least serious of the seven deadly sins in the minds of some it has been elevated to a position of being the only serious infraction. Someone else's lust of course, and the consequences are such that abortion is regarded as avoiding proper punishment. In the case of US evangelicals greed is almost entirely ignored and often even glorified. The preacher can dip endlessly into the faithful's bank accounts, but they only fall when caught dipping into the faithful themselves. Pride/vainglory is often similarly elevated via a presumed direct communication from the Lord of the Universe as is wrath which is all right and proper when directed towards the "sinners". Perhaps focusing on someone else's 'sin' is a wonderful opportunity to engage in other depravities with full permission and even praise. Envy ? Well I have a suspicion that this emotion crosses minds that are working their way up to prevent sinners from avoiding punishment. I don't know where gluttony and sloth fit into this, but maybe I'm just not insightful enough. So - pared down morality. If so many other vices are forgotten or even praised the virtue of honesty which didn't even make the classical list of the cardinal virtues can easily be set aside as quite unimportant when weighed against the "God-given" cause. The ends justify the means.

I hope that NSW follows on from Victoria and bans this sort of shabby shit really. I'll leave the first part in this comment... A local Christian pro-life activist has today said enough is enough, after being told he might no longer be able to tell at-risk and vulnerable women undergoing pregnancy terminations that his religion thinks they are despicable sluts. It comes as the Public Health Amendment (Safe Access to Reproductive Health Clinics) Bill 2018 was introduced to NSW Parliament. The bill would ban protesters from gathering around an abortion clinic, with a 150-metre exclusion zone. Ned Frile, a semi-retired Happy Clapper from Sydney’s Hills District, also known as Australia’s Utah, says being on the losing side of the gay marriage plebiscite was one thing, but now being told he can’t call traumatised young women filthy fucking tramps is an actual attack on his freedoms. “It’s like no one respects family values anymore. People are entitled to say and do what they want” says the man who doesn’t want women to be able to do what they want. “What about free speech!” Ned says he simply cannot understand why the teachings of his chosen Judeo-Christian religion aren’t taken more seriously, especially in Sydney, the most conservative city in Australia. “I have the right to spend every waking minute outside an abortion clinic to verbal assault young women going through a very complex and traumatic time of their life” “This is an affront to my rights as a bored older man who never had a very good relationship with my daughters!” Yeah indeed. hahaha
Um... is this a real news source?
It's the Australian version of "The Onion" - so it's mostly a satire site. However, there are millions of Australians and a few NZers that have seen this site and laugh along with it. The recent upset in Ireland for example, shows a generational shift towards abortion and reproductive rights for women, an area that has been influenced by a vocal minority of religious believers that want to stop abortion on demand. The reasons are varied, but mainly as alt right conservatives has forced birth rhetoric as the only area of common ground with each other. NZ and Australia have restrictions on abortion on demand, but being the fairly rebellious peoples, and quiet feminists that agree that it's a woman's right to choose and bugger what other people think, and have used loop holes and various known practices to get around those legal restrictions. Many have quietly questioned these restrictions for decades. I know I have, and with many other questions and issues around reproductive freedoms. I know that NZ is looking at decriminalizing this along with medical cannabis which is very much being fought along demographic lines. Before I forget!! The legal bills around safe access to health services, in the state of NSW is to stop anti-abortion people from protesting outside clinics. The state of VIC in Australia has similar by-laws as many people have been harassed by brain washed religious nutters.










I'm trying to parse what you're saying here but failing . . .

That is sad that they spent all that money when it could have been used in such a way such as volunteering to work with disadvantaged youth in the US.
Americans can't seem to keep our big fat noses out of anything.
and they don’t see the irony in it at all. I’m going to be relieved when Friday is over, but I’m really worried for the result. It’s completely illegal here, by the way, except for extreme mental health issues and only 7 people have had terminations under that law since it was enacted a few years ago








On the contrary, that book makes her love of eugenics very clear. Read it.
I think we are operating under different definitions of what is considered eugenics.
Well, let's find out. What's your definition?
From the Abstract: The basic concept of the eugenics movement in the 1920s and 1930s was that a better breed of humans would be created if the 'fit' had more children and the 'unfit' had fewer. This concept influenced a broad spectrum of thought, but there was little consensus on the definitions of fit and unfit. In theory, the movement was not racist--its message intended to cross race barriers for the overall advancement of mankind. The point is that it wasn't as clear. And the "eugenics" that Margaret Sanger was advocating for wasn't the same as the Nazi's.





"After the cremation, Caroline stored her son’s ashes safely in her hand luggage, and they made their way back to the airport for their flight back to Dublin. Going through security, she saw her bag pulled to one side for checking by staff. “At this stage I started to feel really angry,” remembers Caroline. She implored them to be careful with the bag as it contained her baby’s ashes, and was surprised when they didn’t flinch. “The strangest thing about it to be honest, was they didn’t seem taken aback at all, as if it happens all the time.” A good reminder of why we fight.




I hope they keep saying it anyways and bring that up to Court, because this is government censorship.
At least we know who the real snowflakes are.
It's always been them, no mistake.

Not the groups that cross the line from verbally protesting into physically impairing access to services. In the cases where they don't do that sort of stuff, they don't feel the need to protest "X feet away" type of laws. Those are fine. Groups who can't handle the distance requirements are abusing free speech. And frankly those groups should be OK with the free speech of service-users to say "meh, we hear you but we don't give a shit, so let us do our thing", yet often they're not.
Even if the "x feet away" area includes public property  where anyone should be allowed to speak peacefully under the First Amendment?
Those who can speak peacefully, yes. Physical obstruction is not a peaceful action. Yelling and harassing is not a peaceful action. Stalking is not a peaceful action. If the protesters can behave, fine. Protesters who behave understand the point of the law and will respect it without complaint. It's the other ones who NEED violent and abusive tactics to "get their message across" who are the reason for these laws.
But such restriction include peaceful protesters too.
Like I said, they understand why the restriction is there, and they agree with it since they don't need to resort to physical obstruction.
I mean if they are peaceful and not blocking anyone while on a public sidewalk but within the "restricted zone".
Nobody in their right mind has a problem with those protesters. A few people will never be in their right minds though, no matter what.
There are plent of people who stand for the First Amendment who are not even "pro-life" or "pro choice" but believe in the right to freely express unpopular opinions on a public sidewalk that we all pay for. Are you saying these people are "not in their right minds" because they support the constitutional?
The right to protest doesn’t mean you have the right to harass people. It also doesn’t mean you have the right to subject people and companies/organizations to your protesting. Regardless, there’s a significant difference between not wanting to listen to people call you a murderer for doing something completely legal and someone asking a medical provider for information on a medical procedure.
Anti-Abortion Protestestors have the full right to conduct protests at legislative or government buildings. I disagree with the March for Life at an intellectual level, but I support their right to conduct the protest. I don't support the distortion of free speech to justify interfering in people's private medical decisions.
So you must also be for outlawing Black Lives Matter protests in Ferguson simply because some people died due to the extreme violence there?
Looting and arson are already illegal.
So is harassment and assault?
So you must be in support of legislation that forbids protestors from occupying sidewalks and other public property in order to harass women outside of abortion clinics?
It is already agaisnt the law to block a sidewalk or road, but you can still protest on them just like the cigarette company protesters who were still allowed to protest as long as they agreed to not block paths and stay on public property.
So, in your mind, the type of harassment faced by tobacco executives is equal to that faced by abortion seekers and clinic staff? There's been documented cases of cigarette company employees being murdered, shot, and stabbed at their place of work? Their offices being targeted for sniper fire, bombs, vehicular attacks, and domestic terrorism plots? Did I miss any? 🤔 You're right, I don't see any need for buffer zones or any extra security measures. We ought to treat every protest at every place of business equally, in every state jurisdiction, without regards to past events.
Anti-abortion violence Anti-abortion violence is violence committed against individuals and organizations that provide abortion. Incidents of violence have included destruction of property, in the form of vandalism; crimes against people, including kidnapping, stalking, assault, attempted murder, and murder; and crimes affecting both people and property, including arson and bombings. Anti-abortion extremists are considered a current domestic terrorist threat by the United States Department of Justice. Most documented incidents have occurred in the United States, though they have also occurred in Australia, Canada, and New Zealand. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-abortion_violence HelperBot v1.1 /r/HelperBot_ I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 185159
I never said that. I used this example to demonstrate how demonstratera can be allowed to protest a pivate company at their place of business as long as they stay on public property. I agree.
BLM protested on a public highway. They also protested in front of government buildings. You are comparing two cases that have no bearing with each other.
They protested on public property. A sidewalk is public property. As long as protesters are on public property and not blocking paths or actually assaulting people then they are well within their rights to demonstrate.
In what context? Spontaneous abortion? Therapeutic abortion? Impending abortion? Missed abortion? Only one of these is human made. The Trump administration is going to go down as the dumbest ever.
Dumbest ever so far.
1st Amendment rights > Cadet Bone Spur’s decree.
fucking sickening. sure, more unwanted children being born is exactly what we need. the world doesn't already have enough miserable people in it...
Am I the only one who cringes at this headline?  I understand that you need something snappy and attention-grabbing (and not everybody is aware of what the global gag rule is), but c'mon.  It also irks me that "saying 'abortion'" is the big thing here, rather than the real kicker- banning abortion provision.

It’s pretty damn sad that banning abortions is far more important then preventing another school shooting or an all out war.
Maybe if a pregnant woman was killed in a school shooting he might care ?
He still wouldn’t care. In my opinion (from what I’ve observed). The only people Trump even remotely gives a damn about is rich white males. Trump out right admitted he doesn’t respect women. (If he did. He’d be more focused on trying to improving safety in schools) and allowing abortions to happen for what ever reason. Verses shutting down any and all reproductive care for women.
Trump only cares about him and his brand
Trump doesn’t really care about abortions since he can fly his mistresses out of the country and pay for abortions there if necessary. The whole “anti-abortion” shit is an act to appeal to voters. In fact, most of his claims are just shows.
I couldn't agree more. Trump is just appealing to the evangelical base. There is absolutely no reason to believe he gives a rat's ass about abortion.
You can't comb over human rights, however, Trump needs to instead comb that hair of his.


This article wasn’t as terrible as I’m used to. Still wrong though.
Please explain to me why this credible developmental biologist, who is an expert on this subject, is wrong, using evidence.
First of all, I couldn’t even see the author’s name anywhere on the article. Perhaps it’s there and I just overlooked it, but either way, I’m curious who this guy actually is. I also just find it really interesting because you don’t even agree with everything he said, so I’m not sure why you posted this. But to answer your question. He used the argument of “life doesn’t begin at conception, even the egg and sperm are alive.” I completely agree with this statement but it’s obvious that when people say “life begins at conception” they mean that a new, individual human comes into being. So that section was basically strawman. Then he literally just ends it by saying “oh science can’t say when the soul enters the body so there’s no answer to the question.” I agree that science doesn’t determine when ensoulment occurs, but there are plenty of people who don’t even believe in souls. But science can and does say when a new human organism begins, so him avoiding that was just stupid.
The article is by Dr. Robert Bevens, from his about page: I am a toxicologist/cell biologist, and am preparing a downloadable study guide for biology students, as well as teach at colleges and universities in Central Kentucky primarily in the role as an adjunct professor. I would say he is pretty credible and reputable on this issue. And I think you would do good to read some further information on this area that was present in the comments section.
Sorry, I was on my phone before and it apparently left a lot out. Let me go through it on the computer (where I can now see his name and everything) and get back to you.



This is not the "real" pro-life movement. Do you also push ISIS beheading videos as the "real" Islam? This video was posted 8 years ago.
According to independent RAND researchers who issued a 2010 report for the National Bureau of Economic Research. Between 1973, when the Supreme Court decided abortion should be legal throughout the United States, and 2003, abortion providers have been the targets of more than 300 acts of extreme violence, including arson, bombings, murders and butyric acid attacks. We have evidence of more: more than 176,000 instances of picketing at clinics (and nearly 134,000 arrests) more than 16,000 reported cases of hate mail or harassing phone calls, over 1,500 acts of vandalism and 400 death threats. more than 550 anthrax and chemical attack threats more than 200 bombings and arson attacks at facilities that offer abortion services, Here are documented examples of terrorism: Dr. David Gunn was shot and killed in Pensacola, Florida, by a gunman who was against abortion in March 1993. Dr. John Bayard Britton and his volunteer security escort, James H. Barrett, were shot and killed in front of a Pensacola clinic in July 1994. Clinic employees Shannon Lowney and Lee Ann Nichols were shot and killed in Brookline, Massachusetts, in December 1994. Off-duty police Officer Robert Sanderson was killed in the bombing of a clinic in Birmingham, Alabama, in January 1998. A sniper killed Dr. Barnett Slepian in Amherst, New York, in October 1998. The 51-year-old physician had been the target of anti-abortion protesters since the 1980s. An anti-abortion gunman killed 67-year-old George Tiller in a Wichita, Kansas, church in 2009. Tiller was one of the few U.S. physicians who performed late-term abortions. And oh btw, if you try to argue that this all happened in the past, it won't work, because violence and threats are actually growing from the pro-life movement.
Just because there are some violent protesters in a group doesn't mean we have to limit Free Speech in a public forum. There are plenty of radical "Muslims" but that doesn't mean we should limit the constitutional right of all Muslims and everyone else because of the few.



In the video he alludes to pro-choice people using guns to attack Christians... how ironic.
I think referring to abortions as a "Silent Halocaust" is offensive to the people that actually suffered and died in the Halocaust.




A very good article. Pro-Lifers try to shy away from these actions. But they are a very much part of the pro-life history.


"Pro-Life"





This is why my country passed laws that you can't protest within 50 ft of a clinic. Because of violent people like these fucks.
This is why I support the 2nd amendment in the US. Being pro-choice was what lead me to be pro-2a.




Every time I try to argue this angle pro-lifers flip back to it being about the fetus's rights, and after trying to explain that the fetus doesn't have a right to someone else's body, they flop back to the taking responsibility for your actions angle, and back and forth they go.

I watched them a while back and liked them, although I found them too short, which is pretty common for webseries.  And while I do like the creator bringing in her own story about the frequent abortion patient, it does kind of play into stereotypes about repeat abortions and cavalier attitudes . . . like, it wouldn't be a problem if we had a wide and diverse representation of abortion in media, but when there are so few examples, the ones that reflect negative stereotypes stand out even more and are referenced as "that's what it's like" even more.  But on the other hand, of course, there's nothing wrong with needing to have multiple abortions, so leaving that character out could also be a silent judgment about which patients are "acceptable". Overall?  I love the mission behind it, the series was okay, but the phrase "abortion comedy" belongs 100% to Gillian Robespierre and the fantastic Obvious Child.



Even if abortion goes against your religion, you think it's bad or other things, this alone should convince u
They'd rather these women die. They sinned and there are consequences.
And please keep in mind these are people, not cells
I think that their opinion is that these are women, not people.


Hello, as the title states I am pro-life. I am honestly seeking to understand the pro-choice perspective on a question I have. I was hoping to learn when you believe human life begins?I hope you can trust my sincerity in asking this question.Thank you.
I think human life is a continuous flow. Sperm and eggs are alive, they combine to form an embryo which is alive, that forms a zygote which is alive, and so on. In regards to abortion, the fact that the fetus is a living human organism doesn't change my opinion that a woman should be able to terminate a pregnancy at any time. I put more value on the bodily autonomy of a post-pubescent human than the life of a pre-born human.
Thank you for your thoughtful response. I guess what I'm really looking to understand is when this life becomes a human life that would be immoral to terminate?
I don't think it is immoral to terminate human life in all cases. Assisted suicides, removing life support from terminal patients, abortions, and self defense situations are all moral instances of ending a human life, in my opinion.
Not OP, but I think when a person can survive on its own outside of the womb, then it would become immoral to terminate (notwithstanding NICU babies because you're trying to get them to that state of being). I carry this logic to people in a vegetative state as well and say that pulling the plug on them is also ok. So the moral litmus test for me basically boils down to, can it survive on its own?
When the human has a preference not to be terminated. It is not physically possible to have a preference without a functioning brain to have one in.
I am a strong proponent of the brain birth theory. Basically, it states that a human being is not formed till higher brain activity. As quoted by the JM Goldenring the original author of this idea: "The brain enables our body, our mind, our personality. The brain is the only unique and irreplaceable organ in the human body, as the orchestrator of all organ systems and the seat of personality. Thus, the presence or absence of brain life truly defines the presence or absence of human life in the medical sense. When viewed in this way, human life may be seen as a continuous spectrum between the onset of brain life in utero until the occurrence of brain death. “At any point, human tissue or organ systems may be present, but without the presence of a functional human brain, these do not constitute a 'human being', at least in a medical sense.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/4078859 Now at what point would we say the fetus has reached significant brain activity to be considered a human being so to say? Numerous Scientists have put it at around 7 to 9 months week as this when the fetus develops significant brain function that differentiates us from animals. http://articles.latimes.com/1990-03-19/local/me-476_1_brain-stem So basically based on this idea we can see that the fetus reaches the brain birth criteria to become a human being at around 7 to 9 months. Now if we look at Abortion Data we will find that abortions happening beyond 21 weeks represent less than 1.3% of abortions. I would wager that abortions happening in the 28-31 week range are literally non-existent and the abortions that do happen this far are almost always of the case where the mother's life is in danger, or they are medically necessary. https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/ss6410a1.htm http://reason.com/blog/2016/10/21/late-term-abortions-in-america-2016
Human life began between 0.2 and 1.8 million years ago, depending on how you feel about different hominids.
So we can agree that a life that is 1.8 million years old shouldn't be terminated, right?
When did we start talking about a life that is 1.8 million years old?
* Shrug emoji * Also, this. (For real, though, even though I know anti-abortion folks feel it is THE MOST IMPORTANT aspect to this debate, for us, this question is seriously always the most boring for me).
What questions do you find more interesting?
Almost anything that gets beyond those arguments that typically end in "well, I guess we'll have to agree to disagree, since there's no consensus here."  Pretty much every "where does life begin/when does personhood start" argument has both sides explaining why they feel what they feel, disagreeing with the other side, and walking away essentially the same, because feelings about personhood are largely a function of the value one places on religion, spirituality, certain developmental markers, and even a sort of anthropomorphizing of the fetus or an ineffable "gut feeling" that is more emotional and hard to describe. I really like discussing the politics and tactics of the movements, learning more about abortion, women's reproductive health as it relates to abortion access or lack thereof, helping pro-choicers and anti-abortion folks alike to make better arguments and not spread or repeat misinformation, and gathering information and sources to help people make up their own minds.
I'm totally with you on the misinformation thing. There are some really bad pro-life articles/posts that contain lies or just illogical arguments that really frustrate me. The repeating of misinformation is an issue. Thank you for trying to curb the repeating of this misinformation. I guess this question is big for us because we want to find common ground with you.
To be 100% honest, if the pro-life movement's goal is to stop pregnant women who do not want to remain so from having abortions, I don't think there is any common ground. If the movement includes as one of its goals to prevent unwanted/unintended pregnancy and/or provide assistance to women who would like to carry to term if they only had some help, then I do think there's room for common ground . . . but that's also pretty tough, considering how religiously-affiliated it is and how that religious component tends to disavow for moral reasons the most effective means we have in stopping pregnancies from happening in the first place.
I believe that life begins when the fetus is capable of surviving outside of the womb, which is generally around 24-28 weeks, but I believe in the brain birth theory as well and do not consider it a fully functioning human until 7-9 months.
You should look into the viability of a fetus debate that took place during Roe V Wade.
Thank you. I am a little familiar with that debate. I was just hoping to talk to some individuals and find out what he/she believes and why. Do you think viability is when human life begins?



And this is in a hugely Catholic Country. As Students For Life says: The tide is turning.
Let's hope we do not drown in it.
I don't think we will. The Social and Moral Development Index concentrates on moral issues and human rights, violence, public health, equality, tolerance, freedom, and effectiveness in climate change mitigation and environmentalism, and on some technological issues. A country scores higher for achieving well in those areas, and for sustaining that achievement in the long term. Those countries towards the top of this index can truly say to be setting good examples and leading humankind onwards into a bright, humane, and free future. The graph I linked shows clearly that social and moral development is at its highest in countries that are the least religious. As religiosity increases, each country suffers from more and more conflicts with human rights, more problems with a tolerance of minorities and religious freedom, and problems with gender equality. As we start embracing a secular society, things are shown to get better. Will we have problems? Of course. But we can confront them with a foot in reality, instead of a mind in the past.



Why are Kentucky and Tennessee mislabeled? Owensboro and Evansville are both less than 100 miles from Louisville where there is an abortion clinic....
Per Google Maps, from the generic "Owensboro, KY" to 136 W Market St, Louisville, KY 40202 where the EMW Women's Surgical Center is located, it is a minimum of 102 miles away, and potentially 110 miles away, depending on what route is taken. Similarly, if you mean Evansville, Indiana, Google Maps lists it as a minimum of 119 miles away or even 166 miles when you take the I-69 and IN-60 E instead of the I-64 E. I believe that Google marks its pins in the geographical center of a town, so when its close like this, depending on where in town they live, some people in Owensboro and Evansville will be within the 100-mile range, while other inhabitants would not be.  But technically speaking, it's accurate.
Sorry bout this. Just wanted to see how people would respond
I prefer to define myself as pro-abortion, because I think abortion should be actively encouraged in all cases of pregnancy as the safest treatment for that condition. Most people here simply want abortion to be legal, but not promoted, hence pro-choice.
Because prochoice is about allowing people to make decisions? Being prochoice doesn’t mean you’re for or against abortion. It allows women to make the decision for themselves since they will be impacted physically by being pregnant.
Lel
No, pro-life it is a paternalistic view of “I know better than you” which you show through this post by posting your definition of what pro-life is. Basically, you’re acting like you, an outsider, knows better than the pregnant woman for what is better for her and society. Basically, you’re anti-choice. If you are pro-life, you are for forcing women to be pregnant and making that choice for them. Pro-life is about deciding for someone. Determining that they have to be pregnant to deliver a baby into an already crowded world. No regards to how that baby will grow up or the circumstances it was created in. It is purely “you had sex, now you must be pregnant.” Pro-choice isn’t about whether abortion is viewed by the person who is pro-choicr is good, bad, evil, whatever. Pro-choice is purely allowing a woman to make their own choice regarding their bodies. Purest form. It is acknowledging that I do not know what will be the best choice for struggling mom of 3, the rape victim, the student working on her thesis, the woman who had a one nught stand, the waitress making minimum wage at Pizza Hut, the married woman who has two kids, etc. It is allowing them as a person to determine should they continue on with the pregnancy. Since in all honesty, I’m not an asshole who is going to pretend to know what is the best choice is for them. Especially in the US where our insurance system sucks, states are cutting back medicaid, daycare is expensive, maternity leave is unpaid and not automatic (you have to meet qualifying factors), etc.
Ok, well thanks for answering my questions
Elaborate on this for me. Are you saying that abortion is murder?
Yes
Originally the name was anti-abortion, but anti-abortion people thought that was negative and not self-flattering enough, so they called themselves pro-life. But everyone is pro-life in one way or another. If you came from another planet and someone said they were "pro-life", you'd be like "Okay..." and you would have no idea they had anything to do with abortion. Pro-choice is also vague and nondescript, because it came about as a reaction to "pro-life". It used to be "pro-abortion". Not everyone who is pro-choice is actually pro-abortion though, they just want others to have the choice. So then "pro-life" evolved into "anti-choice", as a way of casting anti-abortion folks in a more negative light, and also in an attempt to take back the framing of the debate.

Lots of people that are “pro life” are also pro death penalty. It’s anti choice Edit: your username fits you Very well.
Aw, I wish I could see what the comment was. In general though, people who are “pro-life” have a funny way of showing it. For example, some guy wanted Planned Parenthood to be defunded so schools could hire armed security guards? What? Take away funding for STI testing, cervical cancer screenings, birth control, etc? Makes no sensez Another example is not supporting free birth control including longterm options like an IUD and implant. Only thing shown to lower pregnancy rates besides maybe proper sex education. Not supporting maternity leave at all. Not supporting supportive services like medicaid, food stamps, paid maternity leave, housing, social services, paid daycare, schools, etc. A lot of pro-life people are weird. They seem more “forced pregnancy” than anything else. Fuck the baby when it is born. The mom shouldn’t have had sex. Why should we support the child? I know the Bible says that painful labor is woman’s punishment for original sin, but damn, not everyone is religious! Or follows a religion with fucked up messages:

What is the gender of the majority of people punished by the 8th amendment? Women. Every abortion is directly requested by a woman. Some of the physicians performing the procedure may be male, but the majority of "punishments" are directed BY LAW at females. What other laws in Ireland, or any other Western country, are specifically written to punish a specific gender? Women are capable of rape and molestation crimes. But only women have abortions. No law anywhere should target a specific gender for a "crime" only that gender is capable of committing. That is gender-specific discrimination, and something we expect to see in primitive cultures, not in a developed civilization in the West.
Transgender people exist and are legally recognized in Ireland. The law specifically targets people who have ovaries and a uterus, but that's it.
I made this comment in another thread, but I think it stands: I think it's pretty unrefutable that bans on abortion disproportionately hurt women, but the people proposing them don't see it as gendered, or rather more to the point, they understand it ends up being gendered because pregnancy is gendered by nature.
You're correct. I believe the "pro-life" crowd see exactly what they want to see, willingly blinding themselves to the fact that it's men who are making the laws that affect women's bodies. The day that federal laws are enacted forcing men who impregnate women who are not their legal wives to have permanent vasectomies, I'll consider changing my mind.
Yes. Every women has a right to an abortion and her fellow-citizens do not have the right to force her to do their bidding at gun-point.
Yes. The end.

From the article: A foetus in the early stages of development lacks the developed nervous system and brain to feel pain or even be aware of their surroundings. The neuroanatomical apparatus required for pain and sensation is not complete until about 26 weeks into pregnancy. As the upper limit worldwide for termination is 24 weeks, and the vast majority of pregnancies are terminated well before this (most in the first 9 weeks in the UK), the question of foetal pain is a complete red herring. This is reflected in the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists’s report on foetal pain, which concludes “... existing data suggests that cortical processing and therefore foetal perception of pain cannot occur before 24 weeks of gestation”.
I'm genuinely confused by the content of this article. I suppose it's the headline. Five "main" arguments according to... whom? David Grimes, a prochoice advocate? No serious prolife advocate would advance these arguments as their five main arguments. It's absurd to suppose that these are the main reasons to oppose abortion. Please note that I'm not even addressing the actual content of the author's rebuttal of these 5 "arguments." That's because, even if we were to completely grant that the author is right on all these points, the prolife position remains intact, because it isn't based on questions of whether or not the fetus feels pain before 26 weeks. These kind of arguments are supplementary or ancillary to the main line of argumentation for the prolife position. That would run, simply, that an unborn child is a living, human organism, and that there is no sound reason to deny fundamental rights to it.
That pro-life position at the end can also be upheld to defend the idea that nobody should ever be jailed, even if they did commit a crime. It doesn't work as-is, because society does recognize the need to deprive certain humans of their rights (when they cannot behave and kill others, for example). If putting in jail became an archaic practice say in 100 years, we would still seek to curb people's behaviors and rehabilitate them, which would mean depriving them of the right to move and physically act as they wish. The question of what is a human also arises, where an embryo still has less humanity than a fully-developed baby, who still has less humanity than a toddler, due to humanity not being merely a biological construct but also a characteristic of our minds and their contents. Otherwise we can ask pro-lifers to bring their embryos to work and put them to task. But we can't, why? Because the baby is not finished developing and is unable to do any tasks, much less survive on its own. It's in-your-face obvious. And that pro-life position also ignores the fact that even the Bible draws a line between humans and the rest of the animal kingdom: animals have no choice but to try to birth their young. Humans do have choice, we were either given (biblical) or evolved (scientific) the capacity to choose, God accepted the choice even though he "threw Adam and Eve out". Regarding that choice though? It's up to us which one to make. There is no objective argument as to why we should choose the potential of an embryo over an independent human in which society has already invested, with further potential to actualize. Finally, if their arguments are religious, one can always remind them God doesn't exist at all, for a lot of people.
One could attempt to do so, sure. It wouldn't be very good reasoning, but yes, one could argue that it's never ok to restrict someone's freedom of movement for any reason. The core application of the prolife argument is that it is never ok to deliberately and directly cause the death of an innocent human life, whether that human is unborn, infant, juvenile, adult, or senior. It doesn't pretend that there isn't a tension between different rights posed by the reality of the reproductive cycle of humans, because there is. But to deny that central point leads to all kinds of terrible conclusion, and there's no reason to allow it in the case of the unborn that wouldn't allow it in other cases, or that isn't an ad-hoc reason that simply assumes the point it's trying to demonstrate. I disagree that this question applies in the context of the abortion discussion. I'm not interested in a philosophical discussion of what constitutes a vague notion of "humanity." Rather, I'm restricting myself to an objective consideration of a scientifically defined set of criteria of what makes an organism a member of the human species. That's absurd on the face of it, and I don't know what relevance it has to the issue. Neither can we bring a newborn baby into work and put them to work, but that does not have an ounce of impact on whether that baby is a human being, or whether it's acceptable to deliberately end its life. I would be perfectly willing to discuss the religious implications or arguments around abortion if that was the discussion, but it's not. The prolife argument as I have outlined relies not one bit on religious dogma or argumentation, and it's equally accessible to the religious and nonreligious alike. The only non-empirical science relevant to the argument is the underlying moral claim that it is wrong/immoral to deliberately and directly take the life of an innocent human being, which is a stance that does not require religion or any particular belief system to hold.
That's kind of the point though; blankly stating "An embryo is human life, all humans have rights" is not very good reasoning either. Oversimplified statements like that usually hinge on them being sweeping on purpose, appearing too huge to challenge. It's not objectively true at its core, for example humans are the ones deciding that other humans have rights--therefore these rights can be redetermined at any time, for another example. But people making those simple statements don't expect to discuss the finer points. Except that they are also the ones determining that humans have a quality known as "innocence", when an embryo has no experience or state at all except existence. That lack of other states includes lack of "innocence" to speak of (and no guilt, either). Not really. Death has always been a part of life, and it's humanity's current tendency to abstract it and whisk it away into bubbles like funerals or the news is what's causing an issue. Babies used to die much more frequently than they do today in Western civilization--we gave ourselves the opportunity to keep them alive, and people see that as "good" because... they haven't thought much further than "life = good, death = bad". But there are plenty of cases where death may be preferable, and assisted suicide, suicide with dignity and euthanasia activists all have something to say on the matter. These are deaths of people who have a brain enough to make a choice as well, which can be considered far more tragic than the death of something with only part of a brain. Untrue. Just because one situation needs one type of response is never a good enough reason to not examine each case individually. This is why we have the justice system, for example; laws give us a framework of what is typically done, but we still need juries to determine guilt. I maintain that abortions are fundamentally different from any other type of murder, the only thing they share is termination of a life, but the reason why one is termed abortion and the other murder... matters, a lot. Just because you're not interested doesn't mean it's inapplicable. Ignoring the existence of sticking points doesn't make them go away. And that definition tends to show that humans are a species which evolved from animals which typically kill other species and their own on a regular basis for survival, with our biology having led us to commit murder on a very regular basis for millennia. Therefore, murder is okay.
That's not the extent of the argument. I'm deliberately not giving the full nuanced argument here, only a simple one-sentence summation of the central point. So I have no problem with the argument "An embryo is human life, all humans have rights, therefore abortion is wrong" being unconvincing, because that's not my argument. I've actually typically found that as a prolife advocate, I'm far more willing to engage in the finer points of the debate, and that it's the prochoice advocate who is the first to say things like "No one can know for sure either way and it's all just opinion, so we should just leave it up to choice." Please note that I have not thus far really broken down into the finer details of the argument in this comment thread, because the original point of my comment was to say that the headline's claim of the "main" arguments of prolife being dealt with was simply false. It wasn't to actually argue those points, only note their existence. That term is not being used in a subjective, emotional, or aesthetical sense, but rather an objective one. The unborn are quite literally and objectively "innocent," in that they have not of their own will or volition committed any sort of crime or offense towards another that would warrant any sort of reprisal or punishment. Indeed, as you are point out, they are categorically incapable of anything other than innocence. This is key, because the prolife position is not simply "It's wrong to kill a human," because there's an obvious distinction between, say, killing someone who's trying to kill you in self-defense or the state executing a duly convicted felon, and killing someone who has done nothing to warrant it. I'm not really sure how to address this section of your comment, or what real point you're trying to make with it. If we were discussing whether laws about murder should be repealed, or vehicle safety standards relaxed, would it be a particularly coherent argument for someone to say, "What's the big deal? People die all the time, people used to die of polio and other diseases all the time so why should we care how many die in car accidents?" I think that kind of reasoning falls apart and misses the point in so many different ways that it would probably have been better for me to ignore it rather than pursue the red herring. I think I'm on pretty safe ground here when I say that, yes, in general, and all other things being equal, life is good and death is bad, and we generally have an instinct to avoid the latter. I will also note that your further examples of things like assisted suicide at least involve someone who is choosing for themselves to die, rather than us deciding for someone else that can't defend themselves that they should die, as is the case with abortion. It's entirely applicable in this case, and I think it's unfair of you to categorize what I said in that way. I made a point, and your responses were, ostensibly, responding to what I was saying. The point of me saying that I'm not interested in that topic wasn't to say that I refuse to discuss it in any circumstance. Rather, you seemed to be bringing it up as if it was a response to a point that I was making. I was making the point that a philosophical discussion of humanity was irrelevant to the actual prolife argument that I was discussing.
Yes, because I was replying to the idea that "this is not what prolife people hang their logic on" to show that even if they don't, their thought patterns can still be deconstructed successfully such as what was done in the original article. If the logic you found arguments on is flawed and the article deals with that logic, it shows flaws, whether you believe it's irrelevant to your arguments or not. You saying your arguments are exempt doesn't make it the case. That article directly contradicts the idea that some prolife arguments can't be touched by addressing what really matters. Prolife people saying "look here instead" need to realize arguments based on their morals won't matter to those who don't subscribe to those morals.
What would your five reasons be ?
Not really a list of five separate reasons, but a chain of reasoning that begins with defining what, exactly, the unborn are. Stated simply, the unborn are living, human organisms. It's wrong to intentionally and directly end the life of innocent human beings, and there's no rationale that would justify abortion that wouldn't also apply to okaying the murder of born persons. Using birth or some point in time in gestation timeline is an arbitrary standard.
I agree, I've never heard a pro-life person push these as major arguments. They're supplementary to the "it's a human and humans have rights" argument. And if the person is religious, the "soul is infused at conception" argument.
Yeah, none of these issues had any impact at all on why I became pro life.
None of what issues? Edit: Sorry, I misread your comment, read it again and it makes total sense. Nevermind!
What about "your killing a baby"? I think that's number 1

Wow. What a compelling argument! You have me convinced!
I read through this guy's post history, he's hilarious. Says he believes gays are undermining religion yet he also says he watches lesbian porn everyday. Cognitive dissonance much?
There was one post where it seemed like he was trying to debate himself. Maybe he forgot to log into a different account.

prove it.
Yeah you're a troll


Those opportunities are: failed intrauterine pregnancies, intrauterine fetal demises, septic abortions (as in miscarriages that get infected), and medically-indicated terminations of pregnancy (y'know, the ones that a politician thinks are okay). They happen, and conscientious-objector residents can graduate on them, but not when every resident is competing for them. It's an objectively answerable question.




What a fucking gobshite.
Hardly shocking that a celibate man who is unlikely to be a victim of rape, or have the ability to have an abortion would not have a strong knowledge of what it is like...
His moronic opinion’s sure are strong though, I’ll give him that.
Rationally & logically, I see abortion as murder of life.  But I also dream of a community that values individual responsibility that frees females to make their own choices, coupled with the realistic event of a community being able to come together and agree on the best choice for the community.
Ok. What is the point of this post? Do you want people to discuss your opinions? Do you want people to change your opinions? Did you just want to post to post? I’m willing to discuss your opinion and try to change it (specifically murder point) but not really sure what direction you’re trying to go with this thread.
Intentionally general, because I'm open to anything.  Where do you want to take it?
It’s not murder. Murder is a legal definition. Not to mention life itself is a vague term. We kill animals for food. They are alive. They are far more independent than fetuses and far more developed.
Animals are not humans and sadly do not have the same rights as we enjoy. A zygote or embryo is genetically a human organism.
Once again, genetics isn’t the key factor. We take into account brain function otherwise we would never be able to get as many organs as we do.
You make that distinction. Not everyone does. Do you support abortion after brain activity develops?
It depends on the circumstances. Most people who don’t make that distinction base it in religious beliefs. Which would be unethical to force on another person who shares different beliefs or a lack of belief in a deity.
I'm not religious.
Too bad you can’t use religion as a cop out for forcing women to be pregnant. Not sure if that is scarier or sadder you’re not religious... Edit: this isn’t the neutral debate forum so yes, I am suggesting belief in being against abortion is a character flaw.
That's cool. You can think what ever you want about me, it's not going to change my opinions on this matter. Personally I think your avid justification of destroying innocent people's bodies for the simple convenience of another's is a character flaw. But that's not really constructive is it?

Agreeing with u/K1gC, murder by definition is an unlawful killing and carries a moral connotation, so it is not really the most appropriate term. It's okay to view abortion as a killing, or an ending of a life. But if you are pro-choice then you understand it is a justified killing, as is any self-defense killing. It is justified to kill something that is threatening your freedom or threatening your life in any way.
Legally you are only allowed to kill in self-defense if you believe your life is in imediate danger. For instance if you shoot someone in the back while they are in your house and you don't make them aware that you are there and armed and want them out, then that would not be considered "self-defense" and you could be charged with homicide.  Since the vast majority of pregnancies do not end in death for the mother the abortion as a "self-defense" logic is flawed (unless it is known that the pregancy will kill the mother).
I believe you are allowed to kill someone if you perceive a threat, even if it isn't there. Someone could enter your home by accident who is intellectually disabled, or has dementia, and they mean no harm, but you would perceive anyone who enters your home as a potential threat to you because they have no right to enter your home and you don't know what their intentions are. Abortion is always 14 times safer than pregnancy. Many women die from pregnancy even though there wasn't a known risk factor or any warning. A complication can arise suddenly and they bleed out before there's any chance to save them. If every death from childbirth could be saved with an abortion, we wouldn't have such a high maternal mortality rate because most people and most doctors would choose their own life. There is always a risk carrying to term that is prevented from abortion. And yes, many women happily take on that risk because they want a child and perceive the risk as low. But we cannot ask women that don't want a child to take on that risk if they don't want to.
Self defense in the US is actually a very convoluted issue.  But there does need to be reasonable fear of harm for it to be justified by a court as true self-defense.
Gun laws vary by state. In some states, you don’t have to give them a warning if they are in your house unlawfully.
This still isn't the same as abortion. A fetus is not intending to do harm to the mother. Abortion can not be justified as a "self-defense killing" unless there is a reasonable possibility of death to the mother.
You do realize you’re the one limiting self-defense to a specific scenario which it is not or is only applicable in certain states.
That's fair. I don't really care about "law" anyway.  Just because something is written as a law doesn't mean it should be the basis of our morals.  What would your definition of "self-defense" be?
A flexible idea that depends on unique circumstances.
When would killing not be justifiable to you?


I like it, having the FAQs regarding cost and the procedure itself  right up front and accessible is a great idea. But the accuracy is questionable because there are at least 4 Planned Parenthood locations in my city, yet the nearest provider was shown to be 150 miles away based on my zip code. Is that something that will be addressed as development continues?
Yes! Growing our database of clinics is the main thing we're focused on right now. We're currently listing ~80% of Abortion Care Network clinics and ~50% of National Abortion Federation clinics - both networks are just the tip of the iceberg, though. Adding clinic info is something we're actively looking for help with. If you're interested in contributing (even just your local clinics*) let us know here: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScmlQ5C2Fsvw8Bfq8gYjUKqwfaqnLnJ3rMwE9yp2KojIG4iSw/viewform *One thing to note about planned parenthood is not all locations offer abortions.

Well soon of a birch.  Noxious lawsuits from cheaters.  What the hell.

How is this even a question?...

Let's give that douche's mother a retroactive abortion.

“Abortion is systemic racism” Sorry, what?
Read the article. They provide a fact-filled refutation to common pro-life slogans.

I don't understand how these numbskulls don't understand that abortion is a necessary form of population control.  They bitch and bitch about poor people but demand that poor people have children that they can't afford, and then bitch again when those families require resources to care for their kids.  It's absolute lunacy.
Obviously poor people just shouldn't be having sex!
The worst thing is that there are people on our world who legitimately believe this. For when you hate both women /and/ poor people.
Yeah and those "poor" people shouldn't have refrigerators either!
Hey, just so you know it's kinda fucked up to describe abortion in those terms. There's a long and ongoing history of sterilization abuse, coerced abortions, etc in the name of population control which is actually just a guise to get rid of "undesirable" groups like poor people, ethnic minorities, disabled, etc. Yes, everyone should have access to abortion but also everyone should have access to resources to have a family. overconsumption, not overpopulation is to blame for stuff like destroying our planet. Not that that's what you were saying, I wanna take the time to explain to anyone in this sub the problematic but seemingly harmless ways we talk about abortion, contraception, etc because not all of it is great. And most mainstream feminist, pro choice activism has missed that. (Didn't mean for this to be some longass rant, hope you see where I'm coming from)
You do understand the problems that would arise if every single child that could be born was born, right?  I don't think one can rationally think I was talking about ethnic cleansing.  That's a pretty large hop on your jump to conclusions mat.
Obviously yes, thanks for the condescension. But it's also important to be aware of how our language perpetuates certain narratives that are still relevant today if we are gonna make the argument that birth control is a right. For too many populations, birth control has been  and continues to be forced upon them. Again, not saying you are pushing for ethnic cleansing, I'm saying that if you do a little reading, you'll know that there is a dirty history of feminist pro-birth control rhetoric justifying horrific violations of rights. And I'm saying that too many people supposedly in support of reproductive rights (which I'm assuming you are because you're here, although I could be wrong) aren't aware of this history and end up alienating people who do remember this history and have suffered under it from the movement. I'm pushing back because we're in a pro-choice sub and I'm tired of unfortunate and loaded word choice going unchecked.
Being pro-choice goes both ways.
Bleep-bloop, I'm a bot. This comment was inspired by xkcd#37

It's not murder because it's individuals choosing to protect their own immediate bodies from unwanted threat and harm. Aka justified homicide. Removing that right only ensures that more people are born into an already over-burdened system.
Death penalty for religious delusion would be a good deterrent too.
I'd vote for ya. 🤟😀
Don't sink to their level.
I'd rather be dead than pregnant.
So screw health care, assistance, food stamps, etc but let’s force women to have babies?
Just like it's prevented murder?
The death penalty does not deter criminals Making abortion illegal doesn't prevent abortions.

How? Like HOW? Everything about this screams projection. Like he's gonna get caught with a 12 year old boy someday. Like hes talking about himself. Euthanasia is a good thing. But how do you get from abortion to political assassination? I....whut.
He forgot to mention that the sky will fall and the world will explode.
Can you cope



I think I have a fairly unique and bullet-proof argument (don't we all, lol) that the pro-life view only makes sense from a purely religious perspective. Do you guys know where I would go to debate this? r/debateabortion doesn't seem all that active. Thanks!
/r/abortiondebate
Thanks! Geez, not sure why Google didn't bring that one up.
It's pretty new.
Well, I don’t necessarily know the best specific spot to go, but I would certainly love to hear your argument! (Pro-lifer here)
Ok, I posted it but it was removed because I don't have enough karma or something (new account.) But here it is: The pro-life view, in which abortion is never permissible or only permissible in order to save the pregnant woman’s life, only makes sense given the premise that all fetuses have unique souls. If indeed fetuses had souls, I’d agree that it would make killing that fetus a grave moral wrong against God. In the secular view, a fetus does not have a soul and is therefore valued for its potential to become a born person. When a woman mourns a miscarriage, she mourns the loss of her hopes and dreams for that child. We wouldn't value a fetus if there was no possibility of the fetus becoming a baby one could interact and care for. Because all fetuses have the same potential, all fetuses are equally valuable. For example, assume a woman plans to have one child only. If she aborts a fetus and carries out a future pregnancy instead, the result is effectively the same as if she carried out the first pregnancy and aborted the latter one. Overall, the same amount of potential is realized as originally planned. This shows that while fetuses are valued as a whole, individual fetuses are not necessarily valued. In other words, when a fetus is aborted, all that is lost is potential, which can be realized through another pregnancy instead. The only valid secular anti-abortion argument is that of concern for the suffering of the fetus during an abortion, something that can be eliminated by aborting before the fetus has the ability to feel pain, or otherwise using anaesthetic. Note that the while human life from a secular and religious viewpoint is valuable and killing is generally wrong, we do make exceptions when we believe there is justification. For example, we make exceptions for taking life in cases of self-defence (regardless of whether the attacker is innocent or otherwise), war (including civilian casualties), capital punishment, and assisted suicide for the terminally ill. Therefore we can conclude that human life is not sacred to the extent that it is always wrong to kill, which opens the door to justification for abortion. But what about the fetus’ point of view and right to life? A fetus is not sentient enough to contemplate and desire its own future, and therefore there is no reason the right to life principle should apply to it. If I was aborted as a fetus, I would not be around to be sad about it and no harm would have been done in any practical sense. In addition, there is no inherent right to life for every living thing. Unless you’re a vegetarian, you don’t acknowledge an animal’s inherent right to life. Humans have invented the concept of right to life because we can contemplate the death of ourselves and loved ones. We obviously want to prevent those deaths so we created a universally acknowledged “right to life” to reduce the probability of being murdered or losing a loved one. Violating the right to life principle in the case of a fetus does not endanger the lives of any born sentient human, nor does it cause chaos and anarchy in society. It may seem a cold and calculating to speak of life in this unemotional manner, but when one considers the possible range of suffering and harm to women resulting from unwanted pregnancies, including negative health impacts or death, increased likelihood of poverty, decreased likelihood of escaping a violent relationship due to financial dependance on the father, and much more, it is clear that giving women the choice to abort is the most compassionate view. One last note: Life is precious because you must have life in order to experience well-being. But, that implies that well-being is actually the greater good (life is only the prerequisite). Therefore, if well-being is more valuable than life/existence, then it follows that prioritizing a sentient woman’s well-being over the existence of her fetus is acceptable.
What if they don’t ever want to have children but don’t want to have an invasive procedure? Is it wrrong if they never intend to bring the potential to life?
I'm sorry, I don't understand the question. Can you rephrase?
You’re trying to appeal to potential life and specifically mention that the womqn could fulfill that potential by having another pregnancy.
OK, gotcha. I think it was the invasive procedure thing that confused me. My point there was just to show that one fetus' potential is indistinguishable from anothers. In a society where birth rates are stable, it doesn't matter if one woman doesn't fulfill the potential of a fetus, because there are other women in society who will. I could change my example and say that between 2 women, they agree to have 1 baby. Then they both get pregnant so one has an abortion. (Weird example, I know) It would be the same result as if only the 1 woman got pregnant and had the baby. The point is, society values and needs babies and children and humans, and we want at least some fetuses to actualize their potential, but that doesn't mean ALL fetuses must.
Have you considered that (some) pro-life people hold the potential of a fetus as equal to the potential of any other aged human? On the subject of sentience, that's another debatable aspect.. how can you prove the fetus does not know it is alive and doesn't desire to continue living? The argument over souls is a pretty pointless one, as neither sides can actually prove what a soul is, if it even exists or not.
Yes, but I would ask them why they do that. And if it is potential that gives the fetus the right to life, what if you knew for certain the fetus had some disease where it would suffer excruciating pain it's whole life and then die when it was a year old? I would say this fetus does not have a potential for a valuable future. Would the pro-choice person still be against abortion in this case, and with what justification? I think we are far enough advanced in science to make an educated guess. If anything, fetuses might desire to live in the same way an animal desires to live. Does that make an animal's life sacred?
Hi, I'm pro life and non religious! Personally, I tend to save my argument of a fetus's potential for life as a last resort when discussing abortion. Such as if no common ground can be found when discussing when "life" begins and when "personhood" begins. It's like, certainly we can agree that there is at least potential. As for souls, I don't believe in souls and I don't factor that into my reasoning at all.  I believe that if a being has its own unique human dna, it's a human person, everything beyond that is just growth. All other markers for declaring it is a life or not is relatively arbitrary, and would never apply to an adult human (who I believe it should have equal rights to). No heart beat? -people live with pace makers and are still people No sentience or awareness?  -people asleep or in comas are still people Relatively little brain function? -people with disabilities are still people Viability outside of womb? -many people arent viable without respirators or other machinery, they are still people. So if a fetus is a human person, it is wrong to kill him or her without proper reasoning, such as to save the mother (self defense). Also I often offer the compromise of conceding abortion due to rape. It goes against my beliefs, but it's only five percent or less of all abortions. So I tend to try to stick to the main reasons people get abortions, convenience and finances. Anyway, I recommend posting your arguments on r/prolife if you haven't yet! I hope they are kind and respectful to you, though I'm sure there's plenty of wackos. If you've never been involved in much abortion debates, just realize it can get very emotional very easily, regardless of what side you're talking to. So don't let the extreme ones taint your view of the whole side!  :)
Here's a sneak peek of /r/prolife using the top posts of the year! #1: Keep your Philosophy off my biology | 39 comments#2: Planned Parenthood Tweet Answered Brutally | 22 comments#3: Daughter at 18 weeks and 40+7 weeks, making the same pose | 8 comments I'm a bot, beep boop | Downvote to remove | Contact ^^me | ^^Info | ^^Opt-out
Hey, thanks for your post. I believe that any view of abortion becomes problematic in some unavoidable way. My justification for abortion can make it difficult to justify why killing an unwanted infant is always wrong. However, if you go the "everyone has the right to life" route, I find you have to then say even animals have the right to life and therefore eating meat or animal products is wrong. Are you a vegan?
Well, when my line of reasoning comes up for you in the future (which it will because it's not very original), and you want your opinions to become less problematic, you could argue that personhood is harder to lose than it is to gain. A book with a page torn out if it is still a book, but a single blank piece of paper needs much more to become a book. That being said, I still believe what I believe, that just rattles around in my head sometimes. I think the best way to discuss this kind of stuff is to forget about trying to change peoples minds, and just be honest about the flaws in our own arguments. And to answer your question, no I'm not a vegan. I'm saying that all Humans have a right to life, I don't include all animals because they aren't humans. :P However I do find it strange when vegetarians and vegans are pro choice. I'm a democrat and I also find it weird that other democrats are pro choice. Like, if you're against killing animals, against the death penalty, and against wars, shouldn't more of those people be supporting pro life? It just seems like people picked sides in a strange way. I used to be pro choice until I really challenged myself.
Have you examined the exact reason why you think only humans have the right to life, and not animals? Would you mind sharing?
To be honest, I haven't thought much of it. But I think the acceptance of killing animals comes from the fact that until recently it was necessary for human life. And that preserving one's own species over another is natural and a part of evolution. But on the surface, it's just because I like the taste of it, so I try not to think about it too much. Haha But I will try and give it some more thought! But so are you implying that I shouldn't be Pro-Life unless I would defend all life, not just human? Because that seems a bit flimsy. If you were against rape, could I call you a hypocrite for not trying to stop all animal on animal rape? Haha
But we don't need to eat meat these days to survive. Saying that something is part of our instincts does not mean it is moral. We have other evolutionary instincts that we suppress in modern society because they aren't considered moral.  (ex. married men don't sleep with as many women as possible to increase their chances of reproducing) My question is, why do all humans have the right to life and not animals in your opinion? I just want your reasoning for not being as concerned about the life of animals as you are about fetuses. Under the pro-life worldview, yes, if I was against human rape I should be against animal rape. But, because I have a different moral system, where I can justify logically why human rules don't apply to animals, I am not a hypocrite for not caring about animal rape.

I’m curious why you are subbed here. It doesn’t make a lot of sense to me. I’m not subbed to any “pro life” subs.
I sub to r/Catholicism and r/prolife and other subs that intellectually opposed to my views. It's good to remain intellectually honest and be challenged.
I'm pro life and I sub here as well. I try to avoid getting caught up in echo chambers. It's always good to take in different points of view!
I subscribed to pro life for a while but they banned me for an unexplained reason (no rule breaking was had, I think they just got fed up of me replying). So lets welcome this person here. I'm welcome to any and all.
Because I’m open to hearing arguments from opposing viewpoints. I don’t want to stay in my own little bubble and constantly reaffirm my own beliefs while ignoring others.
My arguments for the support of abortion are the following: Abortions are good for society because they allow unfit parents to not raise unfit kids...unfit kids are going to end up being degenerates,junkies,flooding into criminality and making our society more shitty. If you don't believe in that,simply the fact that women are going to seek abortions out,is a good reason to keep them legal...back-alley illegal abortions are no joke,do you want the woman alive,or do you want her dead? P.S Notice that i never brought any body-autonomy argument...since those are a crock of shit...i support abortion due to realism and semantics...you shall do the same.
A lot of women who get abortions are actually already mothers. Knowing this, we know that some of these women are the types of people you would deem “unfit.” What do you think should be done if these “unfit” mothers already have children? Should those children be killed? I would hope you would say no. I simply apply that logic to the unborn as well, because, after all, they are living human beings and we need to find solutions to these problems that don’t include killing them. I understand that women will always seek abortions, regardless of legality. But I still don’t think that’s a good reason to keep it legal. Remember that I oppose illegal abortion too. Everything that is illegal is still being done somewhere in one way or another; that doesn’t mean we should legalize them so people “do it safely.” Let’s take hard drugs as an example. Should the government set up centers to inject people with clean needles so they avoid infections and what not? After all, if it’s illegal, they will do it anyway, but in a more dangerous manner. It may sound like a silly analogy, but I’m just trying to say that we don’t make things legal or illegal based on factors like that. Don’t you think we should focus on getting women other options so they don’t have to resort to getting abortions, especially dangerously?
Women have abortions for a reason...the majority of them do it,either because they cannot take care of the kid,or because they have no money,or they're in abusive relationships,or for health reasons...the fact that they're already in relationships is irrelevant...they're poor married couples you know,or if the kid has severe foetal defects...plenty of married couples struggle with money,or are about to divorce...there are plenty of distinct situations of why women seek out abortions while in relationships...no woman seeks out abortions if she is an happy stable relationship. The difference between drugs and abortions,is that people DO NOT need drugs to survive...whereas people DO NEED abortions...people are going to have sex and they're going to seek out abortions...sex is a need...people do not need drugs to survive...you cannot compare drugs to abortions....we already have safe-injection sites for junkies,or by giving them clean needles,to avoid hiv and hep c transmission...are you against those also?...prohibition in prostitution didn't work...women still were trafficked...i am against legalization,but i fully support decriminalization(see the nordic model of prostitution)...making things illegal doesn't work...we need to focus on rehabilitation and NOT prohibition. And to answer your last question,yes i fully support sex-ed,free contraceptives,plan-b etc...and improving the adoption and foster care system...we should focus on the welfare state,maternity leaves,universal basic income etc...to reverse income inequality and to reduce the abortion rates.
I wasn’t at all talking about relationships. You were talking about unfit women, so I was building off that. I was just saying if an “unfit” mother already has children, it’s obvious that killing the children isn’t the answer. You said one thing that I just strongly disagree with. Sex is not a need. People can and do live without sex all the time. And most people actually don’t need abortions to survive. There are cases like ectopic pregnancy and other life threatening situations where I do not oppose medical treatment to save the mother’s life. What I do oppose though, is elective abortion. Elective abortion is quite literally abortion that is not immediately necessary.

Nice to see Cork moving in a progressive direction, good on ya.
Love it ! You just need a TFMR one , maybe if you donate they might send you one https://tfmrdc.causevox.com/
Got one in the Cork Together for Yes Office today!
Ugh. So I looked up volunteer activities to a city that I may be moving to. One is a CPC. Half tempted to apply to volunteer so I could see actually how it works...I’ve heard stories of prolifers trying to work at PP so they couldn’t be fired due to their beliefs and waste PP’s money (this was 10 years ago when it was a hot topic and Plan B)
why waste time? we know how they work. They convince parents that God/Jesus/etc wants them to raise their babies and has a plan for them. They promise the world as far as supplies and support, but they generally have shitty follow through. Find a pro-choice organization to volunteer with, or at least a human rights/social justice oriented thing. Infiltration never really works the way we dream it would.
Hey, sure!  Go undercover.  Take notes.  Look up the laws in your state for surreptitious recording (some states are two-party consent for recordings).  Carefully read anything they ask you to sign.




Pro-Choicers are the real Pro-Lifers!


I attended this on Saturday, interestingly amongst the pro lifers where are few members of the far right (English Defence Leaque) [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/English_Defence_League] No idea that the far right was interested in prohibiting abortion. I assume they just don't want white women to have them.


Not per capita, to be clear.  I'm sure most people polled were Christian.
So in a country where the majority of women are Christian, a study finds that the majority of abortions are performed on Christians. What an idiotic and misleading article. Slide 32 of the study presentation, which lists religious preferences of the women seems to me to match pretty well with the general population.
It does- which goes to show that being religious doesn't mean you are any less likely to get an abortion when you're in a difficult situation. Christians are the biggest hypocrites in the world.
It means that you can't generalize Christian = pro-life or atheist = pro-choice for that matter. But go ahead and do that anyway, you'll sound smart. Not.
No group is 100% one thing or another but you can certainly generalize- especially in this case because Christians are more likely to be anti-abortion and anti women's health care than any other group. Plus your comment has nothing to do with the article or what I said- Christians might spew their superiority bullshit but they don't actually live it- they just pretend to do so because it makes them feel like they're more important than they actually are. They're hypocrites about abortion and a million other things. But keep projecting about "sounding smart." I'm sure all that denial helps when you don't actually have an argument.
Oh yes, I'm the one projecting. Like when I wrote...?
How is that projecting? Non-religious people don't claim to be morally superior or insist we're special chosen ones like religious people do. We live and let live. Religious fundies try and shove their nonsense down everyone else's throats.

"...consenting adults need to also consider the repercussions of the sexual relationship that they’re gonna have, which is a child.” So an innocent child is also a "repercussion". A child is a punishment. What a lovely concept for the child: "I am the punishment my mommy must undergo for having sex. No wonder Mommy is always angry at me." I wonder what this Texas Republican's childhood was like, and if his mother considered him a "punishment" and a "repercussion". Perhaps she did, which explains why he believes the way he does.
he is just mad because no woman would willingly have sex with him.

I agree with you on abortion (look at my username), but this is not a good argument.
You're a fairly active contributer on this sub, so I'm aware. But explain a bit.
Arguing about the heart buys into the anti-Choice movement's framing of the debate. We are not arguing about the development of the heart. The sole criteria should be the development of the brain.
The heart is a muscle used for transporting nutrients around the body. Not the romanticized organ of love it’s portrayed as in art. Basing a law off that is borderline retarded.
I am just wondering, what makes the heart beat before the brain develops? I'm not  trying to be combative, I'm just genuinely curious.
They have their own electrical activity that isn’t dependent on the brain. Brain dead people’s hearts will still beat independently.
According to this site: https://community.babycenter.com/post/a22527439/what_causes_the_first_heartbeat_in_an_embryo It's the DNA in the heart cells themselves.
It’s a bit more complex than that. Wikipedia has a decent article on iy https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cardiac_muscle_cell
Cardiac muscle cell Cardiac muscle cells or cardiomyocytes (also known as myocardiocytes or cardiac myocytes) are the muscle cells (myocytes) that make up the cardiac muscle (heart muscle). Each myocardial cell contains myofibrils, which are specialized organelles consisting of long chains of sarcomeres, the fundamental contractile units of muscle cells. Cardiomyocytes show striations similar to those on skeletal muscle cells. Unlike multinucleated skeletal cells, the majority of cardiomyocytes contain only one nucleus, although they may have as many as four. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cardiac_muscle_cell HelperBot v1.1 /r/HelperBot_ I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 178784
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cardiac_muscle_cell It is also why the heart transplants still beat and only a smaller number needs pacemakers implanted. There is back up pacemakers if the SA node is damaged.
Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cardiac_muscle_cell HelperBot v1.1 /r/HelperBot_ I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 178785
Cringey shit posting that should be below the standards of being a mod, I know. But this is just to illustrate why putting unscientific and illogical lines at conception, fertilization or heartbeat in regards to abortion bans aren't coherent with the medical reality of today.
Interesting article I wonder how the patient is doing now .

This is so unbelievably detrimental to women's rights. I don't plan on having any more kids. I've been pregnant twice and I have two beautiful children, including a daughter. If I got unexpectedly pregnant, I would likely give birth to the baby. But what about my CHOICE? What about my daughter's CHOICE in the future? Our choice to have control over our own bodies? This is so, so upsetting.
Planned Parenthood is suing. A federal court will strike this down. Kim Reynolds is a dangerous right-wing radical. The Iowa Democrats must defeat her and the Iowa GOP cronies in the state legislature. r/BlueMidterm2018
Half of the babies born into Iowa currently are Medicaid-eligible. Way to go, Kim, keeping the cycle of poverty going
Terrible blow to the freedoms of Iowans.
backstreet abortions so hot right now
Time to send a donation to Planned Parenthood. The Iowa goobernator needs to be defeated ASAP!
Who can I donate to in order to help fight against this bullshit?
Looks like primary is upcoming on June 5, and after that you can throw your money at someone to beat Reynolds. We should keep an eye out for this after June 5. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iowa_gubernatorial_election,_2018 (Sorry, on mobile browser—can’t embed links.)
Iowa gubernatorial election, 2018 The 2018 Iowa gubernatorial election will take place on November 6, 2018, to elect the Governor of Iowa. Incumbent Republican Governor Kim Reynolds is running for election to a full term. Primary elections will be held on June 5, 2018. Then-Governor Terry Branstad had said in 2015 that he was not likely to run for another term but did not definitively rule it out. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
Sniff Sniff Do I smell a lawsuit brewing?
Something. Needs. To. Be. Done. About. This.
Here are 9 paywall-free sources covering this story! https://nofee.news/2jQVUe6
wow, these comments are a circlejerk
In what way?
"This is terrible!!1!"
Well, it is.
1! = 1

FWIW, my critical response. The author explains his position well enough that I can understand it, but I think it would be unconvincing to pro-lifers. The author begins by assuming a premise that most pro-lifers do not accept. It sounds like the author is saying: the initial premise is not practical enough to apply directly, so we must decide human value democratically. That is a position even many pro-choicers would have trouble accepting. In my opinion it is a weak position because an easy rebuttal is to point out historical contexts in which the majority opinion was in favor of a moral wrong (e.g. slavery). Speak of the devil. That is uncharitable and bad form. The author opens himself to accusations of ad hominem.
Brain development or consciousness are vague and useless measures of whether a human being is a "person". The author says so right in his argument. What is "significant brain development"? The three main structures of the brain are already forming by the sixth gestational week in pregnancy. That's significant. So is a coma patient a "person"?  Seems to me the answer to that question depends on whether the coma patient has a chance of recovery. If a patient has a high chance of recovery, society still considers that patient a person.  If the patient becomes brain dead, there are those who argue the patient is no longer a person anyway. This implies that the personhood of the coma patient rests on their future ability to have full consciousness. The same can be said of the zygote. As the author acknowledges, both the coma patient and the zygote are human; neither have consciousness. Overall, a weak article which isn't going the change the minds of any reasonable pro-lifer.
This is correct. If someone has a chance of recovery, they're still in their brain, and the brain may or may not heal. If someone is brain-dead, they have suffered information-theoretic death. They don't exist anymore, all that's left is the body, and the dead brain. It relies on the person being in (edit: typo) present in the brain. A comatose (but recoverable) person is unconscious, in a brain that may or may not recover. On the other hand, a brain-dead body doesn't have any person inside - like a house where nobody lives. The necessary insight here is that people aren't identical to organisms, but to the software running on the brain. The zygote doesn't have any person inside (no software with the properties of a person), so it has no moral value. You're pro-choice, so I'm only writing this in case a pro-lifer passes by. Sorry, just realized you didn't call yourself pro-choice.
Information-theoretic death Information-theoretic death is the scrambling of information within a brain to such an extent that recovery of the original person becomes theoretically impossible. Information-theoretic death is an attempt to define death in a way that is permanent and independent of any future medical advances, no matter how distant or improbable that may be. Because detailed reading or restoration of information-storing brain structures is well beyond current technology, it is generally not of practical importance in "mainstream medicine",  though it is of great importance in cryonics, where consideration of future technology is important. Ralph Merkle defined information-theoretic death as follows: A person is dead according to the information theoretic criterion if their memories, personality, hopes, dreams, etc. Computational theory of mind In philosophy, the computational theory of mind (CTM) refers to a family of views that hold that the human mind is an information processing system and that cognition and consciousness together are a form of computation. Warren McCulloch and Walter Pitts (1943) were the first to suggest that neural activity is computational. They argued that neural computations explain cognition. The theory was proposed in its modern form by Hilary Putnam in 1961, and developed by the MIT philosopher and cognitive scientist Jerry Fodor (who was Putnam's PhD student) in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
It seems the author holds that personhood also rests on past ability to have full consciousness.
What does that even mean? Do you really believe a newborn baby has "full consciousness" compared to an adult?
I didn't say what I believe. I said that the author probably believes that personhood requires past consciousness as well as potential future consciousness. From this premise he could assert that a human in a coma is a person while a fertilized egg is not.
How is a newborn a person then? What present, and especially past consciousness does a one day old baby have? Is it permissible to kill them?
A newborn is not a person. It's not permissible to kill them because at that point it's no longer self defense. Personhood isn't necessary for legal protections, there are plenty of animals it's not legal to kill.
If I understand the author correctly, he says that because consciousness is difficult to determine between the extremes of a fertilized egg and a laughing child, we need to collectively come to a decision regarding the "cutoff" point at which we are no longer allowed to end its life. As I said in my critique, I think this position of deciding ethical principles democratically is philosophically weak and, in my experience, unpopular with both pro-lifers and pro-choicers.

Thank you! We need more people like you! All the links they cited are literally from pro-life organizations with no medical authority or evidence. We need to debunk these myths as much as we can.
LPT: when writing a number less than 1 in decimal form, put in a leading zero ("0.6") to avoid confusion.  Also makes it clear that 0.6<8.8. (I like what you are doing.  This is just a habit from all the classes we get on reducing medical errors.)
Scaring of the uterine lining? It gets so scared!!
Lol, because spreading lies, and shaming and isolating people is totally helping all the psychological side effects listed
For the other side of the card: YSK about the Turnaway Study, which over a 5-year period observed close to 1,000 women who sought an abortion. It concluded that anti-abortion policies that claim to protect women's mental health are unwarranted, and -- in fact -- "being denied an abortion may be associated with greater risk of initially experiencing adverse psychological outcomes." Here's a Time write-up on it. This Bustle write-up explains it well and in fewer words.
I would like to see another card next to it with 1,000 common medical and psychological side effects of childbirth. It may be more of a book.





Here is a cached version of the Daily Mail content OP are linking to. This cached version of the webpage doesn't register as a page view, and also doesn't give the Daily Mail advertising revenue. There are 20 images in this article. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Why? The Daily Mail is known for holding controversial opinions within its articles which promotes hate. The outlet also is known for being highly biased and also publishing false and misleading articles. I'm a bot! This comment was posted automatically. Feedback? Something wrong? Send me a PM.
Good bot
Thank you, Hkfsdbmllp, for voting on Daily_Hate_Mail_Bot. This bot wants to find the best and worst bots on Reddit. You can view results here. Even if I don't reply to your comment, I'm still listening for votes. Check the webpage to see if your vote registered!

Gonna be real interesting if the GOP manages to overturn Roe v Wade. I would predict massive civil disobedience, where citizens, healthcare providers and even some law enforcement refuse to acknowledge the legitimacy of antichoice legislation.
It's never going to happen. The GOP would be out a wedge issue to rally their base around. They need Roe v Wade to stay the law of the land in order to secure votes.
Wouldn't they move to another women's issue?
Bingo.
It is hard for me to imagine that healthcare provider would risk losing their source of income with the cost of college loans now a days.
Then you clearly aren't aware of the things that happen.
I think you’re a bit out of touch and idealizing a system where people will want to risk losing their source of income by providing abortions in a system where everything can be googled. Maybe some will but majority will close up shop instead of risk losing their license. If someone gets an abortion they will provide assistance but I don’t seem them providing them illegally.
How many abortion providers do you know?
Two. We only have one clinic now in the immediate area due to changes in legislation.
I never said a majority. Your comment didn't day a majority. It didn't specify a number. Now you are trying to change that. Not surprised.
Um... scratches head what? Maybe you should reread the thread next time. I get that my reply only shows your reply and not the initial post you replied to on the mobile version but you should try to reread the conversation next time to refresh your memory. I clearly was referring to a hypothetical provider. Sure there will be some that may choose to provide illegal services and risk the fines and loose a career they worked years to get. I did forget “a” in my initial comment but clearly I wasn’t specifying a specific abortion provider or all abortion providers. I mean, it would be like saying “it is hard for me to imagine a high school student shooting up their school.” Yeah, it happens but the majority of high school students do not shoot up their shool. For example, Texas passed TRAP laws which included frustrating rules meant to shut down abortion clinics. The number of clinics decreased from 41 to 22 in 2013. I really do believe that you are idealizing a system where you believe that abortion clinics will move underground instead of closing up (which I am taking “civil disobedience ... refuse to acknowledge the legitmacy of antichoice legislation” to mean).
Maybe you shouldn't get so offended for someone replaying to your indivdual comment.  You are putting words in my mouth. I never said all of what you were posting. My comment is simple: doctors break the law. You added things I never said.
I’m telling you the truth... read before you comment. You seem to be idealizing healthcare providers into being a noble cause if you think a majority won’t close up shop to protect their livelihoods.
I thought the trend was that younger people are increasingly less pro-choice?  Maybe not when compared to old people, but when compared to younger people a decade ago.
No I think they are becoming slightly more prochoice, they tend to be less religious which correlates

Repeal the 8th!

Me, too!!! Yes, I had an abortion. It was legal, and it occurred in 1972, one year before Roe v. Wade would have made my experience far easier, less painful and much less dangerous. Back then, legal abortions could be as dangerous as the kind done with coathangers. Few physicians received much training in the procedure, and fewer knew which type of abortion was the best choice under what circumstances. I almost died from a raging uterine infection because the doctor chose the wrong procedure. He did a find job tying my Fallopian tubes, which I requested, but the actual abortion apparently confused him. The attitudes of the medical staff at the public hospital where I had the abortion done were almost worse than the infection. A pre-abortion counselor accused me of "killing my baby", the recovery room nurse scolded me for writhing in pain, and the doctor who treated the infection told me I'd never be able to have children "as a result of your illegal abortion". When I asked him if he'd bothered to look at my chart, he left the room in a huff. My mother told me everyone was angry because I took "charity money" by going to a public hospital (her primary concern was what people would think of her daughter accepting welfare). Anti-abortionists ignore the fact that their "rules" demand women allow the use of their flesh for the survival of another. There is no law in the US that demands a MAN donate HIS flesh and blood for the survival of another. This kind of gender exploitation applies only to women, and once again applies to an entire group of people in a way that is hideously reminiscent of slavery.

"The man" has equal say in whether or not to abort a pregnancy -- their right to decide it is limited to their own body.  Every person should have every right to decide whether or not to continue a pregnancy in their body.  No difference between men and women in that regard.
Of course not. Every individual should have the right to opt out of parenthood.
Yes, because child support is the right of the child. It's not about the parents at that point.
Child support is for the benefit of the child. If the man has custody of the child, he could seek child support. If both lose custody of the child, then both may owe the state child support
Of course. Why do people even ask this question? There is absolutely no legitimate comparison between being forced to pay money and being forced to give up your bodily autonomy.
Each parent has the right to opt out of parenthood. You can have your opinions on whether or not they should, but they have the right to. It's important everyone chooses parenthood when they're ready, improves lives of the parents and the lives of the children.

I think this article is very important because it puts a huge damper on the "Pro-Life Restrictions Work" assertion of Pro-Lifers. Alabama has been known as the most pro-life state. It has passed an increasingly high number of abortion restrictions in recent years. But this article which cites a report from the Alabama Center for Health Statistics clearly shows that the number of abortions in the state is actually increasing despite these restrictions.
What should we expect from people who think telling teenagers sex is icky is gonna make them not wanna do it?

Seriously, Vice?
They do link and show several studies on how this supposed pill doesn't work and how the research is tenuous at best.
Yeah, so why do they say "godsend" rather than "placebo"?
Hi all,I volunteer with my local pro choice group as a clinic defender, and we are trying to put together a proposal to the city council for a 'medical facilities quiet zone' ordinance, essentially restricting the city from issuing amplified sound permits within [x] distance of any brick-and-mortar medical facility.Do any of you fine people happen to live in (or know of) other cities which have enacted similar ordinances? I'd love to take a look at the language in them and research to see if any have upheld court challenges.Thanks in advance!
What country and/or state are you in?
North Carolina, USA


Jon Tester. Montana. Real journalists pay attention to details.

Every time I think the pro-life people can't get creepier they somehow find a way to surprise me.

Well, yes, being harassed and abused after exiting a clinic following a procedure is definitely traumatic and the fault of the campaigners. Slightly /s :)
I get where this is going and what the idea is, but I definitely still have trauma from my decision to have an abortion. I was married and pregnant. Long story short things snowballed and he was physically/mentally abusive, but before those things came to light I wanted my family, our family. I wasn’t allowed to have a cell phone when he left the house. I wasn’t allowed to work (which started as he wanted to take care of me when I a pregnant) I was no longer allowed to wear make up. My family started to notice bruising on my face when I would see them. To make a long story short he got arrested for the second time for physical abuse. I was penniless, I had no one, I hadn’t been to college, there was no way I could see to take care of a family. When I was left with nothing and no one to lean on, I decided to have an abortion and to get an annulment. I think it hurt the most because I wanted her so bad. I’m not a religious person, but I desperately wish for an afterlife to meet her. I wished things were different desperately. I wished I had gotten out sooner and maybe things would have been different. I will hate and blame myself for that decision for the rest of my life, but I still cannot say I made the wrong choice. Things are much better now Going through the procedure in that office was probably the most agonizing thing I have ever done, I’ve never talked about it and I can hardly think about it without tears. While I think the trauma of having to have the child and be tied to my ex surpasses the trauma of making the decision, I still think there is trauma. I do not think however this should be used as a tool designed to try to take away from women’s choices and rights. I just think that sometimes the “right” thing to do is really fucking hard and comes with consequences, but again, the consequences I suffer today are much less than the consequences I would have suffered being a single mom without a dime that struggles with addiction issues and bipolar disorder. At least for me, the trauma is real, but i chose a different trauma. Edit: I know my circumstances are not all circumstances. It’s a hard decision to make for sure, but we are all entitled to that choice. And for me, it’s just one of Those things that doesn’t ever stop hurting, it just gets farther and farther away from you, you stop thinking about it as much.
I saw in your post that you've never talked about it. I don't know anyone (or if I do, I don't know) who is struggling with the trauma of an abortion, but I do know people with real trauma that have also not talked about or worked with it. The effects of past trauma is so real, and I want you to know that you don't have to live like this. There is counseling available, and trauma specialists can help you get to a place where you can think about this memory and integrate it into your life, your self-image, into the story of your life. This won't mean you'll change how you feel about the experience, simply that rather than being unable to do anything but react in a very strong emotional way to it, you'll be able to acknowledge your feelings and process them in a healthier way. Specific to abortion trauma, there is the organization Rachel's Vineyard that holds retreats for women in your position. That could be a help to you.

It’s almost like people are individuals who can process experiences differently. You’re rude as fuck, but no offense.
You know it really sounds demeaning when people say “no offense”? I was just sharing my personal experience in my personal circumstances And I said many times I know I made the right decision. You have absolutely no idea whether I am in therapy or not and I would guess that you’re not a psychological professional. I think just because your experience was what you envisioned for the process, it doesn’t mean that other peoples experiences are invalid because they’re “messed up”. Never helps to ignore issues.
Apologies for that person, that response was beyond messed up.
Thank you. It’s really hurtful because it hard to understand that we’re on this sub for solidarity of this issue, but yet, if my issue doesn’t match your issue there’s something wrong with me. I wish I could feel nothing over it, but I understand that not everyone has to switch gears from wanting this dream family to having to make a hard decision.
Wow way to be compassionate /s
What is wrong with wanting an afterlife?
Of course.
That’s not surprising, seeing as how they pretty much lie about everything else as well.
Totally agree however lets not discount that an abortion can indeed create grief, especially if it is of a wanted baby. I would consider such abortions similar to miscarriages. Also as others have stated you can have complex misfortunes mitigating grief about it. That you wanted a kid but decide not to have one now due to poverty (and feel shame), health issues (same or even feel hopeless), the end of a relasionship or even an abusive relasionship (again same). These are all things that would cause a person grief or even depression and it could be fixated on the event. Lastly, PPD can happen for abortions too. The cause not being abortion, but the cause being pregnancy and then the end of a pregnancy. As those endocrine changes are what trigger the chemical imbalances, and they can happen for any miscarriage, abortion or pregnancy. So although I would think still that the majority of abortions are a relief for women, and that a majority especially since they are early term, do not disrupt the hormones as much as a full term pregnancy, that there still might be a slight percentage of women who's hormones change enoug after abortion to trigger moodiness, and then that is shifted or projected into feelings of depression, regret or even existential crisis. Not because of the abortion though. But because life is complex and there are complex factors involved in any pregnancy outcome.
Just want to point out a few dishonest things in this article and headline. I feel like these are things that most people on this sub would have 0 patience for coming from the pro-life side, and it's pretty hypocritical to tolerate it from a friendly source. First, the organization being reported on, that the quote "Post-abortion trauma completely fabricated by pro-life campaigners" came from, the same quote ran as a headline and sounding like a simple statement of fact, is the British Pregnancy Advisory Service (BPAS). This organization is referred to, without being named, as "experts" in the lead paragraph of the article. It doesn't name BPAS until the fourth paragraph, where a single spokeswoman offered the quote. No explanation of what BPAS actually is was offered. The problem is that while the name BPAS seems to suggest some sort of official group, and upon first read I myself assumed was some sort of governmental group, it is actually a private charity that advocates for abortion. From their website: "We are the U.K.'s leading abortion care service." Hardly a disinterested or objective source when discussing abortion or assigning weight to studies. It's not until far lower in the article that it actually discusses the study that the spokeswoman was basing her statement on. First, the study analyzed the difference between women who sought an abortion and were denied, and those who had an abortion, and claims no significant difference between the two. While that may be true (and knowing what kind of weight to give this single study would entail a detailed examination of the study's methodology), there is an obvious difference between that result and stating that there is no such thing as post-abortion trauma as a whole. You could just as easily say that having an abortion is just as traumatic as being denied an abortion when actively seeking one. As far as the merits of the study, a simple glance at the ANSIRH's website shows an obvious and consistent bias towards seeing abortion as an unmitigated good. Ultimately, this kind of article, no matter what the subject, should be immediately distasteful and frustrating for anyone interested in honest debate and finding truth. No single study will ever conclusively settle an issue. You need a wealth of data and studies over time, and the data and studies need to actually be carried out appropriately, which is a whole other issue. Not only is the article dishonest for all of the above reasons, but it makes no effort to even acknowledge the existence of any study or literature attesting to the presence of post-abortion trauma. Just one example is Abortion and Mental Health: Quantitative Synthesis and Analysis of Research Published 1995-2009, published in 2011 in the British Journal of Psychiatry. This meta-analysis of 23 different studies found a statistically significant increase in the rate of mental health problems and substance abuse for women who have had an abortion, versus those who have not. Does this conclusively prove anything? Of course not. But it's simple dishonesty to pretend like pro-life advocates are evil trolls without a shred of evidence. If you're not willing to address your opponent's strongest arguments and instead attack straw men, that says much more about your own position than your opponent's.
You might prefer the NHS’s take on this https://www.nhs.uk/news/pregnancy-and-child/mental-health-after-abortion/
This study was shown to be methodologically and statistically flawed. Coleman’s meta-analysis is strongly criticized in BJP for violating several established guidelines for conducting meta-analyses, failing to evaluate the quality of included studies, not adhering to her own exclusion and inclusion criteria, and including studies that did not adjust for prepregnancy mental health. The errors are especially problematic because Coleman later cited her own study in a meta-analysis of studies looking at abortion and mental health. The meta-analysis, which was populated primarily by Coleman’s own work, has been sharply criticized by the scientific community for not evaluating the quality of the included studies and for violating well-established guidelines for conducting such analyses. The results of the review should be treated with caution due to concerns with the review methodology and reporting, and uncertain appropriateness of the statistical analysis. Overall the study should not be considered as evidence in this matter Sources: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmedhealth/PMH0041378/ https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/the-skeptical-sleuth/201111/is-having-abortion-likely-damage-womans-mental-health https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3646711/ https://www.guttmacher.org/news-release/2012/study-purporting-show-link-between-abortion-and-mental-health-outcomes-decisively http://healthland.time.com/2012/03/08/study-linking-abortion-to-mental-health-problems-is-flawed/ Some actually sound studies that show Abortion doesn't lead to harmful mental health outcomes. Four months after having an abortion, four in 10 women in a clinic-based sample studied in 1975 had unresolved negative feelings about the abortion. They differed from the rest in more often having “attributes that suggested avoidance of feelings or a negative self-image.” They also reported less stable relationships and less support from their partners than women whose feelings about the procedure were resolved. In a sample of teenagers who obtained pregnancy tests in 1985–1986, those who terminated a pregnancy were no more likely to have psychological problems two years later than were those who had not been pregnant or had gone on to give birth. In fact, they experienced less negative psychological change than the others. One week after having an abortion, women in a 2008­–2010 study “felt more regret, sadness and anger about the pregnancy than about the abortion, and felt more relief and happiness about the abortion than about the pregnancy.” The likelihood of having a mainly negative emotional response to the abortion increased with the extent to which women had planned the pregnancy and had had difficulty making the abortion decision. A study of Dutch women who were interviewed shortly after having abortions in 2010–2011 and followed for an average of nearly three years found no connection between abortion-related variables—preabortion decision difficulty or uncertainty, and history of multiple abortions, to name a few—and later mental disorders. But relationship problems and having a history of mental disorders were associated with subsequent mental disorders. In 2008, researchers at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health published their own analysis in which they concluded that “the highest-quality research available does not support the hypothesis that abortion leads to long-term mental health problems.”5 They found a “clear trend” by which “the highest quality studies had findings that were mostly neutral, suggesting few, if any, differences between women who had abortions and their respective comparison groups in terms of mental health sequelae.” Notably, the Hopkins teams also stated that it was the “studies with the most flawed methodology [that] found negative mental health sequelae of abortion.” It seems the question we should be asking is why Pro-Life advocates continously lie on this matter and fund and put forward dishonest studies in order to legislate their personal views.

I think he makes good points, but doesn't get to the root of the problem, which is equivocation of terms and an unformed concept of justice. To have a discussion on abortion, we have to agree on the terms. What is murder? What is a human person? What is homicide? When it comes to justice, we need to ask whether the goal of punishment is to simply punish (retributive), to reform (rehabilitative), or some mixture of both. As a pro-life advocate, I wouldn't call abortion homicide because I believe homicide requires knowledge of what one is doing, intent to do it, and freedom in doing it. I don't believe women who seek abortions agree that a fetus constitutes a human person. I don't believe they intend to kill a human person. I don't believe they feel totally free (e.g., financial constraints, fear). So it fails all criteria for homicide, and people who use this term are ignorant. The article says we wouldn't speak about "healing" for murderers of adults. I would. I believe that while punishment is retributive, the grand focus should be on rehabilitating (healing) people. "Correctional facility" used to be literal. But that doesn't matter anyway because I wouldn't call for women to be punished for procuring an abortion. Because I believe in mitigating factors, such as mentioned above. As for why we don't pour money into stopping natural miscarriages. Why don't we do so to eliminate death of old age? Because it's perceived as "natural". Yes, we try to prolong life. But we don't try to eliminate death altogether. We can try to prevent miscarriages, but they do naturally occur, and it's futile to try to stop them altogether. On the other hand, as it would be wrong to terminate the lives of the elderly without their consent, the same (I would argue) applies to the unborn. So there is consistency here.
I disagree.  The issue is not murder but bodily autonomy.  If it's okay for the state to force someone to give up the use of their organ (uterus) for someone else (a baby) then it's legal in other instances.  The unwilling harvesting of kidneys, liver and lung lobes, skin, ears, blood, marrow, etc. would all become legal.  "Eat clean & no alcohol for the next month, you'll be donating to the president's nephew on June 2nd.  Do not expect to do any strenuous work until 2020." This is already in existence in China.  Unwilling organ harvesting is commonplace in jails... people who are a match are sometimes thrown in jail on trumped -up charges just so they can go under the knife.  They force women to have abortions, too, when the government thinks there's too many people. 8-months baby, black and dead by its mama. We DO NOT want to give up our rights to bodily autonomy.
How can you possibly possess the right to bodily autonomy without having been granted the right to life itself?
Expound please.
Humanity's priority right, the one that undergirds all other rights, is the right to life. Children need to survive the womb before they can have any needs, e.g. a right to bodily autonomy.
My comment was made from the argument presented in Roe V Wade: the state cannot force any citizen to give up the use of their organs to save another citizen.  This is the right to bodily autonomy.  The state cannot force you to undergo surgery to give me a kidney, and it cannot force women to give up their uterus for someone else. You're welcome to argue ethics for yourself.  This was solely about what the state cannot legislate.
You haven't yet addressed the fact that right to bodily autonomy does not exist without the right to life, which abortion violates.
It does. That's why no one can be charged with excessive force when defending their own body from immediate unwanted threat and harm. And they certainly don't have to prove to some third party first, their level of danger, before they obtain the right to protect their own bodies. That's why even in instituting a military draft, the government must prove that the entire nation is in GRAVE DANGER AND CRISIS, and yet even so you have the right to conscientiously object, a means to due process, full disclosure, and the right to just compensation (even the lowest toilet washer in the army is paid- even if they never are wounded, and never see battle.) That's why the government can't just seize anyone's property or violate anyones privacy for any reason. That's why its legal to kill someone raping you, even though rape is even less physically harmful on average than giving birth. Does the existence of a pregnancy mean a woman's private medical history, body, health and life suddenly de facto becomes the public domain with no due process and no just compensation? Fucking no. What doess the 4th and 5th amendment mean? Where's the crisis? Where's the crime or suspicion of a crime? Is pregnancy, a medical condition de facto a suspicion of a crime? Or a criminal state? I.e. some kind of pre-crime? Automatic right for the government to own you? Are we saying rape or any other form of bodily slavery or violation is something you can defend with lethal force but unwanted pregnancy no? Why? Because fetus? That's the definition of class based legislation and a violation of many many human rights.
That's exactly what the essay is about.
You’re not so much adding to the conversation as much as you’re attempting a clumsy smokescreen. You approach the miscarriage argument, but instead you swerve into implying that no one is working on end-of-life care. Finally, the crux of your post is that we have to define terms, but that seems to show that you didn’t read the article, in which definitions are explored. I’m attempting to explain why your post isn’t being received well.
Thank you, that is helpful. I didn't mean to imply that no one is working on end-of-life care, but that this work tries to prolong life, not totally eliminate death. I compare this to similar work on reducing the rate of miscarriage while maintaining a recognition that it can't be totally eliminated. The article does explore terms, but what I meant to get at is that it didn't actually define them. The author pokes holes in his opponents' use of terms without fleshing those terms out himself. Not that this makes his article a bad one, but I do find that many people are unwilling to go there and keep the discussion at a surface level. I don't mind getting downvoted. I'm glad I started an honest discussion in an otherwise empty thread.
Infant mortality rate used to be normal and commonplace but we as society found ways to greatly reduce it. We're even trying to cure people with conditions barely compatible with life. Natural death is no excuse for not finding a cure.
Well that's infantilizing and ignorant. You can still kill a human person and have it not be murder, it's called justified homicide. So, in my case, if a zygote is a human being, even though its legally unfit for trial, it's still not murder, since no one has a duty to retreat from something they physically cannot retreat from, especially if it's a literal harm to them, zygotes burrow on their own into the uterus, there's ofc also the concept of continuous consent, and on top of all that no one single act in sex or in any other legal activity in life, can remove these rights for legally abiding citizens. Especially based on the class of persons involved, which for pro-life people it's always and has forever been about fetuses and women. Always. It's not about responsibility, its not about sex, its not about life, its about fetuses and the fact they consider them to de facto own a woman's body as long as they show up there. That's it.


Yes!
I'm not sure how much it affected the situation but a petition and social media campaign was launched



This was written in hell.
Ironically I started watching the new series of The Handmaids tale last night
I couldn't read the whole thing, I was going to vomit.
Feel free to discuss , or read the 5000 comments
I am somewhat glad that WaPo doesn't display on my mobile device.
Um, he is a libertarian? I haven’t identified as a libertarian in five or six years but it appears there has been a major shift in ideology if that is what they believe...

This makes 0 sense. If you wait until someone's life is at immediate risk you might not be able to save them at all!
The cute little undeveloped fetus, though.
Not only did they force this woman to remain pregnant and deliver a baby, they forced her to create another human with the same problems as her, so the cycle continues. SMDH.
Powerful.  Thanks for sharing.
The anti- choice crowd will respond to this by saying "Right call. She lived.". Makes me sick.


One of the foremost experts on fetal development the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) said it considers the case to be closed as to whether a fetus can feel pain at that stage in development. "The science shows that based on gestational age, the fetus is not capable of feeling pain until the third trimester," said Kate Connors, a spokesperson for ACOG. The third trimester begins at about 28 weeks of pregnancy. This viewpoint is not only backed by major studies, but also by several distinguished medical clinics around the world. Let's explain how this work. The fetus does not have the necessary developed and/or functioning structural integration of the nervous system to experience awareness or pain until the third trimester. The perception of pain requires an awareness of an unpleasant stimulus — receptors throughout the body must send a signal to the brain, where it can be processed as pain. An important stage of cortical development is the formation of the subplate zone, a prominent, transient layer of the human fetal cerebral wall which develops around 13 weeks and gradually disappears after 32–34 weeks. The subplate is thought to be the main synaptic or neuronal connection zone in the human fetal cortex where incoming fibers from the thalamus, the main sensory (and pain) relay center, and other regions of the cortex gather during the crucial phase of cortical target area selection. The arrival of thalamic fibers and formation of thalamocortical synapses in the newly formed cortex from 24 weeks onwards provides the minimum connection required for cortical processing of sensory events in the body. The completion of major pathways from the periphery to the cortex, at around 24 weeks, does not signal the end of cortical development- it signals the beginning of a further maturation process. As spinothalamic pathways complete their connections with the cortex, they increasingly stimulate the development of intracortical pathways, which is the next major phase of neuronal maturation. The cortex sends connections down to the brainstem and spinal cord while the motor centers of the brain have begun to form connections with the spinal cord and brainstem by 26–28 weeks. When the neuroanatomy of a fetal brain is observed, there is a lack of cortical connections, which (when functioning) allows the sensation of pain to be transmitted by sensory neurons, specifically nociceptors, ascending the spinal pathways to the thalamus before it relays to the cortex. The exact week a fetus feels pain is currently unknown, however, a fetus doesn’t feel pain or recoil in agitation at 12 weeks like the “Silent Scream” propagates, nor does it feel pain at 20 weeks as some lawmakers across the United States claim. Because of the connections between the thalamus and cortex have not formed until between 23-30 weeks gestational age, a fetus does not feel pain until the third trimester (28-40 weeks), which is beyond the 24-week deadline to obtain an abortion. Further References: http://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/201429 https://www.rcog.org.uk/globalassets/documents/guidelines/rcogfetalawarenesswpr0610.pdf https://embryology.med.unsw.edu.au/embryology/index.php/Neural_System_Development#Spinal_Cord_Axes http://nba.uth.tmc.edu/neuroscience/m/s2/chapter07.html https://www.verywell.com/how-we-feel-pain-2564638 http://www.lemauricien.com/article/abortion-fact-fiction-and-humanity http://www.factcheck.org/2015/05/does-a-fetus-feel-pain-at-20-weeks/ ️* http://www.news-medical.net/health/What-does-the-Thalamus-do.aspx *️ http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1440624/ *️ http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/self-awareness-with-a-simple-brain/ *️ http://m.motherjones.com/politics/2013/06/science-house-abortion-ban-fetal-pain

I'd say nobody is certain of anything, at best there's a reasonable level of confidence given currently available information. Equipoisonous has covered the main point. Also, there's some thought that a foetus is in a reduced state of awareness while in the uterus, even later in term. See e.g. this. I have not vetted it for credibility in detail. This article covers newborns, but has some interesting background to help understand the topic. There is work ongoing on foetal FMRI to help produce better evidence here. But since we don't know for sure what "conscious awareness" looks like in an adult brain let alone a foetal brain, there's always going to be room for interpretation. The truth is, nobody can ever know 100% for sure. I'm inclined to believe that a foetus likely goes through a graduated level of awareness starting somewhere from 20-30 weeks through to a drowsy/sleepy/light-sleeping state before birth. But that's just from various scattered reading, and is not evidence or argument of any form. I also suspect a chicken is likely a whole lot more conscious, aware, and capable of thought than a mid-term human foetus.
Even newborns don't get the same pain treatments that older babies/children get.  Male newborns are circumcised without anesthesia.  My daughter broke her collarbone being  born and we had to ask the ped. at the hospital for a dose of tylenol, it wasn't default to offer her anything in that scenario.
Premies often don't feel pain or are able to differentiate between feelings. What articles or scientists are you referring too so we are on the same page?
No articles, just from opinions of a NICU nurse who said she is certain her premies do feel pain.
That's not really a good source. The general agreement is that preemies cannot differentiate between any feeling, let alone feel pain.


Pro-Lifers don't really care what Medical Experts think. They only listen to their stock set of pro-life doctors from the 1980s or outdated textbooks.
Probably true for the hard core, but I still think such statements are valuable in terms of those who are indecisive.
I’m from Dublin currently living in Toronto, I’ve been trying to stay as informed as I can on everything that’s happening, but I was wondering what way is it really looking in terms of percentage? Is there is strong indicator yet at home of which way it might be going?
Here's one poll taken on April 20 and reported in the Irish Times. Results there 47% repeal, 28% keep, 20% undecided and 4% refused answer. Another poll on the 22nd was similar. In fact little has changed since the beginning of the year despite a very vigorous campaign waged by the no-repeal side. Here's an article from April 20, albeit from a very pro-choice perspective, analyzing the various polls. Putting all this together I'd say that repeal will almost certainly win.
Thanks for the info, much appreciated :)




The irony of them continuing to say they are "pro-life." Well, at least they are being more upfront with their actual goals.

I got in an argument with a user here and I frankly find some of the things they said ridiculous to the point that I'm questioning whether they are a troll. Anyways, I'm liberal and pro-choice as fuck, so I'm curious how many other people here agree with one thing this person said.Me: It's the same reason I don't go around saying all trump voters are racist.Them: The difference is that there are a ton of reasons that people may have voted for Trump and only some of them are racist. That isn't true for the pro-life movement. The only goal there is to strip women of their ability to make their own health care choices.So yeah. I think that statement is clearly pretty far from the truth. I'm curious to hear what other's think.
Well if anti-choicers achieve their ultimate goal of taking away women’s right to bodily autonomy, women will by definition no longer be allowed to make their own healthcare decisions. So... they seem right on the money. Though not sure why you’re even making a post about another pro-choicer on this sub who is stating the obvious, which is that taking women’s right to control their own uterus away is the same as taking away women’s right to make their own healthcare decisions. If anything this post seems kind of trollish.
The question is about pro-lifer's reasons and motivations for thinking abortion should be illegal. Is it because they want to take away womens' right to bodily autonomy? Or is it because they see an unborn child's right to life as being more important than a woman's right to bodily autonomy? If you think it's the first, then yeah, you agree with their statement.
So, it boils down to do they want to take women’s right to bodily autonomy away? Or do they want to take women’s right to bodily autonomy away? Still not seeing why this is worthy of a post whining about another pro-choicer. Do you do that with everyone that doesn’t agree with you?
No. It boils down to "do they want to take women’s right to bodily autonomy away because they want to control women's sexuality?" or "do they want to take women’s right to bodily autonomy away because they want to prevent abortions?" The only difference I'm discussing is the reasons and motivation. This user thinks the vast majority of pro-life people are primarily motivated to be pro-life in order to control women's sexuality. I think many are primarily motivated to be pro-life in order to stop abortions. Yes, the outcome is the same. The reasons are different, and that's what is being discussed here. Don't try to distract from that. My intention was not to whine but literally to see if this is common, because I was pretty blown away by the fact that that person thought this way and I didn't imagine it would be common at all.
Lol this is pretty pathetic of you OP. Why not just debate me yourself?
i was a pro-lifer just because i was a dumb kid and didn't actually understand the issues. i just thought i was saving da baybeez
When I was a kid I was pro-life too- but it was because I was raised in a deeply misogynistic, religious atmosphere that I internalized. I was taught- like many people in very conservative areas are- that a women's purpose in the world is to have children and die for them if necessary. That is a misogynistic idea that people are brainwashed to believe in places like where I live- that a fetus is more important than a woman is.
Oh, yeah. But I was being accidentally misogynistic, too. "strip women of their ability to make their own health care choices" Is that what I was doing, way deep down in my dumb little soul? Maybe...
I don't think of it as I was dumb but that I was raised in a place that didn't allow me to look at every side of an issue and made to feel like I had to think a certain way. I didn't become pro-choice until I was nineteen and my sister almost died from pre-eclampsia. Even though she gave birth the fetus died because it was so premature and she was sick for months but she was still made to feel like a sinner where we lived. That's why I call pro-life people out on their misogyny- the point of the movement is to brainwash people into seeing women's bodily rights as taking a backseat to how they want women to behave.
Not everyone is you.
I noticed you never responded to my other comment, btw. And not everyone is me but plenty of people have had a similar experience as I did. They go along with the same ideas they have been indoctrinated with and never examine them. That's why the pro-life movement is so deeply aligned with religious ideas- they want to brainwash people young into being misogynistic.
Sure. And plenty had very different experiences too. I'll respond to the other one.
Having a different experience doesn't change what the intent of the pro-life movement is or why people propagate it. The same can be said about the anti-gay movement- people might have different experiences but that doesn't change the homophobia inherent in discriminating against people for their sexuality.
Sure. I didn't say it did. Yeah but people can have different reasons or motivations for wanting to discriminate.
Having a different reason doesn't mean they aren't homophobic- some might be super religious and some might hate it because it goes against the conservative grain. But the reason doesn't change their motivation to make gays second class citizens.
Do you not see how those are contradicting statements? Their reasons are their motivation. So if people can have different reasons, then you can't say they are all motivated by the idea of making gays second class citizens. In the end, they are still homophobic, yes, but people can have different reasons/motivations for being discriminatory.

I am, but if you don't start backing up claims with sources I'm not going to humor you any longer.
At least you know you're pathetic. Also don't bother humoring me- I know you're wrong so you are pretty much wasting your time.
Am I pathetic for thinking conjoined twins are people?
Lmao you're pathetic for deleting your account to make a new one after trying to debate me.
It got deleted when I made r/emailFlood. Apparently it's considered doxxing.
Because that is doxxing... wtf is wrong with you?
No, emails are public information. I don't connect a person to an email or an email to an account. I simply make people aware that it exists. And you're changing the argument. Why do you downvote all my posts anyway, seeing as no one agrees with you about conjoined twins not being people?
Who didn't agree with me? Also encouraging people to harass someone on a public forum because you don't agree with them is fucked up. Not everyone's email is public information- if they don't post it publicly then it certainly isn't. You're a terrible excuse for a human being.
Re-read the post But I'm sentient and don't rely on someone else's body. And I'm not a conjoined twin.

The problem with that statement is that the arguer assigns their own views to the other side, assuming those people share their views. It's easy to misrepresent someone or their arguments to make them easier to tear down. But saying anti-choicers want to strip women of their rights is as ridiculous as saying pro-choice folks hate babies and want them murdered. It is simply taking the issue and assuming everyone looks at it through the same lens you do. It would be accurate to say that anti-choice people contribute to the stripping of women of their rights. It is not accurate however to say that is their goal or what they are trying to do.
Thank god there's someone with some common sense here. I was seriously getting confused.
No problem, I am glad I could help. I have caught myself in the past doing this very thing, where the premise of my argument assumes the other person has the same basic view I do, then telling myself, "hang on, back up" and look at their perspective. It's easy to slip into, but yes, it's nice to find someone else who understands!
Hey that was the same person who said conjoined twins aren't people! I'm w/ the OP.

This is one of those "women's health centers" John Oliver was going on about.
Disgusting. Mayor Pete is probably opposed to this.
we're trying but its an uphill battle: http://www.abc57.com/news/petition-urges-mayor-to-veto-vote-approving-womens-care-center-site-near-abortion-clinic
Willing pro-life people are free to help that separated embryo live independent of the unwilling mother. An abandoned one month old newborn can live with the help of other willing people, so can a physically disabled man live, but a 5 months old embryo cant survive. Surviving is the basic thing to determine if a thing is a living organism. So unless an embryo can live independently or with help of willing others, it is not a living being. Libertarianism is basically pro-choice.
Similar theory is evictionism https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evictionism
I'm generally cautious of arguments proceeding from the dependency of the fetus. They fall too much in line with ableist language that grounds personhood in independence. We are all dependent for much of our lives, young children and the very old often require support. This does not make them lack rights as people let alone living beings. Maybe stick to arguments based on the bodily autonomy of the mother.


Even if abortion is murder then the right thing would be to abort to prevent future offsprings from "murdering". With the high amount of offsprings and the regularity of birth they are just likely to decrease overall abortions if they have one.
It doesn’t really work as a justification. It falls more along the lines of thr pro-life argument of aborting a famous musician like Mozart or the person who kay cure cancer. Simply put, we have no idea what a fetus may do if they grow up so such arguments are silly since we may be just as likely to abort the next Hitler or Stalin. Most people are average and make no major impact which seems to scare pro-lifers because they think they are spu-ziel!
According to that logic, it would be okay to a kill a 2 year old because it would prevent the kid from growing up and possibly having an abortion. You don't fight fire with fire. Justifying an abortion because it might prevent other abortions makes no sense.
It actually would since it may create more murder and what do you choose? Risk 1000 People being murdered by not killing one? I don't really view abortion as murder btw. I can imagine if there was a 50 percent chance of somoene actually having offsprings that would murder somoene and the offsprings offspring has a 50 percent chance of murdering somoene and so on and so on i would kill. Not that i view abortion as murder. In the worst case scenario some People may actually choose to kill that 2 year old, but i think the most likely scenario is that People will realize if they don't kill the 2 year old to stop so much murder then they may realize it is not murder to have an abortion.
Yes, that's fine by me. It's not guaranteed that the fetus will grow up to be someone who has an abortion. So why should we guarantee the death of one fetus just to avoid the possibility of other fetuses dying as well. Again, it's as sensible as killing a 2 year old just to avoid them possibly having an abortion in the future. I understand that, but your original post was all about assuming that abortion is murder for the sake of arguing that it would be permissible anyways. And if you expect an argument like this to work on pro-lifers, you must also entertain the possibility of someone killing a 2 year old for the sake of preventing future murders. Yes, but it would be illegal wouldn't it? If someone killed a 2 year old just to prevent future murders, they would be legally punished. Why should it be different for abortion if it actually is murder? I'm sorry, I don't understand what you're trying to say here. Can you please clarify?
The possibility of it happening is not too far fetched and if it does happen then it creates a lot of "murder". The majority of people will have children in their lifetime and that can go on for a very long time. It is hard for it to stop just like it is hard for an avalanche to stop the more snow it is. It is true that it is a possibility tough. A possibility for it to not happen and happen. i think a possibility is not always a dead end in an ethical argument depending on the risk for much greater harm. I just wanted to clarify Just because something is legal or illegal does not make it right or wrong. Ethical arguments make things right or wrong. The last thing i wrote is not that important. I realized it can be interpreted as a strawman anyway. What i meant was that if people don't accept the benefit of killing possible future murderer-maker that may make murderers over many generations then they don't view abortion as murder because they clearly would accept the benefits of it if that was the case. People also tend to believe what they want, and as soon as people may make that logical conclusion or are introduced to it they may reject it. In hindsight i see this argument as potentially dangerous because it can create lunatics who kill people, but any argument that can be used to make abortion everywhere legal can save a mothers life too.

Yay!



I recall a similar moment years ago. Deciding that a superficial appearance wasn’t what would determine ethical significance for me.
This sounds like a religious epiphany, or like how I'd imagine someone might decide to become pro-life after seeing an ultrasound. Pro-lifers often like to portray their position as the more scientific. Don't anecdotes like this only serve to support that notion?
Yeah I thought the essay ended abruptly on that point. Why didn't the fetus look like a baby? I think a fetus is not a person, though I've never seen one.

I am all for debate, but your condescending tone implies an inherent superiority in your ethos, that after debating with a lot in r/the_donald I really don't feel like dealing with at the moment.

Nothing says you value life like referring to a fetus as “evidence.” Also, not being able to trust a kid to cross a street on their own seems like a very good argument for abortion, not against. Edit: Also, aren’t they making a strong argument for why minors should be able to get an abortion by themselves? All the cases they cited involved women getting abortions with their guardian’s permission.
“You aren’t old enough to decide you need an abortion! Here, be responsible for this tiny human instead!”
“You can’t handle not being run over by a car! I totally think you’re capable of making healthy choices for the next nine months!”
One would surely think that the take-away from this information is to mandate adult chaperones for all street-crossing minors . . . Seriously, though- J. Shoshanna Ehrlich's Who Decides: The Abortion Rights of Teens is a excellent book that delves into and explains all the facets of the parental consent, parental notification, and judicial bypass debate when it comes to minors and abortion; I can't recommend it highly enough if you want to learn more and be able to speak on the topic knowledgeably.
I think the only take away is that you need to teach your kid the importance of being aware of their surroundings while going somewhere. I haven't read that book but since the original poster is saying that children 13 and under are not good at crossing streets they by extension shouldn't be able to decide to get an abortion. First thing, children 13 and younger cannot consent to sexual relationships so this is rape. Second, all doctors are mandated reporters so it isn't that they are knowingly covering anything up. The nastiness here is crazy to me- a child is raped, becomes pregnant and now they want to force her to give birth? That seems so unnecessarily cruel.
Ah, sorry- I was trying to be facetious and tongue-in-cheek, but it obviously fell flat- I only meant to point out how much of a non-sequitur jumping from cross-walking dangers to abortion was in that blogger's post, and not taking it to its logical conclusion (i.e. if you think that minors ought not obtain abortions on their own due to their lack of mental development, the same which makes street-crossing so dangerous, then surely you must also advocate they not cross streets alone too?).
Haha sorry if I came on too strong there. :p I just returned from the comments on that article saying things about "12 year old sluts" and my soul was scarred. But yeah I know they can make a nonsense leap from almost anything to try and prove why someone should get an abortion. Lol sorry I made you explain your joke :)
They can’t safely cross the street on their own, yet anti-choicers want to potentially maim or kill them by forcing them to give birth. They’re not mature enough to cross the street own their own, yet they’re somehow mature enough to go through a mentally and physically grueling pregnancy, potentially die during birth, and then raise a child if they survive. So “pro-life” they’ll willingly force 14 year-old girls to die giving birth.
They want to turn this country into Paraguay where there was also this case where they denied a ten year old an abortion after she was raped by her father. And if you read the comments on that thread their answer is to force the girl to give up the baby for adoption because she's a child. How is it not child abuse to force a 4th grade girl to be pregnant, risk her life giving birth and then give up the child? So gross.
Surely the conclusion of this study should be that pregnant 14-year-olds should be legally required to have abortions, as they can't consent to go through pregnancy and birth?
Does he realize that teenagers have sex? That young teenagers often have sex? I was horrified at the number of younger teenagers when I went on teenage message boards back when I was a teenager. My coworke and I were horrified when my 40 something coworker told me five years ago he lost his virginity at 12. We told him it seemed a bit young.
According to this study: Anti-abortion people are using this as evidence that children that are raped and become pregnant don't have the life skills to decide if they want to get an abortion. No information yet about how they are going to push a baby carriage around- or parent in general- when they can't make their own health choices or apparently cross the street alone.
I’m confused as to how these two things are meant to correlate.
They don't really. But what they are saying is that children that are 13 and younger- so basically girls that are 10 through 13, still struggle with things like crossing the road because their awareness hasn't matured. They think this is evidence that if children that age are raped then they should not be allowed to get an abortion because they aren't matured enough to make the decision.
Jesus, that is absolutely ridiculous.
And in the blog, he follows it up by listing teenagers being abused.

What an absolutely horrible article. His tone throughout it should be enough for you to know not to share this, plus the fact that his arguments are complete bs. Disappointed. I’ve seen better content from you before. Pro-choicers: don’t use these arguments to support your case, because quite frankly they’re garbage.
So wait? We shouldn't use a real-life experience that is analogous to the experience that many women face, and one that especially showcases a love between siblings? I am sorry you feel that a story highlighting the sacrifice of the human condition is "garbage" to you. I will be sure to remember your comment when pro-lifers bring up an emotional appeal that has nothing to do with reality, unlike this story.
They don't want you to talk about the real consequences for women because it takes the focus off the fertalized egg and that's all they care about. For a lot of these poeple the cost to women means nothing to them.
The article does not establish what it sets out to prove, i.e., that life doesn’t begin at conception.  It’s garbage.
Well, in a sense, yes. You shouldn’t use one real-life experience when trying to argue that life doesn’t begin at conception. When a human being begins is purely scientific and is to be decided by scientific evidence, NOT emotional stories. That is not to say I don’t sympathize, it’s not to say I don’t care about what happened. I know many people close to me who have suffered miscarriages, I know having an ectopic pregnancy is extremely difficult. It is an emotional thing, but it has no place in deciding when life begins. As you always say, anecdotal evidence doesn’t override scientific evidence and facts. Whenever pro-lifers use some emotional event to support their point of view, you get on their case and attack them. Now that this pro-choice article is clearly only arguing from emotion, suddenly it’s fine to just use emotion in the abortion debate. Make up your mind. You’re better than this.
The article is ok but scroll down to the comments. There are some really good points down there.

This is not true. Here is a comment I posted recently on a similar post in this sub: Let's look at the two versions most trusted and used by protestants, NIV and ESV. These versions focus on different methods for translation (phrase-by-phrase vs word-for-word) and both read similarly. NIV: “If people are fighting and hit a pregnant woman and she gives birth prematurely but there is no serious injury, the offender must be fined whatever the woman’s husband demands and the court allows. But if there is serious injury, you are to take life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound, bruise for bruise." ESV: “When men strive together and hit a pregnant woman, so that her children come out, but there is no harm, the one who hit her shall surely be fined, as the woman's husband shall impose on him, and he shall pay as the judges determine. But if there is harm, then you shall pay life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound, stripe for stripe." The fetus is not said to be miscarried here but just born prematurely. The Hebrew word used in this passage literally translates "to come forth" which sounds more like premature labor than a miscarriage. There is a Hebrew word for miscarriage, and it is used elsewhere in the Old Testament, but it is not used here. Also, in these translations the harm is not necessarily said to have been done to the woman, so it could be referring to harm done to either the woman or the baby. Your conclusion that the Bible places lower value on the fetus than the mother cannot be found here, and you'd be hard pressed to find it anywhere else. Source: Bible and https://www.brianseagraves.com/unapologetic-podcast/episode-82-does-the-old-testament-teach-that-the-unborn-isnt-as-valuable-as-a-born-person
As the Patheos article says, Evangelicals in the early 1980s rewrote their traditions to give the appearance that the bible has always been squarely anti-abortion. Both of those translations were written after that (NIV last updated 2011, ESV from 2001). However, if you look at the previous edition of NIV from 1984, there is a footnote on this verse, which states "or she has a miscarriage." The ESV was modified from the Revised Standard Version (translated in the 1950s through '70s, depending on the book), which reads "so that there is a miscarriage, and yet no harm follows." This is exactly what the Patheos article describes: translations from the 1980s and later claim that this verse is about premature birth, and translations from the 1970s and earlier claim it's about miscarriage. Evangelicals rewrote their translations to make it look like the Bible is anti-abortion, but this is a new thing. Similarly, there is a Hebrew word for birth, used elsewhere in the Old Testament, but not used here, either. The actual phrase is וְיָצְאוּ יְלָדֶיהָ, which I personally would translate as "and her child left." Google Translate says the child "left" or "came out," though it's not very good with Hebrew-English translation (it gets most of the grammar and several of the words wrong, and I can understand if you don't trust it). The verse uses allusion instead of being so explicit as either a miscarriage or a birth. Let's look at native Hebrew speakers reading the text in the original Hebrew. Chabad, one of the largest Orthodox Jewish groups in the world, translates it as "she miscarries but there is no fatality." The Mamre Institute, an Israeli group dedicated to publishing Jewish texts, reads it as "so that her fruit depart." I get that the podcast you linked to dismisses the Mishnah because it's a group of Jewish commentators rather than Christians, but it strikes me as very disingenuous to claim that people reading the original text in their native language cannot grasp the literal meaning of the words, whereas we, over a millennium removed, can get the true meaning from an English translation of a Greek translation of the Hebrew (even though our grandparents did not get the meaning right and we had to re-translate it again). Jews have a long tradition of being both scholarly ("people of the book") and vigorous debaters (hence the stereotype of the Jewish lawyer); these are not some illiterate yokels who can't read their own sacred text. Also, the notion of a premature birth is very modern. In the nineteenth century and earlier, basically all premature babies died. Incubators trying to keep preemies alive were so unusual that they were a sideshow at Coney Island in New York up through the 1940s. Care for premature births didn't come into its own until the 1960s, with people like Victoria Apgar pioneering ways of monitoring and caring for these babies. Two and a half millennia ago? Nobody knew anything about this, and they had no concept of premature birth because all premature babies died. The interpretation of Exodus 21:22 to be about premature birth didn't show up until the 1970s, once preemies started living often enough that their survival was seen as a real possibility.
Or we got better at translating, which makes sense given that we are generally more educated and i formation is much more readily available today than in the 80s. You can’t just assume that because the translations changed that it is less accurate than before. Also, what would be the motive behind changing the translation? The interpretation of the Bible is what motivates Christians to be pro-life, not the other way around. So we can probably agree it neither means a regular birth nor a regular miscarriage. Therefore, and I’m just spitballing here, it could mean an unusual birth like induction. This source says, “as a general rule, abortion in Judaism is permitted only if there is a direct threat to the life of the mother by carrying the fetus to term or through the act of childbirth. In such a circumstance, the baby is considered tantamount to a rodef, a pursuer after the mother with the intent to kill her. Nevertheless, as explained in the Mishna (Oholos 7:6), if it would be possible to save the mother by maiming the fetus, such as by amputating a limb, abortion would be forbidden.



And yet some women in red states still do not have easy access to safe abortions due to baby boomer pro life votes. In Texas there are only 39 PP clinics, 5 of which perform abortions Here's from planned parenthood site in TX Texas state law requires that the parent or legal guardian provide written permission for unmarried minors (under the age of 18) to have an abortion. There are a few exceptions: The minor can go before a judge and receive permission from the judge to have an abortion without the parent’s permission (also known as Judicial Bypass). Minors who are legally emancipated do not need to have permission from a parent or guardian. If there is a medical emergency and the pregnant minor needs an abortion, the parent does not have to give permission.
https://www.reddit.com/r/prolife/comments/8do7uu/no_women_whove_had_abortions_should_not_be/?st=jg8mnwdf&sh=2970f694The link above is to a thread in the pro-life subreddit regarding the ethics of punishing women for having Abortions. As you can tell, it's a very heated and a controversial topic.It's an interesting look at the psychology of the pro-life perspective.
This really illuminates the actual agenda of the "pro-life" movement. It's never been about fetuses, it's always been about punishing and controlling women.
Is punishing murderers and thieves not about preventing people from being murdered and stolen from? All laws have consequences for breaking them, but the consequences are not the focus
Abortion isn't murder or theft so that's a moot point. The real goal of the anti-abortion crowd is being able to figuratively put a gun to a woman's head and demand that she be pregnant. The fact that the majority of those people want women executed for abortion shows that they aren't "pro-life" they are anti-women.
No but they are crimes and we’re discussing making abortion a crime, so it is relevant. I’ve heard a lot of legitimate, thought-provoking arguments from the pro-choice side, from this sub specifically. Stick to those rather than straw men. That’s a lie. That’s the minority, by far. Nowhere in the 150 comments on that thread was life for life suggested and there was a much higher than average number of upvotes for the article that said we should be forgiving and compassionate towards the woman. In fact, we recently had a discussion on capital punishment on the sub where most people claimed they are against it.
Relevant only in your delusions that a fetus has rights or abortion is wrong? Oh I see. Good for you, go read those instead if what I have to say twists your panties into your asshole so bad. I also noticed you don't actually have any counterpoints to what I said- that the goal of antis is actually to punish women with pregnancy and to control their reproductive choices. No it really isn't. If you are claiming that abortion is the murder of a child (which it isn't) that's a capital offense. And the majority of people I interact with that are "pro-life" are advocating the execution of women that get abortions. Which is a minefield in that the rest of the world is moving toward it being legal- if I get an abortion in Canada or Mexico will you be allowed to execute me here?
Actually I did. I called it a straw man. That is your baseless opinion that is untrue. Do you think 40% of women who are pro-choice have the goal in mind of punishing and controlling women? If so, I’d love to see your evidence. Very rarely do murderers get the death penalty. Who you interact with represents an exceedingly small portion of the pro-life population
That isn't actually addressing something. I could go around calling every argument I don't like a strawman but that doesn't mean that it's true. I would first separate out the people who will say they think abortion is immoral when asked on a survey but then never think about it again- plenty of people will answer that way when asked but they don't actually care much about it and by extension will never do anything to make it illegal. Of the people who are activists and spend time lying to women and manipulating them I would say it's about 50/50. They have become more and more radicalized over the past ten years and become even more anti-woman than they use to be. Why don't you provide evidence that most antis think women should not be punished? Edit: Some googling turned up hundreds of people supporting Kevin D. Williamson after he said women should be hanged for abortion. Also found these: http://thefederalist.com/2017/09/20/ben-shapiro-wrong-prosecuting-women-get-abortions/ http://www.abolishabortionid.com/should-mothers-be-excepted-from-prosecution-for-abortions/ http://www.slate.com/blogs/xx_factor/2016/12/20/poll_women_should_be_punished_for_abortions_say_39_percent_of_trump_voters.html
Actually you made the original claim, so the burden of proof falls on you, and you provided none. That is my point The same could be said of those that say it’s moral Again, where’s your evidence? I never said pro-lifers don’t think there should be punishment for abortions. Most actually do think women who have abortions should be punished if abortion becomes illegal because laws must be enforced for them to mean anything. I’m saying that is not the goal. Saving the unborn is the goal. There is no evidence that pro-lifers are motivated by a desire to oppress women, and in fact there is evidence against that, like that 40% of women are pro-life, and if you go to any CPC, you will find that the vast majority of the staff and volunteers are women. Other evidence is that pro-lifers don’t fight for things that oppress women, like taking away voting rights, legalizing rape, etc. If pro-lifers were anti-woman, they would have multiple items on their agenda that oppress women that have nothing to do with anyone else’s lives. Therefore, calling pro-lifers anti-woman is a straw man that ultimately distracts from legitimate arguments. You would do well to steer clear of it Edit: Source 1 and 3 are meaningless as they are simply opinions. Source 2 changes none of what I said
My proof was the thread I was commenting on. Sure. The vast majority of people in the country don't care about it at all, which makes sense because it isn't their body so it's not really their business either. But abortion is already legal so the people that support it don't have as much work to do. Well, I use to work for PP so I saw the psychos pretty much on a daily basis. Homeland Security also named pro-life groups the most dangerous domestic terrorists a few years ago. Plus the violence committed by "pro-life" people has gone up. You said they were the small minority. But glad you've come around. That is not the goal. That's their cover for why they treat women the way they do, they need some excuse to farm out women's bodies. That proves absolutely nothing. There were also tons of women that opposed women getting the right to vote. How often do you see women shaming other women for their sexuality or life choices. Unfortunately, other women can be just as sexist as men are and internalized sexism is a problem. Women have just as much as a tendency to try to bring women down and limit their options because they have been brainwashed to believe women have a certain role in life and it always revolves around her uterus. Plus every movement loves a traitor. You don't even want to get me started on the literal shit stains that are people that work for CPC. But like I said- the fact that they are women doesn't mean anything. If anything it shows the lengths women will go to- even tramatizing or killing other women- just to force them to conform to their world view. Plenty of people do just that. Plus plenty of them push the notion that it's a woman's job to have children or any number of other religious nonsense that degrades women. Or they subscribe to the ideas that it falls on women to pump out children for their husbands. You see a lot of overlap with people that also hold narrow views of women. Plenty of them do have multiple things on their agenda. A lot of them push abstinence-only education. They try to limit women's access to birth control. They lie about the effectiveness of birth control. Plus look at the way pregnancy is talked about by you lot- it's a punishment woman should have for being sexually active. They should be forced to be pregnant for having sex. It's nasty and shows the amount of brainwashing that happens in places that shove religion on people. No thanks. It's important to call people out on why they are motivated to hurt people, not just why it's wrong to do so. First you skipped over the part where I mentioned the huge outpouring of support for Kevin D. Williamson because he said women should be hanged for abortion. Number three isn't an opinion, it's a poll that supported what I said that most conservatives want to punish women. And it changes everything about what you said- it isn't a small majority of antis that are violent, want to punish women or even kill them.
Well then I already refuted that because I read every comment and not a single person mentioned the death penalty for women Anecdotal evidence has little value in debate. Those people are a very small percentage of the pro-life movement. Plus, your opinion of them doesnt matter. Just because you disagree with them doesnt mean they’re “psychos”. You mean the report that was released by an unauthorized individual and later pulled? That report? Please start providing evidence and sources for your claims. I said those who want the death penalty for abortions are in the very small minority. If you need to lie to support your argument, then your position isn’t very strong. More illogical claims without any evidence. So they’re brainwashed because they disagree with you? Do you really think 40% of women are brainwashed? Are women really that easily manipulated? Are women that incapable of thinking for themselves? I sure don’t think so Again, just because you disagree with them, you have so much hatred for them. Evidence PLEASE. Nope. Definitely don’t think pregnancy is a punishment. A responsibility, yes, just like laws that require parents to house, feed, and clothe their children. Those laws are not punishments, but they are responsibilities. You said there were hundreds. First, I’d like you to provide a link for your evidence. Second, hundreds compared to 45% of the US population that’s pro-life is an infinitesimal amount. The VAST majority disagree with him, which is why he ran away from that statement. The author referenced the poll, yes, but the commentary was definitely opinion. Again, I never said pro-lifers don’t want women who have abortions to be punished. We are divided on that issue. What I did say is that we don’t want them facing the death penalty, and punishment is not our motivation. Funny enough, you’re second link actually provides evidence for my claim. The petition states, “The goal of the initiative is not to punish mothers, but it is to abolish abortion.” I’d love for you to point me to where in that article it said anything about pro-lifers being violent and wanting to kill women. It wasn't even hinted at. Did you even read the article? You have a bad habit of grossly exaggerating or outright lying. I’m becoming convinced that all you are is a troll.

I'd say it's a turn-around from previous stances, which have tended to paint women as victims rather than perpetrators (a la pre-Roe v. Wade).  There may have always been an extremist contingent, but I feel it's grown much larger recently, or at least more comfortable expressing itself.
I’d say this is true, but for pretty much all ideologies lately
Yeah... that's fucking bullshit and it's the one pro-choice argument that I find the most irritating. I agree that the problem with outlawing aborting is that it take the right to have control of their body away from women. I do not think for a second that that is the reason any significant number of prolifers think abortion should be banned.
It's not an argument for or against abortion. It's a comment on the ways the pro-life movement manipulate and abuse women. They aren't really interested in reducing abortions- they continually crusade against birth control and comprehensive sex ed too- the goal is to control women's sexuality. The view you consistenly get from them is that pregnancy is a punishment women must endure for being sexually active.
Do you have any evidence that a significant percentage of pro-life people do this? I've talked to a lot of pro-lifers, and I have to say I completely disagree. There is definitely a small subset that have really misogynistic views and think that abortion is just about sluts who have no sense of responsibility for their actions or whatever. But that's far from being common.
Any evidence besides the fact that all of the major pro-life groups tell women that birth control doesn't work? That the head of the biggest CPC chain says it's immoral to use birth control? Or that you can go on any pro-life board and see them deriding sex ed and mocking women that get pregnant while using birth control? That's what the vast majority think because most of them are fundie christians. "Far from being common"- Nope, that's the view of the majority.
Well they say it isn't 100% effective, which is true. In their eyes, birth control leads to people not worrying as much about pregnancy, and therefore leading to more abortions when it fails. That's not really about controlling a woman. It's still about preventing abortion. Uh, yeah that sure seems like an unbiased demographic to consider when trying define the views of everyone who is pro-life... Uh...I don't really think this is true at all. Again, there's a small minority with some pretty disgusting views, but most prolifers literally just think abortion is morally wrong. Citation on most being fundie christians? Another baseless claim. Look, I wish prolifers were like how you say because it would be a lot easier to discredit them. The inconvenient truth is that their not.
They don't say that birth control isn't 100% effective- they tell women that it is usually not effective and that it could make them sterile. They also say that having an abortion will make you sterile- which is another lie. They are lying about shit like that because they want women to conform to their idea of how women should behave. I'm sure they do think abortion is morally wrong but that isn't their primary motivation. Considering how many people support CPCs it is a good measure of their views. Most anti-abortion people are religious. Live in fantasy land all you'd like but misogynistic beliefs are the foundation of the pro-life movement. It's an easier place for them to defend because they aren't proposing to opening make women second-class citizens.
Again, this is CPCs, not your average prolifer. Have you considered that they don't know the full extent of the shitty things that go on there? Also, citation that most pro-lifers support them in the first place? Unless I'm missing something, this data is simply showing the number of people of particular religions who are pro-life. Not the percent of people who are pro-life who are religious. Do you have any evidence to say that the majority of pro-life people are religious? Lol you're the one in the fantasy land. You don't like their opinions so you pretend they're worse than they really are.
Only 19% of people that are pro-life don't have a religious affiliation. I feel like this is common sense but really just shows you have no clue what you're talking about. I'm actually giving them way more slack than they deserve. I mostly forgive them for being shitstains because most of them are super ignorant.
No, again, you've misinterpreted the data. This is saying that 19% of people who are not religions are pro-life, not the reverse. Do you have a source that says that most pro-lifers are fundamentalist Christians? Or even just Christians? Or even just religious? And again, do you have a citation that most pro-life people support CPCs? To reiterate my point from above, you still haven't don't anything to convince anyone that most prolifers are prolife because they want to control womens bodies rather than just prevent abortion.

Dear god, those comments are terrifying. Wanting to charge women with murder for abortion, these people are legitimately disturbed.
This discussion often refers to the characters involved as "the doctor" and "the woman."  As an ob/gyn, this is always confusing to me -- most doctors I know are women.  You never hear the characters in a vasectomy referred to as "the doctor" and "the man."
Well if it helps I always say mother.
No, it doesn’t. Consider saying “pregnant person.”
Lol. Nice try. Mother is completely valid.
Well, in fairness, you weren’t really trying to help. “Valid” is such an odd word choice.
Remember I am not thinking from you perceptive so I really thought it might be helpful. It wasn't until I received your reply that I started thinking from your perspective. I guess sometimes it makes people feel better to hide the reality or in this case, use an emotional word for mother rather than the biological version. Makes sense, I always do that when referring to adoption. Much more to being a mother than mere biology right.
There we agree. (The relationship between language and reality is fluid; I certainly use the word “mother” when discussing desired pregnancies.)
Anyone on here ever thought about picketing at PCC's? The women going in may have used limited resources to get to the center, only to find out the place was pushing a pro-birth agenda. Offering assistance to the women coming back out might help offset the harm caused by those places. The women might need a ride to a clinic that could offer them real information and options. I've never heard of any organized groups doing this and was curious what others think.
I think it'd be a good idea, but I don't know if women would feel comfortable getting a ride from a random person, even if they were promising to help with other choices.
That's true. Pre-pay for an Uber or Lfyt? Maybe if the legitimate clinic had some sort of pick-up service and the vehicle had a discreet logo? It just sucks that people squander their limited resources to go to these sham centers.
True, just wish there was better information out there to show these centers as what they are
I wonder if picketing a CPC would somehow make it seem even more like a legitimate clinic? Women and passers by might even expect to see protesters outside a legitimate clinic. Considering that protesters work through creating an intimidating presence which traumatised women, I’d suggest that you want to avoid doing this even outside a CPC. Just have 2 people outside, acting discreetly to warn approaching women that this isn’t s real clinic.
Hmmm, I hadn't thought of protesting as legitimizing the place. Picketers would draw attention and that could bring legitimacy (as well as funding). Abortion rights have been slowly chipped away and much of it comes down to difficulty accessing providers. Seems like offering easier access would be a way to counteract that problem. The pro-birth movement has a leg up where organizing is concerned. It feels harder to organize a movement that offers individual support than one that offers general intimidation. Also, most pro-choice mindsets are more "live and let live" rather than "conform to my belief". It's an interesting challenge. Seems like the current pro-choice tactics are not working to keep abortion accessible to the women most in need.
+
While a lot of crisis pregnancy centers are manipulative, there are a lot of genuine stories of women who have gone in and have really been helped. I want the pregnant people to be able to choose where to go without protesters. Also I think the most religious and manipulative CPC would just feel affirmed that they are the righteous persecuted. I wish there were a way to help the women who are hurt by these places, I just don't think this is the way to do it.

I need to remember to watch the full video. I wish I could take the proposed graduate class.
I highly encourage you to watch it. Many people see the word "personhood" and think it's just subjective law, but he actually does go into a lot of the science and shows why science doesn't support the anti-abortion movements talking points


...And I was pissed as soon as they announced it. I had absolutely no problem with the causes they chose to fund before- helping raise money to purchase livestock and farming equipment for poor families in countries like Uganda and Madagascar, because stuff like that actually helps people, instead of blatantly LYING (really Christ-like, ininit?) to vulnerable women and trying to chisel away at the hard-earned right of women to have control over their own uteruses.  My school IS Christian, so I suppose it’s not unusual that they would fund an anti-choice cause, but it still angers me. I don’t hate my school; but they have some screwed-up ideas- you can be expelled if the administration finds out that you’re gay, and if a girl gets pregnant, she would be asked to leave the school. That last part really reveals the true motivation of Christian antichoicers- shame anyone with a vagina for having sex (or possibly being coerced into it, God forbid!), instead of showing mercy and acknowledging that people (and contraceptives) aren’t perfect. I just wish they would have picked a cause that helps living, breathing, feeling people. If they really wanted to help reduce the number of abortions, they would give us an actual sex-ed (that goes beyond “premarital sex ruins you forever” and “abortion is murder, it kills innocent, pwecious, widdle  baaayyybeees made in God’s image!”), and and maybe donate the profits from the coffee shop to a reproductive health clinic that offers low-cost contraception so abortions won’t be needed as much. And, if they really “respected life”, they would not support a cause that is trying to force women back into the Dark Ages, forcing them to resort to mutilating themselves with unsafe procedures, which would leave their partners without wives or girlfriends, their existing children without mothers, their parents without their daughters, and their friends with one fewer friend. Sorry for this disorganized tirade, but I need to get this off my chest.
What's a CPC?
Crisis Pregnancy Center, they are purposely set up and modelled like planned parenthood or any other regular women’s health clinic, but with very little actual medical services to offer, beyond doing pregnancy tests and ultrasounds. They have a hidden pro life agenda and will try to sway women to continue with pregnancies irregardless of what they actually want. A lot of them are religiously funded.
John Oliver had a great piece on them, look it up on YouTube!
Crisis Pregnancy Center. They’re pro-life. If you want to read a pro-choice view of them, theres a post pinned to the top of this sub. If you want a pro-life view, search through the pro-life sub. I know recently there’s been a few posts defending them on there
They are shady as shit, and should not operate under the guise of care.
Ugh, that's terrible. I'm sorry. You're right that CPC do more damage than good. What you can do is continue to support reproductive rights. It's great that you're thinking independently even though you've been fed all this bull****.
That's horrible!


Most women do not even know they are pregnant by then. Every day it is some new fucking nonsense against us women. I am a veteran , dealt with VA appts yesterday and found out some men think they should give hysterectomies to all women in boot camp and  force them to be comfort women. fuck this shit I am angry
It will be struck down in court.
Republicans wasting time and taxpayer money passing unconstitutional laws, again.
I was just listening to the second episode of the Lady Parts Justice "Feminist Sleeper Cell" podcast and one of the ladies brought up a good point that they're trying to move away from the term "crisis pregnancy center", precisely because the majority of women going to these places aren't in crisis- they are calm and have decided/are pretty sure that they want an abortion, or, if they understand the nature of the organization they went to, they are calm and have decided they want to carry to term and need either resources or to confirm the pregnancy in order to access government assistance.I thought it made a lot of sense- I've used "crisis pregnancy center" or "CPC" in the past, but I can totally see how it paints a very specific picture of a distraught, confused, hormonal, and undecided/uninformed woman that only serves to play into anti-abortion stereotypes and the idea that patients must have waiting periods, etc. imposed upon them.So in that light, what name do you think would be better?   "Pregnancy resource center" might apply to a few places, but is far too innocuous/neutral-sounding for the deceptive "try to get abortion-seeking women to change their mind" practices most employ, and "fake clinic" is better, but seems to imply that all these places are without medical licenses or professionals of staff, which isn't true.Any ideas?  Or do you think it should stay "CPC"?
How about "clinic diversion center"? Or "undesired pregnancy traps"?
No idea LPJ had a podcast , thanks for that

side eye So they're saying a woman who... get this, made a CHOICE... is pro-life? It would have only been pro-life if she had said something like, "oh hell no, there's no choice in this matter, I got pregnant so I'm having a baby." What she ACTUALLY said was, "I don't feel like dealing with an abortion," and let's be honest here: abortions aren't fun for anyone involved. It's a surgical procedure, not a visit to the spa. It's not a trivial thing to undergo. (Then again, childbirth isn't too fun either...) It's definitely a struggle to try to balance career and family at the same time, but it's doable for me. I'm very privileged to have social, economic, and family support at this stage of my life to be doing all this. I made the CHOICE to take on the extra challenge. I'm not going to tell anyone to have a baby just because I decided to, and neither is Cardi B. This is stupid.
She's a liberal. Obviously.

I'm 23. I was raised in a Pro-Life household, and I accepted the rhetoric I was taught without question. But as I grew older and began to draw away from my parent's ideologies, I came over to the pro-choice side.
Tell me more. What drew you away? What did you find particularly convincing or unconvincing?
What drew me away was; being exposed to Feminism learning about horror stories of what happens when abortion is illegalized, such as a woman in El Salvador who spent 15 years in prison for a miscarriage 3)Meeting women who had had abortions with no regrets. I was always told that all women were emotionally destroyed and filled with regret after their abortions. I now know that's not true.
I will admit, it can get a little disheartening at times seeing the hysteria of the Pro-Life movement. But this poll is showing us that we are on a positive path. The percentage of young adults saying abortion should be legal in all or most cases has risen 10 percentage points since 2015. According to the Public Religion Research Institute (PRRI), a quarter of 18- to 29-year-olds say they have become more supportive of abortion rights in recent years; only nine percent have become less supportive. In one 2014 study, PRRI found that 65 percent of millennials said the term pro-life describes them "at least somewhat well" while 74 percent of this same survey respondents said the term pro-choice describes them well. And while 52 percent said abortion is "morally wrong" (compared to only 36 percent that said was "morally acceptable"), slightly more—55 percent—agreed that abortion should be legal in all or most circumstances. The latest PRRI survey suggests that some of this ambiguity around abortion is shifting. In the most recent poll, just 44 percent of 18- to 29-year-olds say that abortion goes against their personal morals. (For respondents 65 and up, the number is 60 percent.) And 65 percent agreed that abortion should be legal in all or most cases, up from 55 percent in a 2015 PRRI poll of millennials.
This is cause for celebration, but also vigilance!
They can’t afford planned pregnancies, let alone unplanned ones. I don’t blame them.
I was pro choice when I was younger but have become more pro life as I get older. The value of life has become too shallow.
But you don’t value life, you value the amount of lives present, not the quality. Otherwise you’d realize how horrible policies that restrict abortions really are to the general well-being of everyone involved.
So you are in favor of forced breeding?
Forced breeding? Wtf lol it's the carelessness so many young people put onto their bodies. Abortion isn't something that should be used casually and it sadly does. When their is incest and rape, yes I understand the need, but when you are consenting to having sex with someone even unprotected and become pregnant the value of that life should not be taken as no big deal and kicked to side.
You just punked yourself. Abortion isn't used casually, that is just something the Bill O'Reilly likes to push.   You are permitting abortion based on some behaviors, but not others.  That doesn't really value life, but punishes women based on some behaviors.  Also, if a woman is gonna die if she carries a baby to term.  She should have the option and not be a sacrifice to Donald Trump.
Abortion IS used casually all the time. It's happening right now as you read this.
What is casual about not wanting to bleed a half quart to a full quart of blood after 9 months of bodily strain, and then having a dinner plate sized internal wound (detachment of the placenta) inside your uterus that takes 6 to 12 weeks to stop bleeding, after shoving a 6 inch spheriod out of your genitals (thereby tearing them from the inside) as you shit and piss yourself in agony? And btw, I'm only talking about the average pregnancy. 1 in 3 cause additional complications to what I've just mentioned above. So when was the last time you gave birth and under what circumstances did you gestate the baby, deliver and recover? And what other circumstances in your life did you have a dinner plate sized internal wound where you lost 1/10th of your blood volume from it? Tell me what a "good enough" reason is to not go through that if you don't want to and aren't ready to?
Wow, your argument is basing off aesthetic reasons. That is so shallow.
What about an internal wound the size of a dinner plate (google detachment of the placenta - it happens like this for every birth, this is just the "average" experience) that you loose 1/10th of your blood volume from is a e s t h e t i c? Holy shit girlfriend. Like holy fucking shit.
Holy shit to you that you are still defending aesthetics reason. And losing a .5 quart or more is THE AVERAGE during child birth either it be vaginal or c-section face palm And it is blowing my mind you are classifying the uterus stretching during the growth of the child as an internal wound. WOW!!! I'll pray for you love
Your words are a disgusting example of a lack of empathy and  how you think the pain of giving birth literally doesn't exist. Most rapes leave no trace on the body, yet you would never argue for against the right to use lethal force on a rape. Every single pregnancy, labor and birth leaves MEDICALLY DEFINED TRAUMA AND WOUNDS on the body. WOUNDS. What about harm do you not understand? When was the last time you faced the risk of internal bleeding for 6 to 12 weeks?  And that's just the average. No it's not you are so ignorant. The detachment of the placenta is what occurs after you give birth, and it pulls free leaving on average, a dinner plate sized wound in the uterus that usually continues to bleed for 6 weeks after you give birth, from which you lose 1/10th of your blood volume. This is why mothers often have to take time off "babymooning" they call it, to rest and allow the wound to close naturally. The risk of sepsis and hemorrhage is quite high for this medically defined internal wound, and many believe that this post-natal wound was the original cause for so many maternal deaths before the advent of antibiotics and sterilization of medical tools.  Sometimes it takes women 12 weeks for it to close. You should pray for yourself and your ignorance, as well as your lack of empathy for the pain and literal physical self-sacrifice that women endure to give birth. I'm only even talking about something that happens in EVERY birth. I'm not even talking about complications which occur in 1 in 3 of pregnancies. Get over yourself. BTW just in case you decide im bullshitting here: https://www.todaysparent.com/pregnancy/pregnancy-health/everything-you-need-to-know-about-your-placenta/ Edit: Sorry that wasn't the right link but it does have some good stuff about complications related to the placenta Here: http://www.heartlanddoulas.com/5-things-you-didnt-know-about-your-placenta/

Me too. I wan raised pro-"choice", but the older I get the more imoral abortion seems, (unless it's to save the life of the mother).
You should read about duty to retreat and the rights to your own body. Even if someone just wants to rape you, not kill you, you have the right to kill them as a last resort. Everyone does. Thats not immoral. That's the bill of rights. Your human rights. The governent cant say "well they just want to cut off your pinky fingers so if you kill them in self defense from that that's murder." That's not how any of it works. Lethal force is a scale-able response to your ability to get away, not to the level of danger. You cannot have a duty to retreat from someone you cannot possibly retreat from. I.e. an impossible duty to retreat. That's why abortion is legal. You cannot possibly retreat or de-escalate force from something already inside your own body affecting you. And every single pregnancy, every single one, causes trauma and blood loss. Even rapes in general are less dangerous than pregnancy.
I view a fetus as a person who has equal rights to defence against someone trying to attack and destroy it's body. This has nothing to do with right to retreat which varies from state to state. Unless you were raped you already have the choice to prevent a fetus "tresspassing" on your body. If you willingly have sex you are inviting that person into your body and forcing them to become dependant on it.
This would make sense if the woman was crawling inside the fetus. That's not what happens when a pregnancy occurs u/Spiwolf7. This is why I said google it. Even the state with the most strict duty to retreat laws, never requires a person to retreat from someone or something affecting their immediate body. Please double check this. According to your logic therefore, continuous consent is a myth. It's not. It's real. That's why just because I'm having sex, doesn't mean I can't say "no" at some point during sex. Also once again, zygotes BURROW ON THEIR OWN into the lining of the uterus. Do you know how fertilization works? sperm is ejaculated. Is sex consent to be ejaculated in? By your logic it is apparently, because if you chose to do sex that means you chose to everything about it right? sperm travels up the vagina into the cervix and fertilizes an egg. The fertilized egg, or zygote, travels up the uterus and burrows into the lining of the uterus. It either succeeds or fails. 70% of fertilized eggs fail doing this. So, I want to hear how sex is consent for a fertilized zygote to be inside my uterus. Why? Is sex consent to have someone pull my hair? Is walking on the sidewalk consent for me to be groped? Is letting someone in my house consent for them to touch my breast? No, you are not. There is ZERO coercion or force. Force is a CRIME. Coercion is the term I think you are looking for, and criminal coercion is a CRIME. A specific one at that. Sex is NOT some kind of coercive fetal endangerment or forcing. It is a LEGAL CONSENTUAL ACTIVITY for which you have the right to say no to ANY PART OF IT, and ANY RISK OF IT. And a zygote BURROWING ON IT'S OWN INTO THE UTERUS is A RISK OF IT. Just like if I go into a swamp I have a risk of being bitten by a mosquito. Not only that, you cannot compare people's bodies to houses. There is no kind of "squatters right" that ANY PERSON has to ANYONES BODY. If you "invite" or "throw a party" on YOUR BODY, which has a risk of someone using you in a way you don't like, you always have the right to say NO at ANY TIME. Even to a zygote. The "innocence" of a zygote has no bearing on the fact it ACTS ON ITS OWN when it burrows into the uterus.
So much capslocks you must be right! 😊 I do know how sex works thank you. You don't have to talk down to me like I a kid just because we disagree on something. Also I just said duty to retreat varies, I don't need to Google it. Besides this law doesn't apply in other countries so it's not a great basis for your argument. Laws come and go, they should never shape your personal morality just because they are laws. Your example of the "party" is false equivalency anyways so don't use this argument if you want to advocate bodily autonomy fairly and logically. Going by that if you don't want to have someone "tresspassing" on your body, don't create them and force them to live there just to have them destroyed.
Capslock doesn't always mean anger - it means emphasis. Easier to type than to do four *s around every word. You do need to google it. No state, no matter what the state is, has an impossible duty to retreat required for anyone. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duty_to_retreat Quote: So yeah, sure, you googled it. Explain to me why most of the developed world then, allows abortion, except for a very very few. Thing is I think you are just doing an appeal to ignorance rather than standing on your own intellectual rigor. So, secular, case based, scientifically approached, logical laws are moot compared to what ethics? Religion? Mythological beliefs? Because u/Spiwolf7 says so? What exactly about the common definitions which bound justified homicide as they are do you wish to posit a change to? I think this is an appeal to ignorance fallacy but I'm not sure. Basically you are saying "well it could change" therefore "shrug" I guess you don't have to present any other form of argument? Says you. Define force. Use of force on a person is a crime. Is sex a crime? The biological facts of pregnancy don't even agree with you on this. Zygotes travel ON THEIR OWN into the uterus. Or else there isn't a pregnancy. There is absolutely no kidnapping or force that you could possibly argue. My analogy still stands, perfectly. It's like you throw a party and someone who you did not invite, touches you without consent.
No, your anogy does not hold because the fetus has never chosen to "intrude", they were forced there and have no other options. It's not the same as someone flat out deciding to not leave your property when they understand you want them gone. This is a bad comparison to argue from (Economically) developed countries support abortion because it is cheaper long run and anything that saves a buck down the line must be the right thing to do. Also it these countries tend to put the feelings of the individual over the actual right to the many. That is arguing from an emotional stand point.
No, they weren't. You cannot force a zygote to implant in the lining of the uterus. It is physically impossible. I am guessing you did not know about the facts of pregnancy at all before you started this conversation. https://embryo.asu.edu/pages/process-implantation-embryos-primates Nor do you know what forcing is even, from a legal, secular fact based standpoint. Everything else you say after that makes zero sense to me, it's like you're arguing against someone who isn't even here, against statements I can only guess at.
There you go again talking down to me like I'm a child. 🤗 I am a 30 year old woman thank you and I know full well how pregnancy works I don't need a Wikipedia link on primate impregnation. It is force since the baby never asked to be created, it was literally forced to be created just like you and I were. I don't remember signing up to be alive because else made that decision for me. When someone else makes a decision about your existance without your input that is force. Unless you were raped, or you literally don't know you can get pregnant from sex then you are consciously taking the risk of getting pregnant and forcing someone to be created.



Unlike Nancy Reagan, Barbara Bush was pro-choice and supported children with HIV/AIDS. I liked her. I fucking hated Nancy Reagan.
While there are certainly vehemently anti-abortion women out there, I tend to find that a not-insignificant number of Republican's wives take a bit of a softer stance on the matter than their husbands.


But of course
Whenever people say that people have the right to their homelands, I think of this: (may be nsfw) https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=u5OlBT2OcGg
Good to get both perspectives  (Just to be clear. I do not support this woman or her beliefs at all.)
Ugh, they're propagating that lie in the comments about PP founder Margaret Sanger being a racist. That's a huge warning sign that a pro-lifer whom you're talking to is lazy when it comes to research. In ten seconds, you could Google the things Sanger really did, or said. Or you could keep repeating talking points put forward by Ben Carson or Ted Cruz, and delude yoself into thinking that's enough to be well-informed! 🙄
What? The post I linked said nothing about that
No, not the post itself -- the comments below it. I'm glad you shared the post, I agree with what you said about perspective.
Cheers
Keep in mind that Richard Spencer is openly pro-choice. So it's not exactly a strong argument to vilify an entire movement on the basis of one member who subscribes to white nationalism.
Richard Spencer is no longer the leader of the Alt-Right movement, and as you can tell just by the comments, the majority of his followers disagree with him on this issue.
That doesn't mean that he's no longer a white supremacist. My entire point is not to make generalizations about a movement based on one member's beliefs about a completely different subject. To do otherwise is just intellectually lazy.
Preface: of course personally if I was getting an abortion I'd much prefer to get in earlier rather than late.My reasons for being pro choice are that even though foetus may be a person, that person still doesn't have any right to the body of another person. I don't believe there is a cut off point during pregnancy when abortion is wrong, I believe the Thomson moral theory.Am I wrong in thinking this? I'm not advocating that abortions should all take place in late stage but I think if a women decides to have one in late stage it is still permissible because it's her body.
"...even though foetus may be a person, that person still doesn't have any right to the body of another person." Agreed. It's not preferable, but it should be optional. Nowhere in US law is any person allowed to demand the use of another female human's flesh, blood and body. Even if the fetus desperately requires a transplant, and the only individual who can provide the needed organ, blood, etc., is the male parent, that parent is not required by law to submit to the transplant. But the female parent IS required to submit her body to keep the fetus alive. And, incidentally, those laws restricting or prohibiting abortion were put into practice primarily by males. Those who don't play the game certainly do enjoy making the rules.
I agree, late-term abortions are rare and are typically done on pregnancies with severe complications or fetal abnormality or for the life or health of the woman. Women aren’t waiting 8 months and then deciding they don’t want to be pregnant, pregnancy is difficult and painful. It should be completely up to the individual woman and her doctor, they are the ones that know what is best for her and her situation.
I have a hard time understanding what the scenario would be of a woman 8 months pregnant with a healthy fetus that suddenly decided to abort. To me the whole purpose of abortion is to avoid 8 months of pregnancy pain and discomfort. If you reach that point, the "why not just adopt?" argument has more validity. That being said, I do agree that it's not up to politicians to decide. It should be between a woman and her doctor.
Have you heard of the case Mcall v Shrimp? The case ruled that its not permissible for another person to be forced donate part of their body to save another’s life https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/McFall_v._Shimp
Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/McFall_v._Shimp HelperBot v1.1 /r/HelperBot_ I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 172222
Does that court case have any bearing, legally, on deliberations regarding abortion?  I really don't know how the judicial system works- has McFall v. Shimp been brought up in abortion-related cases since its ruling?  The Wikipedia has some links, but they seem primarily to relate to C-sections as far as I can tell.
You're not donating any part of your body during pregnancy.  Mother and child don't even share blood.
I agree. At very, very late stages, if the fetus is healthy, it may be best to induce an early birth without first stopping the fetal heart (as is done in late term abortions for fetal abnormality). But the woman should always have the right to end the pregnancy when they choose. To me, the viability argument is just crazy. The point at which a fetus stops needing its host to survive is the point at which it gets the right to use her? Makes no sense at all Legally, I advocate the total decriminalisation of abortion, removing all legal time limits. Doctors and patients are the people who should be making decisions about ending a pregnancy in its late stages, not politicians.
I always argue this too. If it's viable, great, it can keep itself alive now and the pregnancy can be terminated (via birth).
If a woman no longer wants to be pregnant for any reason, but the fetus could live on its own, I don’t think the fetus should be killed. Induce labor or have a C section and then give the baby to the state. I would not want a 25 week fetus to be aborted in the typical use of the term if it was perfectly healthy. Not sure if that’s what you meant OP.
This is my line too. If the foetus still requires another person's body to live, it doesn't have a right to that body should the consent of that person be revoked, therefore up to viability is where I would ideally place the /legal/ line. I think most people would be willing to wait a few weeks, if that wasn't going to be unusually strenuous, but that should not be a legal requirement.
If the fetus is viable, wouldn’t simple removal of the baby from the uterus without killing it suffice? The woman’s body is no longer being used and the baby may live
Drawing the legal line at birth makes the most sense to me too.
I'm a bot, bleep, bloop. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit: [/r/prolife] I have no words.  If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads. (Info / ^Contact)
If you invite someone into your home, and they get hurt through some fault of yours, and you then wish them to leave, maybe so your insurance premiums won't go up because of their injury, but they can't, do you have the right to kill them to remove them from your home?
That sounds like an argument for abortion up until viability, not birth. Or are you just referring to any termination of a pregnancy as "abortion" regardless of whether or not the fetus survives?
You’re not “wrong”, but I personally would disagree on what standard we should have legally. I think the current standing legal regulations are appropriate for women who want to terminate a pregnancy, but that standard also isn’t objective in itself just because a government gives backing to it.

And then when I say, as someone whose mother was guilted out of having an abortion and who was physically abused in childhood, that I would vastly prefer to have been aborted and that I'm angry at their movement for forcing me into the world, they say "well you're damaged by your childhood so your opinion doesn't count." Who exactly do they think they're benefiting? Because it's not the kids they "save."

I am from the opposite spectrum on this. I was born to a crack-head prostitute who couldn't take care of me. I was finally adopted at the age of 5 and I I'm now graduated University and own my own house. I am so grateful for the chance to live even if my first few years weren't so great. All people deserve at least a chance to make their own lives.
I concur. Fifth child and (lowly inferior girl) unwanted, emotionally abused my whole life. Abortion would have been an act of charity.
Why don't you commit suicide then?
Committing suicide is not the same as having been aborted before birth. They have already suffered- as plenty of people have as a result of people like you- and the option to die now doesn't change that. Also what happened to being "pro-life?" Why do you care more about a cluster of cells the size of my fingernail than you do an actual person? You seem like the quintessential anti-abortion person- in that you actually care about subjugating women than you do about abortion.
No I'm just saying he's complaining too much. It's like those people who are mad they got treated in the emergency room. Like, just kill yourself or shut up. I don't wan't him to kill himself, I'm just pointing out how stupid the complaint is.
You are childish and petty. Somebody that's been abused is allowed to complain as much as they want. If you don't like it then why don't you find a subreddit that won't get you so triggered you need to harass people. It's a perfectly valid complaint to wish your parents had been able to care for you and it illustrates how stopping women from accessing reproductive care is bad for everybody involved. If that's too much for you to handle without getting pissy then I'd suggest you find a safer space for yourself.
It will hurt and most suicide attempts are not successful. I have no access to firearms or reliably lethal drugs, and most tall buildings make it pretty hard for you to access the outside to jump off at a level guaranteed to kill. I don't own a car and can't hire one due to lack of license, plus cars are designed to save your life in a crash anyway. I could stand on train tracks, but that would traumatize the driver. Bleeding out from a knife wound is slow. All these methods carry a risk of waking up in hospital with serious disabilities. Trust me, I've put a lot of thought into this.
I'm sorry for what happened to you, however you don't speak for everyone. Not all who were abused wish they had been aborted. We deserve to live our own lives and at least get a chance to find our happiness.

Tbf, there are plenty of pro-life people very much in favor of those programs.
The pro-life contingent really came out of the woodwork once the Republicans made sure social support programs were defunded and their tax dollars were safe from "charity-dependent leeches". Just get that precious fetus to term, and once it's born they can forget about it. 'Fraid not, religious snowflakes. When you prohibit abortions you assume responsibility for the lives you've "saved". And in America, that means financial responsibility. So, anti-abortionists, let's hear from everyone willing to dedicate a few cents out of every tax dollar for all those precious babies you've forced women to carry to term.... [....sound of crickets chirping] Yeah, that's about what I thought.
I don't think opposing an existing practice necessarily requires also advocating for a smooth and gentle transition away from the practice. For example, I don't necessarily fault Lincoln for not compensating all slave owners for their emancipated slaves.
Baffled about the "smooth and gentle transition"... no clue how that applies. And demanding a woman submit her body's blood and tissue/flesh to use by another against her will sounds close to slavery.
If I understood you correctly, you were making the point that suddenly prohibiting abortion would result in a financial deficit from increased childbirth, and you criticized pro-lifers for not providing a solution to that deficit as part of their platform. My response to this, which does not imply support of the pro-life platform, is that I don't think they are necessarily obligated to solve that financial deficit (although of course it would be a nice thing for them to do), for the same reason I don't hold Lincoln to a similar obligation in the example I gave. I support what Lincoln did, even though it had huge financial impact in the South. I think it was worth it. I imagine pro-lifers also think it would be worth suffering a similar impact to prohibit abortion.
My point is that NOBODY makes a decision affecting my body but ME!! Especially when what I decide to do with my body is LEGAL and permitted by law. The pro-life position discriminates against women by forcing them to donate their flesh and blood (and uterus) to keep another "potential human" alive. No man in the US is forced by law to donate their flesh and blood to another, no matter what the reason. Just women.
Good example of uncharitable and unproductive discourse. Pro-Choice: Oho! So you're in favor of abusing children? Pro-Life: Oho! So you're in favor of killing children?
This is pretty much how almost all pro-life and pro-choice discussions go.
Exactly. It's very hard to have productive discourse, when both sides sit screaming insults at each other.
This is so true.
Considering we have such a high infant mortality death rate in the US... it seems odd not to care about that more. Hm.
We have a high infant mortality rate in the US? I knew we had a high Maternal Mortality rate, and lots of women become severely ill/injured/traumatized because of pregnancy/childbirth/maybe even parenting.
Yes I live in an area where is it is high, but we have the one of the best child's hospital in the country.
I don't like it. I think that people who have been abused or are likely to be abused are still, y'know, people. I'm not calling it an invalid argument(though IMO the argument could be put in a better way than the picture describes), because abuse of children is definitely an issue that deserves to be talked about, but  I [personally] don't think it addresses the pro-life argument well.
...Okay? Not really sure what your point is because I'm pretty sure no one is saying abuse victims aren't people.
You misunderstood me. Prolife believes that it is exactly a person, who is alive, has rights, has value=and should not be killed. The argument here takes an extra step in assuming prolifers would rather see an abused child. Of course no one wants a child harmed. I have never met a pro life person who disagreed with the potential for working on improving the foster care system or the adoption system/child's wellbeing. If you have, I apologize :( that is a very gloomy and disturbing interpretation of prolife.

Limiting bodily autonomy does not imply that the limited person is less of a human person. We limit bodily autonomy all the time, in fact. There are thousands of ways we limit bodily autonomy when such autonomy hurts other people. This is a long settled moral principle, unquestioned in nearly any other context: your right to do as you please with your body is trumped by an innocent bystander's right to not be harmed by you. This is why the debate is, was, and always will be about one thing, and one thing only: is a fetus a human person? The original screenshot is proposing that abortion is a preferable alternative to child abuse, and that since the opponent does not see abortion as a viable option, she must be pro-child abuse. I dislike the "well if you don't think X you must think Y, and since everyone knows Y is a "bad" position to hold, everyone knows you're all just in favour of punishing the mother" argument. I mean if people asking these questions ever thought about it, they'd realise that only the most sadistic person on Earth could say they liked child abuse.
No, a fetus is not a human person. It is human, but it is not a person. You're misunderstanding my position in the original post. Just because there are people who have survived child abuse doesn't mean that you should be FORCED to carry a pregnancy to term. I would rather a potential baby not be carried to term if it meant that it would have to suffer for years being unloved and abused or living in poverty because to a lot of people, myself included, living through a good portion of your life abused is NOT preferable. People seem to forget that it's not just "children are hit but they can get over it because hope and love uwu". You can suffer from many mental/psychological illnesses and disorders and it's Hell, and many people do. I wasn't saying that person was pro-child abuse because they're anti-abortion. I'm saying because they, the user "she-is-human-too" inferred that abortion is worse than child abuse because the potential life is dead, and victims provide some inspirational bullshit about being an abuse survivor and because SIDT got through it unscathed that means that other people can too.
*human organism The personhood thing is a topic for debate, though, and I don't intend to turn this thread into a debate thread. There's r/abortiondebate for that. But I do want to clear up some misconceptions: I apologize, then, the title kind of threw me off track. It seemed an unproductive and inflammatory response at the time. In fact if you recall my original comment was simply expressing how the post seems to have a misunderstanding with why people are pro-life. I never expressed a more deeper response until another poster commented about bodily autonomy. Yet you and I both agree that infanticide(and I'm not throwing around terms here, I'm speaking about the actual definition) is not an acceptable solution to the child being abused. For me, personally, a pro-choice person suggesting abortion often seems calculated, because they don't really consider adoption a potentially good option. I don't think that parenthood is the right solution for unwanted pregnancy for everybody, so I view adoption as a possible good alternative when parenthood isn't the right fit. I am going to assume that when you said that, you meant the general or hypothetical "people" for the sake of conversation. Since you don't know me, and I agree that there should be more mental help available, that we shouldn't tell those suffering from problems to take some "medicine" and that we should make effort to prevent abuse. I have also been abused when I was younger, so I know it isn't something you "get over" with flowers and sunshine.
Here's a sneak peek of /r/Abortiondebate using the top posts of the year! #1: Meet the women and men waging war against the Polish government over abortion | 2 comments#2: What might society look like with more children resulting from unplanned pregnancies?#3: Let’s say abortion were to be made illegal in the U.S. What should/would the legal consequences be? I'm a bot, beep boop | Downvote to remove | Contact ^^me | ^^Info | ^^Opt-out
How noble of this person to declare that adults  and children with nothing whom live at the behest of others, simply have hope. Hope for change! Hope for help! Hope for a living wage! What was that anti-Obama bumper sticker? "You can keep your hopey changey thing"
How come no pro lifer ever offers just compensation for the trauma and pain, disability and recovery and sometimes permanent disability and (rarer) death of labor and birth? Its almost like they have no respect for the sacrifice of creating life that mothers give and no respect for the reality that the dinner plate sized wound of placental detachment is and etc.... They'd rather save all their respect for the veterans paid to bomb children to death with bombs. I have never ever once heard a pro-lifer offer just compensation to women forced to give birth.
I agree with you entirely. As we all know, most pro-lifers aren't big on much past birth, for the woman or the child.
I'm pro life and I briefly considered this option. If it was a flat rate, what do you think it should be? Tho, I don't think it's realistic given the number of abortions per year (750,000 ish) and the number of normal births per year (4 million). Would only abortion seeking women be qualified for the payout, and if so, wouldn't everyone claim they're seeking one for the payout? But if this payout was set, would you support limiting or eliminating abortions?
What do they provide veterans when they are wounded, need recovery and/or who are disabled or die?
Do you think volunteering for the military is the same as accidentally getting pregnant?
Nope, but making peoples private bodies the public domain for a cause not their own, when they are not criminals, is. And that is what you would do if you force them to give birth against their will. I.e. make their bodies the jurisdiction and use of the government, and force them to bleed for that cause.
I was abused as a child, but I'm much happier to be alive now.

I feel like in the abortion debate people often ignore overpopulation. We have seven billion people on Earth, and we're only growing. It is very clear that this has a negative effect on the Earth. There are literally islands of garbage, and places that are so filled with houses that you can't see any green (click the link below for photos with more examples, it's really crazy). Why are we concerned about abortion when population control is the key? If people want kids, have them, but why be worried about one person wanting an abortion when we have seven billion people killing the planet already? We waste so much time being worried about abortion when we're fucking up our own  planet beyond repair. Once the world gets ruined, that's it, we're fucked. Why are we worried about unborn children when we are ruining the planet for children who have already been born?https://www.boredpanda.com/environmental-pollution-overdevelopment-overpopulation-overshoot-global-population-speakout/
Anti-abortion folks are going to read (or at least react as if they read) your proposition the same way as if you'd advocated for culling toddlers and old folks alike; their whole raison d'etre is that the embryo and the adult are morally equivalent.  Hence almost nothing- including population concerns- qualifying as a justification for abortion in their eyes. Also, for what it's worth, when it comes to working with our population and resources, much more important for me is the issue of overconsumption.
Overconsumption is a huge problem, too! It just feels like nobody is talking about it. I've heard so many debates about abortion or immigration and all this stuff that doesn't even matter if people are still abusing the world the same way we have been for years. All of these things should be talked about, but they're being drowned out by people who are more worried about smaller problems when everyone should be working together to stop each other from ruining the one home that we have.
I agree with you. Man really is the worst animal.
One look at world population growth during the past 5,000 years is all it takes to understand what's coming... a slow but steady increase up to the invention of antibiotics and factory farming, then BOOM!! The number of humans skyrockets. Earth can't sustain a growth rate like that. Other essential species are being threatened and exterminated due to habitat loss and poaching, our pollinators are being decimated thanks to pesticides, but we're insisting "every sperm is sacred" and overfilling the planet with more and more of us. I will respect the opinions of the anti-abortion crowd on the day they offer free birth control to everyone. Until then, their insistence that abortion is "murder" is nothing more than hot air. Our only home, this beautiful Earth, does not need more humans. Hell, it can't sustain the humans it does have right now! Men may insist on their religious right to procreate, but when the women are asked for their opinion we hear a much different answer. As usual, the ones who do the least are the ones who make the decisions.
thank you, thank you, thank you. This is my major point whenever I discuss abortion with someone. And it is astonishing how many people choose to gloss-over or completely ignore this glaring fact. Like ignoring it will somehow make it not real.
Hi people! I'm pro life and I've been reading a couple threads where some pro choice people seem to support decriminalizing infanticide (like literal born babies, I'm not trying to be coy and call abortions infanticide). I assume it's a minority of you guys that think this way, but I was wondering what you all think. Do you agree, disagree? Do you think it negatively effects the way your movement is perceived? How common do you think that idea is?
I assume you mean me. I explicitly said infanticide should be illegal, I just don't think it's as serious a crime as murder. See, it's right there in the screenshot: https://www.reddit.com/r/prolife/comments/8ci7jk/yeah_dont_go_to_the_pro_choice_subreddit/
Yeah, it's you! I didn't want to explicitly call you out by screenname. I hadn't seen that other post with the screen shot, I read it on the post I linked. And I know that's what you said, that's why I said "decriminalize" and I also quoted you directly on a comment in this thread
Are you confused about the meaning of the word decriminalise?
"to remove or reduce the criminal classification or status of; especially : to repeal a strict ban on while keeping under some form of regulation"
That's an unusual definition, where did you find it? https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/decriminalize https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/decriminalize
https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/decriminalize
No.. We don't support Infanticide. It was just one post that was taken out of context. Maybe we should talk about how some people in your subreddit support the death penalty for women that get abortions or how you guys support showing graphic dishonest and false images to people
What does a baby after a 1st trimester abortion look like?
Due to the fact that responsibility of the baby is not forced upon the mother after birth, infanticide seems unnecessary. Support for the idea definitely hurts the argument IMO. Most people are not capable of being objective when it comes to topics like abortion due to their own personal morality, even those on the pro-choice side. I would say the majority of pro-choicers view abortion as a necessary evil, rather than something that is simply not “wrong” at all. I’d even go so far as to say that those who support infanticide probably only do so on a theoretical level. In practice, however, killing a baby, especially our own, goes against our biology. Indigenous cultures that engage in this activity only do so when conditions are not plentiful enough to support a new child and would risk the health and livelihood of their pre-existing children and perhaps even the tribe itself.
One person posts here saying that it's a thing. It is not the case that every poster on /r/prochoice represents the views of /r/prochoice.
Yeah, that's why I said it's a minority opinion. I was just curious about what you guys thought, and if other people shared that view
A couple of threads?  Or just that one you posted a link to?
One that I linked to, and one that I remember from a few weeks ago. It just made me curious, I'm not trying to say it's a common thought or anything
Nah, I don't really think it reflects negatively on our movement, given how it's not representative in any way (I take ownership of a lot of what I think are bad pro-choice opinions, but those are ones espoused by prominent activists, movement leaders, or a significant number of people sharing the same view).
So basically... you mean by some people a single poster? Furthermore, it seems like you took the post out of context?
It was either one poster twice, or two posters. I said it was a minority, I'm just curious what you guys thought about the topic. I don't think I misrepresented them, I'll have to go re read the thread, but I quoted them directly. Do you think there's a context in which that quote would be okay?
I support infanticide being legal (in the absence of anyone willing to adopt), because the person isn't the human organism itself, the person is the software in the brain, and a newborn brain doesn't contain any computation complex enough (and so there is no person in that brain). I'd put the boundary at maybe 1.5-2 years, at that point, the software is complex enough for me to feel uncomfortable with someone destroying it. The key insight necessary to understand this is that people aren't identical to organisms. Edit: Slightly rephrased to increase comprehensibility.
Computational theory of mind In philosophy, a computational theory of mind names a view that the human mind or the human brain (or both) is an information processing system and that thinking is a form of computing. The theory was proposed in its modern form by Hilary Putnam in 1961, and developed by the MIT philosopher and cognitive scientist Jerry Fodor (who was Putnam's PhD student) in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. Despite being vigorously disputed in analytic philosophy in the 1990s (due to work by Putnam himself, John Searle, and others), the view is common in modern cognitive psychology and is presumed by many theorists of evolutionary psychology; in the 2000s and 2010s the view has resurfaced in analytic philosophy (Scheutz 2003, Edelman 2008). The computational theory of mind holds that the mind is a computation that arises from the brain acting as a computing machine. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
Does that mean if we create complex enough robots then you would want to make it illegal to kill them to?
Complexity isn't enough to be a person. You need self-awareness, intelligence and a sufficient psychological similarity to us. Since people are computations, the material of the hardware doesn't matter - if you had an intelligent, conscious AI, it wouldn't get any additional moral value by turning its hardware into meat.
Can you link some of these threads?
Sure, I've only seen two comments so far. One was recent, the other was a few weeks ago. The recent one I can link. This is the quote from the recent post "I don't regard infanticide as murder. It should be illegal, as killing a born child provides no medical benefits like abortion does, but I think it's ridiculous to have custodial sentences for it. A fine and ban on having future children or practicing in certain areas of medicine would be entirely adequate." https://www.reddit.com/r/prochoice/comments/8c7sew/abortion_is_not_murder/?utm_source=reddit-android
I'm not trying to witch hunt the person who said it or anything, I'm just curious what the rest of you think of it
As someone just passing through.  This manages to sounds as or even more logically absurd than "life begins at conception". Is it typical that some passerby ass just pops in, yells, "viability is an objectively reasonable metric" and then leaves?  Cause that wasn't my intention, but...
I've seen like 3 people state infanticide should be legal or is anything less than cold blooded murder. So no, it's not a common viewpoint. I don't agree with infanticide at all. I can sometimes be empathetic toward the person who did it, much like I can empathize with other types of murderers in certain circumstances. But I don't believe it should go without punishment or that it isn't tragic or horrible.
I’m military and currently stationed in South Korea. I found out that I’m pregnant and I just can’t keep the baby. I can’t be pregnant due and I don’t want the baby. I want to get an abortion but it’s illegal here in South Korea. I understand I made a mistake and have to live with the consequences but I need help.
Hello! I think r/abortion would be able to help you better with this issue. As this subreddit is mainly for news, arguments, discussions, debates and resources on the pro choice perspective. Also please let I or any of the moderators know if any pro-lifer harasses you through the PMs.
Try Women on web
Is there anyway you could call a planned Parenthood or something of the like and ask them to walk you through a self abortion? I'm sure someone would have the ability to help you especially given your situation.
Uh, what do you mean by self-abortion? I’m pretty sure no legit medical provider will walk someone through a potentially dangerous procedure that could lead to the person dying from not having access to proper medical care. Second, they wouldn’t do it over the phone. It would first sound like a set up by the crazies who want to record a Planned Parenthood worker telling some innocent teen to self abort or something. Also, the provider would be liable for state laws and without examining her, they have no idea how far along she is. Also, how would they even know how to walk someone through a self abortion? It isn’t something they train in medical school for since they have safe, legit procedures they would use. I also do not recommmend getting abortion pills online since you could run into breaking multiple laws and risk taking fake medication. Other self help methods are potentially very dangerous and toxic so i don’t recommend doing an abortion self-help way. My advice is to try and get stateside or to another country to try and have an abortion legally.
If a person can get access to misoprostol, one of the FDA-approved medications that OB/GYN's use all the time for legal abortions, then they most certainly can remotely walk someone through how to take it- that's basically what the folks at Women on Web do.  There's been a study done on illegal abortion pills ordered online, and it found that they did in fact contain what they said they did, at an effective amount/potency- but none had any instructions with them.  There's a whole Berkeley legal team devoted to helping women navigate self-induced abortion and defending those who come under prosecution for doing so. Is it ideal?  No, I don't think it's ever ideal for someone to be forced to order medication that is not regulated or guaranteed from dubious sources, to take without necessarily knowing for sure one's gestational age or ruling out ectopic pregnancy.  But we can't have the ideal, because countries have made safe, legal abortion impossible (also, our government still refuses to let its military service members get full access to reproductive healthcare).  In this scenario, if getting to another country isn't feasible, then self-induced abortion may well be the next best thing.
Good luck!
Women on web. They send abortion pills via mail to women in countries where abortion is illegal. Also, some say that taking certain herbs can induce a miscarriage. Google Sister Zeus if you want more information pertaining to that. Good luck x


Nobody loves killing children and abortion isn't murder.




If you look at his comment history you'll see he's just a very low effort shitty troll.  Right away you'll see he jokes about abortion to a woman that already has children and in another comment calls babies worthless things that shit all day.  🙄
[removed]
Frankly, if I had been aborted, not only would I not have been cognizant of it as almost all abortions are performed early in a pregnancy (ones performed later are done due to severe birth defects where a fetus would not survive after birth, when a fetus has died in utero, a woman is having a miscarriage and her life is at risk, etc., not because a woman decided to abort at that point). Also I think it's good that had my mother decided to abort, she would have legal and safe access to abortion. As to what a fetus could be if it's born, it could be a good person. It could also be a horrible person who commits a massive atrocity. It's unknown. Your appeals to emotion are absurd and huge logical fallacies.
My appeal to my right to exist is absurd to you?
You're a ridiculous troll. I did not say that. Do not put words in my mouth. I said your arguments are appeals to emotion which is a form of a logical fallacy. Calling you a troll could be considered a strawman if it weren't true. Look up logical fallacies, Google will inform you. I'm done bothering with you.


I'm pro life, and I always try and refrain from using words like "murder" or "baby" and instead say "abortion" and "fetus". They're similar, but it's an exaggeration to say they are the same. If I can't get my point across without being hyperbolic, I wouldn't really have a good point to begin with.
This is such a wise statement. I feel the same way about name-calling in this debate, too. It gets a bit ridiculous sometimes. I came up against it a few times in the pro-life sub, being called "pro-murder" and the like. I mean, there's nothing better than calling someone a "genocidist" to get a conversation off to a good start, lol. And for me, the same goes for "anti-choice", "anti-women", etc. I'm sure there are a few pro-lifers out there who view anti-abortion legislation as a positive because it obligates women to fulfill their traditional roles as mothers... but I know for the vast majority of pro-lifers, the issue isn't primarily about personal choice or freedom -- it's about life or death. So even if I disagree, it's still the "pro-life" movement, because it helps to acknowledge how the other side sees the issue.
The only reason I don't feel like they're pro-life is because they usually don't prioritize other elements that are important for keeping people alive (food, shelter, healthcare, etc).  I think it's fair to call them pro-birth.
Yeah, I'm a democrat, so I'm so confused about why my pro life side doesn't want to help with more social programs. I think it said 70 percent or more of abortions are because of financial reasons, well then we should help them out! And the ones who are anti-contraceptives are even crazier.

I'm a pro-lifer, and yes, this is a fair representation of what we believe.  I personally am against many social programs because I think they trap people in poverty.
Would there be any compromise you'd be willing to make in regards to social programs if it meant saving lives by lessening abortions?
If it could be demonstrated that the proposed programs really would have a positive effect, absolutely.
Well good! We agree it might not be the ideal solution, but a little good is better than nothing!
I read a bit of your post history.  You seem like a pretty reasonable person.  I did see this comment And I want to clarify, do you think they both have equal rights to the mother's body?
Well thanks! I think they both have equal rights to life. But if you're talking about body autonomy, like they mention in the article, I believe the right to life supersedes body autonomy in this case. The fact that the woman is the mother and the fetus is her child is key. The comparison comes up that it's legal to kill an intruder in your house if you don't want them there so you should be able to do the same with your body. But that's not the case when it's a parent/child relationship. We have laws like child neglect and child endangerment that dictate the actions you can take, I just believe those should be applied to the fetus as well.
What laws oblige a mother to use her organs to keep her child from dying? Under what circumstances would she be legally obligated to allow her child access to the inside of her body, or even just to her body at all? Does a person's right to life ever mean they can consume/use another person's body without their consent?
In my opinion, in the circumstance of a fetus, it absolutely does. The fetus is not attacking the mother or maliciously stealing from her, it's just basically asleep. The fetus was put in that situation without it's consent. An analogy I like to use is it's like you live on a boat. Before leaving shore, you find a sleeping a girl and put her on your boat and take her out to the middle of the ocean. She sleepwalks and takes a little bit of your food once in a while, but she's asleep so you can't really get mad at her and you have enough still. It's cramped and uncomfortable having her there, you wish she wasn't there, But you aren't in danger or anything. Would it be moral to one day throw her off the boat, knowing she would drown? Obviously that's an oversimplification, and sometimes pregnancies have major complications. Any way, I grant you it's tough to think of legal precedent that mimics the situation of being pregnant because it's a unique situation. That's why most prolifers rely on moral arguments instead of legal ones. Setting aside for a moment about what should or shouldn't be legal or punishable or anything like that, do you think it is moral for a person to have an abortion? And I'm not talking about in a religious way, I'm not religious at all. I'm just talking about is it morally justifiable to have an average abortion?  (consensual sex, no danger to the mother)
Most pregnancies have some complications, and all of them end in either major abdominal surgery or pushing a baby out of a vagina.  The fetus may not be intending to threaten the mother, but it absolutely does.  If you knew that the sleep walking girl would put you in the hospital for a couple of days with injuries that take months if not years to fully recover from, it would be permissible to  protect yourself.  The unethical/illegal part is putting her on your boat without her consent.  I guess there's debate to be had about the ethics of creating a person non-consensually, but that's separate from abortion. Pro-life vs pro-choice is fundamentally a question of legality.  Should abortion be legal or not.  Pro-lifers who only rely on moral arguments should be welcome to decide their own morals while also acknowledging that no one's personal morals dictate the law for everyone else.  I'm a vegetarian.  I definitely try to tell other people about my personal meat eating ethics.  However, even I think it would be a huge overstep to make meat eating illegal. Yes, I think most abortions are perfectly ethical.  All pregnancies are riskier than abortions.  I don't think someone should be forced to take on that risk without consenting to it.  Risks aside, being pregnant is 9 months of sharing your body with a stranger.  It's horrifying to imagine forcing that kind of violation on someone.  No one has the right to be in someone else's body unconsensually under any conditions.
First off, you make very compelling points. But I think we differ on two main issues. I would argue that abortion violates universal morals, not just personal ones. That killing an innocent human is wrong. Second, when the death of an innocent human is ethical. You are saying that the pain of birth and the uncomfortableness of having your child inside your womb warrants the death of an innocent human. I would argue that the bar ought to be much higher, that it's unethical unless your life is at stake. (Sorry if that sounded preachy, me repeating that it's an innocent human. I just think it's important to consider the intent or maliciousness of a person if you plan to give them a death penalty)
What evidence do you have that this is true?  Let me offer some evidence that it's a matter of culture/religion/personal beliefs.  Specifically the question of personhood. Throughout history, churches have changed their point of view.  Medieval catholicism believed that ensoulment happened at quickening.  Evangelical teaching about abortion changed dramatically in the 1950's or so. Even today, Judaism teaches that the soul comes in when the baby takes a first breath (the breath of life). Attitudes about abortion vary a lot around the world.  In some cultures, current and historic, even newborns didn't count as people.  In some cultures babies aren't named until they're a year old. Look at how long we've been debating about abortion in the US.  There's obviously no consensus. In some cases yes, but not always.  If I kill someone by not donating the kidney they need to stay alive, is that wrong?  If someone is unintentionally threatening my life, would it be wrong to kill them to save myself? Let's talk about self-defense.  The bar is not life or death.  I have a right to defend myself from harm.  If someone threatens to chop off your fingers and the only way to stop them is to kill them, do you have to let them do it? Here's one example from a US court: "When a person has reasonable grounds for believing, and does in fact actually believe, that danger of his being killed, or of receiving great bodily harm, is immanent, he may act on such appearances and defend himself, even to the extent of taking human life when necessary" https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Right_of_self-defense There's an expectation that you use the least amount of force possible.  When protecting yourself from childbirth, is there any level of force possible besides killing?
Well personhood is difficult to pin point down, philosophically. But I've come to believe that a human is a person from conception, when new DNA is created. Everything after that is just growth. Every other benchmark seems arbitrary. When we can detect a heartbeat? -people live with pace makers, they're still Persons At viability outside the womb?  -people rely on respirators or machines to stay alive and wouldn't be viable without them, they are still Persons The consequences of people labeling humans as non-persons arbitrarily as it suited their needs is exactly how we got slavery. It's very important to get this right. What you are describing is a death resulting from a passiveness. An abortion is an action. Absolutely! If your life is in real danger from your pregnancy, I think you should be able to get an abortion. The fetus inside you is equal to you, not more valuable, not less. And about self defense, if you were to go to court for a regular case of self defense in which you used deadly force, they would evaluate the intent behind the "attacker" and the realistic amount of harm you were in danger of. Right?
http://blogs.plos.org/dnascience/2013/10/03/when-does-a-human-life-begins-17-timepoints/  Here are some alternatives.  And my personal belief isn't even on that list!  Which again points to the argument that abortion is a matter of personal beliefs/opinions, on which laws should not be made.  I can make an argument that animals are people.  Should we ban meat eating on that basis? What is the difference, morally?  I am actively choosing to not donate a kidney.  I am passively letting the doctor perform an abortion.  I see this passive vs active argument a lot and I really do not understand what point is being made. They do not evaluate intent.  Imagine this.  An unconscious person is swinging around on a rope.  They're headed straight for you and you know 100% for certain that if it hits you, you will suffer injuries that will put you in the hospital for days and take months-years to recover from.  There's a chance you might die.  You can choose to cut the rope (which will likely kill them) or let them hit you (and risk harm/death to yourself). Ask 20 people what they'd do and you'd likely see a mix of opinions.  But are you legally obligated to let them hit you?  No.  Should a woman be legally obligated to allow a fetus to burst from her body?  No.
Which would make conception the crime, not abortion. Giving birth is a clear and present danger to a womans life, most women choose to accept this risk, but it's a risk to life as much as running into a burning building to save someone's life is. Fun fact, a firefighter going on a call is doing something much less dangerous than a woman giving birth. You are never obligated to run into a burning building to save someone's life. If you're however the one who threw the person into the burning building, the throwing them into the burning building is a crime... independently whether you run in later to get them out. So if you're going to argue "The baby didn't consent" on this, that would make conception a crime because it's a crime to imprison someone in your body for 9 months without their consent.
u/DoctorButt808 Are you a proctologist?
Oh yeah, I'm a butt doctor by day, DoctorButt by night ;)
Even if you believe a fetus is a full person with the same human rights as an adult, abortion is a pretty straightforward case of self defense. If someone kidnapped you and threatened to inflict the kinds of injuries that childbirth routinely causes, no jury in the world would convict you if murder if you killed them to escape.
Assuming the fetus is a full person, it's still not justified. In that case you're killing a person before they've ever caused you harm (remember a lot of labors go flawlessly with little harm, some also may cause harm, there's no way of predicting such a thing). It's like me saying that i think my neighbor might try to harm me, so the solution is to kill him months before he can do or could do anything. The logic of your statement suggest abortion is only okay during labor, which is something very few pro-choicers agree with.
If someone enters your home with a gun, do you have to wait until they shoot you before you tackle them?
If a home invader has a gun, he is likely going to use it in the next few seconds. There is danger, there's a risk of immediate death, there's an active threat against your life in that moment. You're talking about killing a human being months before any harm could or could not be done (since abortions only occur up until 24 weeks, but women give birth at 9 months). See the distinction? You're not acting in self defense in that situation, you're acting with violence before any threat was actually made against your life.
The threat is there. The fact that it's not going to be carried out for 9 months (assuming you don't die of earlier pregnancy-related complications such as a blood clot) is irrelevant. Much better to get the pregnancy sorted out early. Let's say instead of a gun, the intruder has a syringe infected with a deadly disease that will take a few months to kill or maim you. Still reasonable to kill him to protect yourself.
Yes, but the harm isn't guaranteed. That intruder is injecting you with a disease that will 100% cause you to die in however many months. Some labors go flawlessly, some don't. Really it's a chance you'll get harmed. You might think any chance of harm is reason enough, but you're forgetting the intent here. A man with a deadly injection for example is aiming to harm you and kill you, he has bad intentions. A baby being born doesn't have any intentions of harming you, it's the mothers own body pushing the baby out that's causing the harm. The harm is a byproduct of the birth, it's passive. The baby isn't actively attempting to hurt anyone. Okay, say we accept your logic. So abortion is acceptable ten seconds before birth then? Anytime during the term it's acceptable?
95% of births involve genital tearing. It is physical torture, regardless of the risk of death, and you have the right to defend yourself against that. Intent is irrelevant. An intruder in your home may be suffering from a mental health condition that means he can't be found guilty, but that doesn't affect your right to self defense. I very strongly support the total decriminalisation of abortion. Although from a practical standpoint, I don't know how you'd carry out an abortion at 40 weeks other than by inducing labor.
I think you misunderstand Self Defense. Self Defense allows reasonable force against someone who's actively trying to harm you, killing isn't reasonable in this situation.  Of course intent matters! The baby has absolutely no option but to be delivered in some way. The baby is not deciding to harm the mother. A mentally ill person, while they may not be in control of their actions fully, is still making the active decision to harm, therefore permitting self defense. The baby isn't choosing anything, it's the mothers own bodily process that is pushing the baby out, causing harm to her body. And you're assuming labour, what about cesarean section? Anaesthetics are involved, no pain. It's a medical procedure. There's no harm being done. Self defense obviously isn't permissible here. Honestly I could argue about the whole intent thing, but you support abortion up until 9 months. There's no point arguing about intent, you agree it's a human yet you think it's fine to kill it. 10 seconds before birth, you support the killing of a baby. Totally viable outside the womb. What's so different about a baby ten seconds before and after? What if the abortion failed and the baby came out of the womb, do they just carry on and kill it? I won't say what i think because there's rules against it in this server, but i mean.. In your mind taking a knife to a baby ten seconds after birth is different to dismembering, crushing the spine and skull and sucking it out ten seconds before? Obviously abortions usually never happen that late so I'm unsure of the procedure, but it's likely similar to other methods we see earlier.
Casearian section has a much higher risk of death and other complications than vaginal birth. It's major surgery. You misunderstand self defense. It's legal even if the threat isn't deliberate. E.g. if a toddler is pointing a gun at you it's perfectly reasonable to take them out before they shoot you, even if they don't understand what they're doing. I don't regard infanticide as murder. It should be illegal, as killing a born child provides no medical benefits like abortion does, but I think it's ridiculous to have custodial sentences for it. A fine and ban on having future children or practicing in certain areas of medicine would be entirely adequate.
You're misunderstanding my point. The baby isn't physically doing anything, it just exists. The mother's own body is pushing it out, causing the harm. It's like if I pushed a child and they hit into somebody, is it the childs fault the person got hurt? Of course not. The child isn't at fault in that situation, it's the person pushing the child. The mother is pushing the child out, causing the tears. "I don't regard infanticide as murder." It's at this point your view isn't defensible at all. You're saying a child under 12 months' life isn't worth as much as anybody else? You're ranking humans, saying some are worth more than others, and ironically putting the most innocent people in society at the very bottom. A fine for killing an infant? Are you insane?

A fetus does not have a gun.
Lets be honest here...abortion is a procedure simply made to correct and fix an unwanted pregnancy.People aren't getting abortions if they want their children,people are having abortions because they don't want to be parents and that's understandable.Not every child is ought to be brought into this world...an unwanted child is going to have a bad childhood,whereas a wanted one is going to be loved.Women who go through unwanted pregnancies,are more likely to suffer from emotional problems,more likely to abuse substances(causing irreversible deformities to the fetus),are more likely to abandon their unwanted child into a foster care.Growing up in an orphanage,or jumping from foster care to foster care isn't life,its hardship.We're not talking about people who're reckless,or use abortions as a form of birth-control...we're talking about people who're careful,take contraceptions and the essential precautions to deter an unwanted pregnancy.But birth control and condoms fail and brake...those people,shouldn't be forced to go into 9 months of an excruciating pregnancy,that they cannot accomodate...they might be poor,about to break up or divorce,not ready up for parenthood...it simply counters their mistakes in an easy manner,by preventing suffering(both of the child and of the mothers).At least abortion in the first few weeks is perfectly moral...you can't tell me that a 4 weeks fetus for example is a life...in this state,its literally a clump of cells....while it has the potential to be life,it isn't and its actually more merciful to end a life before it begins.People should stop bringing politics and "bodily autonomy"arguments into the abortion debate...because both of those are a crock of shit...abortion isn't a political issue,its simply an essential procedure and its purpose is to correct,fix an unwanted pregnancy when needed,as it should be used as the last resort.Abortion wasn't created because of liberalism(and i say this as a progressive),or feminism and "bodily integrity" bullshit...it was simply made to erase an unwanted pregnancy...used only when essential,as the last resort,not as a form of birth-control...we should stop bringing political arguments into this debate and bring more realistic arguments,when we talk to pro-lifers.
People do get abortions for wanted pregnancies though— pretty much all “late” abortions are for wanted pregnancies where either something went wrong with the fetus or the woman’s health is in serious danger.
That's an entirely different issue there...those late term abortions,are essential because that's a life and death issue.
So do us a favor and say that instead of pretending it doesn't exist. Also many many early term abortions are also for wanted babies. Circumstances that change your options don't always happen late in the pregnancy.
This whole post seems like you are just getting mad over words that you associate with certain groups, almost like you're pretending to be pro-choice. You're also conflating "reason for wanting an abortion" with "reason why you can have an abortion". People don't want an abortion so they can express their bodily autonomy, but bodily autonomy is the reason why they are allowed to have one.
Lol seriously are you kidding me? Go and look my post history and see if i am "pretending" to be pro-choice,or not...i'd urge you to stop making assumptions about people that you don't know. I didn't conflate anything...there's no "bodily autonomy" reason on why people are allowed to have abortions. The reason is simply that up to a point its moral and ethical...and as long as something is moral and ethical,its not the business of the state to outlaw it. And as you've said yourself,people aren't having abortions due to "bodily autonomy"...but because they cannot foster a good environment for the prospective child. Abortions were simply made to correct and fix the mistake of an unwanted pregnancy,because not all people have the mental capacity to raise up a child. It was meant to be used as a last resort,not for "bodily autonomy"bullshit. When scientists and doctors created the abortion procedure,they were never intended it,to be due to"women's reproductive choices and bodily autonomy crap"...they thought simply,rationally and logically,that not every person has the capability to raise up a child...so its good to find a way to reverse unwanted pregnancies without anyone being harmed in return...and that's abortion for you.
I did, before I even replied. You advocate for a hugely restrictive window, 6 weeks, which can give a person under two weeks in the best of cases after a missed period to schedule and carry out an abortion, including whatever additional restrictions are placed on the person like waiting periods, getting time off work, or travelling across the state. You're pro-death penalty, describe yourself as "very pro-gun", call people degenerates, think a heartbeat is a useful indicator of life for determining if abortion should be allowed, support the prohibition of drugs despite plenty of evidence showing it to be harmful, froth at the mouth about "sjws", leftists, and male feminists. You've got every marker of a shit stirring right winger on a month old account, including wildly calling for the death of various poorly defined groups, and writing out big irrational screeds because you see a trigger word like "bodily autonomy" and react without understanding. Hey, I could be wrong, but I've seen enough people faking belief in an ideology to try and make it look bad that I have plenty of reasonable doubts. As for the rest of your post, either you didn't read what I said, or you chose to interpret it differently to justify the point you think you're making. Maybe you'll understand it if I frame it in US gun policy. People don't buy guns because of the second amendment, they buy them because they want guns. The thing that explicitly allows them to own guns is the second amendment. Do you understand the difference? Bodily autonomy = second amendment, in this comparison.
I've gotta say, this is the most impressive smack down I've seen in print in a long time.
Thanks, but I really goofed by not going more than a couple pages into their history. It gets so much more transparent. Calling people "cucks" unironically, literally advocating for sending people to concentration camps, saying "All kinksters are mentally ill...there's no healthy bdsmer out there", saying racists should be publicly executed without even a shade of understanding about how by advocating for huge increases in death penalties he himself is supporting racism through the super flawed and racist justice system, and finally this gem:
Fantasies of killing people = ok BDSM fantasies = mentally ill So it goes.
That's simply ridiculous...you're taking comments out of context to use them against me...i am pretty sure,that's called a strawman.
Lol,that's simply ridiculous...i never said that abortion should be illegal after 6 weeks ffs...in my country its legal up to 8 weeks...5 years ago it was at the limit of 6 weeks,but now they've raised the limit at 8 weeks,WHICH I ENDORSED myself the local referendum,crazy right?...think before you speak. I've just said that at my ideal world,where sex-ed and contraception was available,abortion would've been at 6 weeks. But of course you've failed to listen to me...i've never actually shamed leftists and male feminists ffs...i am a progressive socialist and a feminist myself,crazy right?...but of course,you're talking out of your arse,without any evidence. About the other incoherent mess that you wrote...listen and i'll explain it to you...people buy guns because they want guns as you've said...the 2a allows them to own guns,because they don't have negative consequences on the society...no one is being harmed by guns,ergo they're not immoral,so there's no reason on why the state should outlaw them. Same goes for abortions...abortions are not immoral,or unethical,because the fetus isn't a person(up to a par)...that's why abortions are legal,not because bodily-autnomy,but because they're harming no-one,so it isn't the business of the state to outlaw harmless things and harmless procedures...it has to do with morals and ethics and not rights. P.S The fact that you thing that i'm a "right winger"because i am pro-gun and pro-death penalty...i'd remind you that even in the us,half of the liberals are pro-death penalty and pro-2a...even obama himself was pro-death penalty...enough said.
You said: "I am pro-choice up to 6 weeks...after 6 weeks,the fetus heart starts to beat,so then i consider it life...the first 6 weeks,its your call to make." Either you are lying now, or you were lying 3 days ago when you made that post. Which is it? You said: "Incels are more cringe worthy than male feminists even...just lol at those basement dweller degenerates." This is a clear implication that male feminists are, to you, worthy of comparison to incels. You also conveniently identify here as a feminist, but when you chose a flair on /r/AskFeminists you chose "Egalitarian" I just gave you direct quotes that you said, please explain how those things aren't evidence. Should it be legal to force a woman to have an abortion before 6 weeks, or otherwise sabotage their pregnancy against their will or without their knowledge? If not, why not? You just said they were harmless. No self professed socialist would be holding up Obama as a paragon of the left, but a person trying to pretend they were something they weren't absolutely would. Either you're trolling, or your ideas are so uninformed and influenced by the communities you participate in that you're doing a nearly perfect mockery of an alt-right troll.
To me it seems like your argument is basically body autonomy and right to choose. First off, do you want this proposed woman that is someone’s dad’s cousin’s sister’s roommate’s coworker that everyone apparently knows that seeks out a dozen abortions for birth control really having a kid if they exist? I personally think that they are in a degree acting responsible if they really are willing to go through multiple abortions (which are painful) instead of opting for an IUD or delivering a kid they don’t want. It amused me that people propose the thought that there are hundreds of women who run around getting an abortion quarterly instead of getting some form of birth control. It amuses me further that people imply that the hypothetical woman should be less entitled to her abortion compared to say a white, rich, stay at home mom who is married.
My argument basically is centered on the fact that abortion is totally ethical and moral...since something is ethical and moral,there's no reason to disallow it. Abortion is not murder of course,its taking away the potential of the fetus to be a life...since people who don't want their children are going to hate them anyway,its simply more merciful to end a life before it begins. Abortion simply prevents suffering,for both the prospective parents and the children. And as you've said yourself,people don't understand the social ramifications on why women seek out abortions...if you're poor,or you're dumb,its better to have an abortion in the first place.
I don't think that bodily autonomy is an argument for abortion generally- it is an argument against state prohibition of abortion. If the state didn't attempt to or succeed in outlawing or severely curtailing abortion, then I think you're right- most reasons invoked for seeking abortion are as you describe.  It's only when the state makes it illegal that we let these fall to the wayside, because then it becomes a matter of "good" versus "bad" abortions, with the state (or alternatively, a hospital ethics board) deciding for patients who gets to have one, and who doesn't.  That is when bodily autonomy comes into the rhetoric- you do not have the right to me an abortion, because this body is mine, and I will do with it what I choose. "Abortion isn't a political issue" is the statement of someone with the luxury to not have politicians taking it upon themselves to make it a political issue.  As it stands currently, most countries in the world make abortion at least somewhat political, and the proliferation of the anti-abortion movement outside the U.S. (to a certain extent exported from the U.S. evangelical anti-abortion movement) makes it even more so.
Of course abortion should be legal,that's not the point. There's no way to control abortion,as you've described yourself,making abortions illegal,is only going to harm the women in the end. Pro-lifers need to understand this as well,we can decrease abortions,but we cannot stop them...they need to remain legal,in order to ensure the woman's safety,who's getting them. There's no pro-life movement outside of the us...maybe in ireland and the vatican...but the majority of european countries at least,are pro-choice. You'll never hear about abortion debates in europe,because in europe,no one cares...there are no politicians(except republicans in the us),who're seeking to make abortions illegal. And there's nothing political about abortion as i've said...its when people start to bring politics,conservatism,liberalism and religious bullshit into it...then it becomes a political issue.
It's on the rise in Europe. Similarly: Also, your claim that "there are no politicians(except republicans in the us),who're seeking to make abortions illegal." falls a little flat- do you know nothing of the Polish Black Protest?
As you've said yourself,its on the rise in europe,but nothing like in the us...anti-abortion movements in europe,are small and scarced here and there. Expect ireland,vatican and poland,there are not other countries that have,stingent supporters for outlawing abortion...you cited an article,that's ridiculous...of course other countries have pro-life organizations,but its nothing like in he us. They'll never outlaw abortion in eu,because societies there,even conservative,are very progressive when it comes to abortion...better look out for trump in the us,that's defunding planned-parenthood like crazy.
Indeed, I don't think I ever tried to say that anti-abortion fervor is the same outside the U.S. as it is in it, only that most countries do make it at least somewhat political given that they regulate it to at least some extent.  I just pointed out that globalism has meant these ideas are spreading- slowly, for sure, but they're getting more and more emboldened.  (Also, our actions here at home affect overseas countries, too- not only did the Trump administration reinstate the global gag rule as expected, but he actually expanded it). But ultimately, like I said in my first response, bodily autonomy is invoked when our right to terminate a pregnancy is challenged.  I think Loztblaz said it well: "People don't want an abortion so they can express their bodily autonomy, but bodily autonomy is the reason why they are allowed to have one."
Ah i see...yes i do agree with you then,globalism does indeed expands those ideas around. Lets at least hope,that abortion will remain legal,safe and easily accessible.
To me the moral grey area around abortion isn't "should abortion be permitted?" as, you're quite correct, there is no moral dilemma there. It's "should patients who don't want abortions be required to have them, given that continuing a pregnancy is an act of self harm?" I think probably I would err on the side of people having the right to refuse treatment, but this issue is far less clear cut for me than the question over whether to legalise abortion.


Excellent ! It’s great to see how many obestrictians and Gynaecologists on the #reoealthe8th support legal abortion in Ireland
That's pure evil.
What?
I just realized it's the eight amendment IN IRELAND. This makes so much more sense.
Lol

It’s a good piece that would hopefully sway anyone sitting on the fence.

I don't see anything Christian in this article. There wasn't even a single reference to the Bible. All she did was give her opinion and claim it was Christian. This is one translation, and I would argue that it's a faulty one. Let's look at the two versions most trusted and used by protestants, NIV and ESV. These versions focus on different methods for translation (phrase-by-phrase vs word-for-word) and both read similarly. NIV: “If people are fighting and hit a pregnant woman and she gives birth prematurely but there is no serious injury, the offender must be fined whatever the woman’s husband demands and the court allows. But if there is serious injury, you are to take life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound, bruise for bruise." ESV: “When men strive together and hit a pregnant woman, so that her children come out, but there is no harm, the one who hit her shall surely be fined, as the woman's husband shall impose on him, and he shall pay as the judges determine. But if there is harm, then you shall pay life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound, stripe for stripe." The fetus is not said to be miscarried here but just born prematurely. The Hebrew word used in this passage literally translates "to come forth" which sounds more like premature labor than a miscarriage. There is a Hebrew word for miscarriage, and it is used elsewhere in the Old Testament, but it is not used here. I argue yours is a bad translation. Also, in these translations the harm is not necessarily said to have been done to the woman, so it could be referring to harm done to either the woman or the baby. Your conclusion that the Bible places lower value on the fetus than the mother cannot be found here, and you'd be hard pressed to find it anywhere else. Source: Bible and https://www.brianseagraves.com/unapologetic-podcast/episode-82-does-the-old-testament-teach-that-the-unborn-isnt-as-valuable-as-a-born-person Regarding Psalm 139: There are numerous places in the Bible where the unborn are anthropomorphized and God is said to be intimately involved in the creation of human beings in the womb, not just in the psalms, though your belief that it can't be taken literally just because it is poetry is false. Some examples include Jeremiah 1:5 which can, in fact, be generalized, Job 10:11, Job 31:13-15, Genesis 25:22, Luke 1:41, Psalm 22:10, and on and on I could go, but you get my point. You can not argue that the Christian God is pro-choice because it is contradicted in the Bible and simply not true. This is why the Roman Catholic Church, National Association of Evangelicals, and Southern Baptist Convention are all Pro-Life.

Perhaps you should read Matthew 7:1-5 before making such pronounced judgements. You are a sinner as well.

Perhaps you need to take a look at scripture because absolutely nothing is said about Abortion. One of the few biblical passages that approach the status of the fetus is Exodus 21:22-25, which reads: "When men strive together, and hurt a woman with child, so that there is miscarriage, and yet no harm follows, the one who hurt her shall be fined according as the woman's husband shall lay upon him; and he shall pay as the judges determine. If any harm follows, then you shall give life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound, stripe for stripe." This passage allows only for the punishment of a man who injures a woman causing her to miscarry. However, a careful scrutiny of these verses uncovers a startling revelation. A miscarriage is punishable only by a fine, yet if there is any further harm, such as the death of the woman, the penalty is life for life The implication of this passage is clear—the life of the unborn child is not accorded anywhere near the same status as the life of the woman. To put it another way, the man who causes a woman to miscarry is guilty not of murder, but a misdemeanor. So the verses you have cited hold no bearing because the bible does not regard abortion as a crime considering the fetus is not as valuable as the mother.
The OT clearly did not support the intentional, premeditated murder of unborn children, which is what abortion is. The Bible is unequivocally [pro-life.] (https://www.focusonthefamily.com/lifechallenges/love-and-sex/abortion/what-the-bible-says-about-the-beginning-of-life) You don't have a single leg to stand on.
Let's talk about one of the verses they cited. Psalm 139:13-16, All this passage states is that God is directly involved in the creation of a fetus and knows its future. This is useless for the anti-choice position since God creates all living things, including trees and bugs. Plus, just because God is supposedly omniscient doesn't give fetuses any special status—it simply means God already knows whether they will live or die. It is dishonest to conclude from this verse that a fetus is a human being deserving of more protection than women. The passage is poetic prose that anti-choicers have twisted and trivialized by giving it a literal, objective meaning where there is none. Jeremiah 1:5, NIV This passage is specific to one, very special person—Jeremiah the prophet, whom God has called to provide miraculous powers and authority to the world. Since we are not all destined to be divine prophets, this verse cannot be construed as applying to any fetus except the unborn Jeremiah. Again, anti-choicers are being dishonest by pulling this verse totally out of its context. Abortion is not the murder of children, it is a medical procedure in regards to the fetus, and the status of the Fetus is pretty clear in the bible as I pointed out. Go back and read your bible before pushing such nonsense.

Your god murdered millions of people in his name, as well as murdered his own "son" in a "sacrifice." Instead of quoting a contradictory book of mythology from 2000 years ago, why don't you talk to us about what you think the definition of murder actually is. I would assume you wouldn't think all killing is murder. Especially since there is quite a lot of killing in the bible. But what do I know, I'm just a depraved heretic. Someone I'm pretty sure, if Jesus was around, he'd be hanging out with me, not you.
Whatever He commands is in light of His omniscience and omnibenevolence. It is in order to bring about His plan. All the innocents that were slaughtered are at peace with the Lord. Death is destroyed, nobody dies, we just change location. God deemed it better to call those innocents home to heaven. There is nothing wrong with this. Keep in mind that the death of His saints is precious in the sight of the Lord. This does not excuse the sins of those who slaughter unjustly. The victims of unjust murder may be at peace, but their murderers will lose their souls. But sometimes, it takes the death of innocent saints to wake people up from the slumber of sin. In this way, more people can be saved. This may not be ideal, but it is what it is in light of man's free will. God does the best that He can, but it's up to us to choose life. That's a Protestant heresy. I'm Orthodox. Jesus died in order to rise again and free us from the fear of death. It is not the healthy who need a doctor, but the sick. I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners. -Mark 2:17
In that case, he's a jealous sadistic fuck who should not be worshiped. Someone letting children, innocent children, get bombed to death, raped, die of horrible disease, die not knowing any religion at all (since supposedly that's how you're saved) or even, in the case of fetuses 80% naturally not implanting in the uterus at all. Then what are you so upset about? 80% of zygotes fail to implant, and 30% of pregnancies miscarry. Sounds like you are pro-death to me. Like in "his name"? Define "unjust." If god is omnipotent then you think he would do something about suffering of all people, including those who suffer to carry things out in ignorance. My question to you is if we are all his "children" what loving parent knowingly lets their children be raped, murdered, die in agony and ignorance. Not only that, but what loving parent sends their own children to punishment in a lake of hellfire. What a sadistic fuck. If we're like toddlers in terms of our understanding of god, or even less, what parent (if god is our parent) would punish an infant? Do you have any concept of children's development and understanding? How do you treat your toddlers or animals under your care? Do you punish them for eternity when they fail to understand your reasoning or rules? Do you just watch and let them get raped or beaten to death? Such a parent would be jailed by CPS immediately. Why worship such a sadistic, neglectful, abusive parent? The mental gymnastics is amazing. Interesting, it's almost as if it's a snake eating it's own tail. You must create the concept of sin itself in order to force people to keep buying indulgences from the church in order for this imaginary bridge to be made to be "saved." ETA: And holy fuck again, what twisted logic, you are literally saying that things are just as long as they are in "his name" as if some ex post facto makes murder fine (and all definitions change) as long as (some) gods stamp of approval is put on it retroactively. Gross. He either is omnipotent and omniscient and is a cruel sadist, or he is not and is fallible and weak and thus not a god. You contradict yourself. Which is it? I'm pretty sure Jesus didn't like the pharisees who decried everyone else but themselves as heretics. Name calling is not a thing Jesus would jive with. Remember, he hung out with the whores . I'm a whore. I'm pretty sure he'd hang out with me. Labels are so super important to you aren't they? More important than actions themselves it almost seems. Like your name calling, you really call other people names because you consider your labels to be the most important thing. TBH, my theory is if god existed he was beta testing earth and rage quit his own game, and went afk, resulting in his death. Then came back 3 days later with a "cover story." Anyway what is the definition of murder, please answer the question. Edit: Forgot yeah, you name called us murderers not just heretics. So it is rather important to hear your definition of murder. Labels being so important to you and stuff I'm sure you have a definition handy.


Imagine if they had to look at pictures of women getting maimed by child birth?




And I won't have to support a freakin' tumor 'til it's thirty.
You could give it up like my biological mother gave up me. I'm glad she did and allowed me to live my life.
Well thats great that she made a personal choice to give you up for adoption, that’s what she wanted to do and it’s her right, just like it’s any other woman’s CHOICE and RIGHT, to opt for a termination and not be forced to continue with an unwanted pregnancy for 9 months.
Most women who get abortions are not forced into pregnancy.
That doesn’t make sense what you just said.
Unless it's due to rape (a comparativly small percentage of the reasons women get abortions) pregnancy can be avoided. Risking pregnancy by choice is not being "forced".
Ok so if we’re going by your logic, what’s your take on birth control failure?
Use it if you are going to be sexually active but unless you live under a rock you should know there is always a chance of failer. I have a mirena and we use condoms but if I got pregnant I would face the consequences of my actions because I know the risks.

Please start printing every woman whom has died via child births picture onto signs. They deserve recognition next to these assholes.
I don’t think many pro life people are opposed to abortion in the case of medical necessity
I’m sure that’s true, but many are. They’re also against it in cases of rape claiming that women could lie about rape.
?
Just FYI these pictures tend to be fake. Just another way Pro-Lifers demonstrate their marriage to dishonesty in promoting their cause. http://www.lifeandlibertyforwomen.org/truth_about_photos.html
A picture is not an argument, but our animal brains do react to blood and gore...so they use what works.
The pictures are typically used to start conversations and get people thinking. Most people (in my personal experience) react positively to these pictures and it encourages people to come forward and state their beliefs so we can speak to them.
Most people (in my personal experience) react positively to these pictures.... What a weird thing to say. I don’t think anyone, regardless of their beliefs, should react in any kind of positive way about these pictures.
That's probably false. Obviously the folk who thank you for "standing up for life", as you say, are reacting positively. But, what you don't see are the ones like me who are angry that people are so anti-intellectual, and so willing to force their religious dogma upon others. I for one never stop and argue, because there's really no point trying argument in a situation like that.
By reacting positively, I mean thanking us for standing up for life.
You’re not “standing up for life” though, you’re standing up for bullying women into giving birth no matter what the circumstances are. If you genuinely cared about life, you would take into consideration the life of the woman who finds herself in a crisis pregnancy. I find it interesting that the people who take such a strong stance of being “pro life”, don’t ever seem to really give a shit about what happens to that life once it’s brought into the world. I mean, who cares if it ends up being abused, neglected or brought up in poverty right? Your conscience is clear knowing you pressured women into just sucking it up and having that baby! I’m sorry, but you all suck ass, and nobody should be thanking you for anything.
You must remember, that as a pro-life advocate I believe that the unborn are people who merit protection. Simply saying that I am "bullying women" into not getting abortions makes as much sense to me as saying someone is bullying terrorists by keeping them from killing people. I can only condone abortion when it is the only reasonable way to save the mother's life. Also, why on earth do you imply that I do not care for people who have already been born? I donate to a pregnancy center that offers resources to help parents raise their children in early childhood. Plus, these children do not have it nearly as bad as the unborn. Over 3 million abortions done annually in the US alone is actually insane. Abortion is number 1 issue because it is the most deadly. Yes, my conscience is perfectly clear, and I will keep it up gladly, knowing that if one woman decides not to get an abortion because of it then it was all worth it.
Well good for you. My conscience is also clear, knowing that I am supporting every woman’s right to choose what path she wants to take in her life.
Over denying unborn women the right to ever reach the age of choice?
Yes absolutely, because I value the health and well-being of an already born, sentient woman’s life over a potentially viable fetus.
Potentially viable? I'm not sure what you mean by this. Anyone can die, just a few of us are more likely to do it soon than others. Just that someone is not guaranteed to mature doesn't mean their life is less valuable than someone who already has.

Question for you. Why do you (or the pro lifers in these cases) use pictures that are obviously fake? http://www.lifeandlibertyforwomen.org/truth_about_photos.html Also. The majority of Abortions happen before 12 weeks, way before the fetus looks anywhere near to what these pictures imply. https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/ss6108a1.htm So I ask you for the second time today. Why is your movement so infatuated with lying and dishonesty?
I’m so confused even after viewing your links as to why these pictures are fake? Do you mean to say that they are not human? That they are not dead? Or that they are not dead due to abortion? What is it that is inaccurate? Obviously showing dead fetuses at a later stage of development will have more affect. Even if they are rarer. I mean, I miscarried my child at 12 weeks and watched my sister loss her baby at 16 weeks. These pictures seem pretty accurate. And cross reference any prenatal biology source shows the same thing. This charge is always such s peculiar one since there is a wealth of scientific information available. All one has to do is type in fetus and the age and they can see pictures and find info online.
I am saying they are fake because a lot of these pictures aren't from abortions but from other medical procedures or operations. I am also saying they are dishonest in their portrayal. The majority of abortions happen under 8 weeks and at this stage the fetus has no recognizable traits that would allow us to identify it as a human being. Nope, they are still human, never said anything about that. The fact that the majority of abortions happen at 8 weeks or less where the fetus is a clump of tissue and pro-lifers are showing graphic pics of fetuses that aren't even from abortions. Sure, it will. But then you have to admit that you are portraying things in a false manner and lying. Nobody had to lie about the reality of slavery, but the fact that you have to lie about the reality of abortion speaks a lot to the ethos of your movement. I am sorry for your loss, and the loss your sister suffered as well. Once again the majority of Abortions happen under 8 weeks. Way before the time frame those pictures are shown.
By this do you mean that the abortion was medically necessary? Sure, but it's not like they are claiming a late term fetus is an 8 week.
I am saying that usually that the pictures aren't even from abortions. No, but they are trying to use those pictures to show that the reality of abortion is procedures ripping the limbs of 29-32 week fetuses when in reality the majority of abortions are on a fetus that is under 8 weeks in a very non-graphic way.
Ok, thanks I get it now. But you aren't saying that this is not a real, dead human fetus.
No, I am not.
Please start printing out pictures of every woman whom had ever died via childbirth on signs. Rally against these guys.
These assholes.
i bet that's a paid protester...
Why would you think that? As such a protester myself, who is quite unpaid to be one and does not wish to be paid to be one, I find it somewhat unkind of you to accuse us of having monetary reasons for doing this.
Every time I see a fetus I throw up a little in my mouth. They look like small creepy aliens
Typical teenaged alt right edgelord right there with his pro forced birth sign.
So today in class, we talked about abortion.The teacher said that it's not a black-and-white issue, and seemed to imply that she is pro-choice.A male student said, "The woman chose to have sex, so she must deal with the consequences. Just give the baby up for adoption."Another male student just yelled, "Abortion is wrong!"A female student said, "My sister had an abortion at 18, bacause she wasn't ready for motherhood. I'm so mad at her that she had an abortion!"What would be good responses to these (and perhaps other) statements?
First, understand that some people feel so strongly about this issue that there is no point in engaging. If you're actually in an environment that a healthy debate can take place I would suggest pointing out that it could be argued that bringing an unwanted child into the world could also be considered immoral. Anyone with any common sense can grasp that children do not ask to be born and shouldn't suffer unnecessarily. Biggest issue - these people rarely have any common sense. Also, until something actually effects a person directly they can't fully understand all sides and are usually unwilling to consider your point of view.
I had an abortion at 22 and do not regret it at all. I would do it again. it allowed me to stay in the Navy and see the world and have a life. I did not choose to be sexually assaulted...but I do choose on what grows inside my body.
Consent to Sex is not consenting to pregnancy. " Some may object that if a woman consents to sexual intercourse (action X), then by extension she has consented to pregnancy (condition Y) as a foreseeable consequence of sexual intercourse. However, the law does not assume that if action X causes condition Y, then consent to action X constitutes consent to condition Y, even if condition Y is a foreseeable consequence of action X.   As law scholar Robin West notes, a woman may retain a right to consent to pregnancy, even when she has consented to an action, sexual intercourse, that entails the condition of pregnancy as a foreseeable risk.   Moral responsibility for a condition and consent to a condition must be distinguished. A person who consents to an action that has the foreseeable risk of a subsequent condition may be held morally responsible for that condition, should it occur, but that person is not presumed by law to have consented to the condition itself. A person who voluntarily smokes (action X), for example, may be considered responsible for the subsequent condition of lung cancer (condition Y), should it occur, but the person is not required to consent to the presence of the cancer in her body. So, too, with pregnancy. A woman who voluntarily engages in sexual intercourse (action X), may be partially morally responsible for the condition of  pregnancy (condition Y), should it occur, but it does not follow that she is legally required to consent to that condition. " -- Eileen L. McDonagh, Professor of Political Science, Northeastern University and Visiting Scholar, Radcliffe College. Ph.D., Government Department, Harvard University, They need to justify why they feel so. Doesn't matter how mad your friend is. Abortion is a fundamental right.  Over the years, the Court has established a number of fundamental rights protected by the Constitution. These include the right to travel, the right to vote, the right to reproduce, the right to marital relations, and the right to bodily integrity and liberty. "No right is held more sacred, or is more carefully guarded, by the common law, than the right of every individual to the possession and control of his own person, free from all restraint or interference of others, unless by clear and unquestionable authority of law." As Justice O'Connor noted in Cruzan v. Director, Missouri Department of Health in 1990: "Because our notions of liberty are inextricably entwined with our idea of physical freedom and self-determination, the Court has often deemed state incursions into the body repugnant to the interests protected by the Due Process Clause. Our Fourth Amendment jurisprudence has echoed this same concern." In Washington v. Glucksberg decided in 1997, the Court reiterated its recognition of bodily integrity and liberty as a fundamental right.
Morality is a cultural thing and most people are basing their assumptions on what is moral and immoral on how they were raised. I find killing of animals for food to be immoral. Another consideration is to ask why do they feel like the baby should be used for punishment? It is not avoiding consequences if you choose abortion. It is a very mature decision. I would be far more concern for someone who chose to be a mother because society told her to instead of wanting the baby. When it comes to the younger generation, very few have a true concept of what it costs to raise a kid. Sometimes listing out the numbers is helpful. A kid isn’t cheap. A woman is more likely to have their income potential affected.
The guys in that class acting like a girl can get pregnant by herself 😒 I'd start asking them if they'd rather deal with drug addicted babies, homeless kids, children in abused homes, infanticide, etc. Why force the kid to be born if you know it's going to suffer/ be abused/ be starving/ homeless? Abortion is a blessing for both mother and baby sometimes.
I go to a crime site called the dreamin demon and it is nothing but stories about abused kids and babies and it is..too much sometimes. But the real life of unwanted babies.
I’m in high school and have plenty of classmates that are nonsensically pro-life. When you can get things to a decent debate environment where people aren’t screaming about how “Abortion is wrong because it’s murder!”, I usually just tell the the logistics of the policies they support. Women are still going to get abortions whether they want the government to allow it or not. Their policy will kill unholy amounts of women and for the children who do get born, they’ll be dumped into the foster care system to be forgotten about. Your trade off for more lives equals a drop off in the quality of life for pretty much everyone involved. For their emotional arguments, I usually just point out the subjectiveness of their statements and how they have no clue when a person becomes so. Any arbitrary point during gestation can be argued as the perfect point for when a fetus becomes a person.
Gee, maybe you should come up with your own arguments

Cecile Richards is awesome.

The problem is for some of us, both being pro-choice and pro-right to arms (being pro-gun is as insulting as saying you are pro-abortion) are BOTH BILL OF RIGHTS ISSUES: Gun control: 2nd (duh), 4th (what is public domain vs. privacy, as well as warrants and seizures, due process and just compensation), 5th amendment (due process and just compensation) (...and to add: if in cases of removing right to carry based on medical history of mental health - also a 14th amendment issue.) Abortion rights: 4th, 5th, 8th*, 9th, 13th and 14th. (*for 8th in those stupid argument for case by case "punishment" of being forced to give birth via a civil court deciding a pregnancy is "at fault") Can we just move forward on what we believe in together instead of pointing fingers at each-other like fighting cliques of junior high school students? Thanks.

Casey vs PP. Start there. It provides much needed support for bodily autonomy/due process 4th and 5th arguments.

Genocide Awareness Project was pretty bad for doing this. If you read up on their history too, it almost seems like the group exists to make some hefty money for some of the founders when they sue for free speech or discrimination issues.
Relevant Excerpt: "Holocaust trivialization also manifests itself partly in the growing use of comparisons of disparate events to elements bearing no resemblance to the Holocaust...among the better-known ideological or political causes of the trivializers are, for instance, environmentalism, animal rights or PRO-LIFE ACTIVISM..."
I don't want to defend pro-life groups in any way, but I think a big part of learning from events like the Holocaust is being able to compare them to other things and recognize ethically relevant similarities where they do exist. If we want to prevent future similar tragedies from occurring, as is conveyed by the phrase "Never Again" that rose out of the aftermath of the Holocaust, these tragedies will not be identical to that one, and will depend upon our ability to make connections where ethically relevant ones exist. This is why Holocaust survivor Alex Hershaft when asked in his AMA: Replied with: Source
A lot of pro-lifers get offended when I ask if they treat all life the same and if they are vegan. I am about 95% vegan at this point due to raising animals.

This is really great to hear.
They have raised to total to 500k for leaflets etc they are at 400 with five days left .




Any links to it? I’d prefer a free one or one that was already bought so I’m not supporting them. Figured 50% chance they offer it for free on a website or something.It was on John Oliver’s show.
Here you go. Edited to add: I have no idea where you'd get a free or discounted one, though- sorry.
I may buy it. I have to think about it. Not really keen on giving them any of my money. Thank you though!

Samantha Bee did a segment on crisis pregnancy centers a while ago.

Ugh she's truly awful. Just reading her name and I could picture her face. Truly a megalomaniac individual who thinks she should be allowed to dictate her personal feelings into removing other peoples human rights.


I'm pro choice and I think women have a right to an abortion. Still I would prefer if this didn't limit where a group can protest, that seems like an easy route to limit peoples rights.
And women and staff have a right to not get harassed.
But does that supersede a person's right to effectively assemble? I don't think it should.
But when they assemble near abortion providers, that and harassment are mutually exclusive, so I guess with this particular one, you have to choose which one is more important.
Personally? If they could peacefully protest sure. However too many people have harassed patients.
If you listen to the evidence ( a UK parliamentary group has been commissioned ) it’s not ‘ quiet praying’ insults , throwing holy water etc . Even if they are just praying they can do it anywhere but outside the doors of Marie Stoppes

Yes. It's a Catholic Blog. But it's the only fair representation of the incident with Kristen Hatten and Abby Johnson. Please post a better source if you find one.
Shes the worst.

That's it. I really want to know the thought process of someone who believes abortion can be generally justified.
I don't believe a fetus is a person.
What constitutes a person?
In order to be a sentient being, one must exhibit intelligence, self-awareness, and consciousness. Beyond that, to be a person one must have a developed and functioning cerebral cortex to be able to exercise free will.
How are you defining intelligence and self-awareness? Many non-human species also have these traits. Would you agree then that it's morally justifiable to euthanize any human without a sufficiently developed cerebral cortex, even against their will?
We're talking about human beings that aren't necessarily sentient. What constitutes a human being?
Because the needs of an already existing, fully fledged woman outweigh those of a potential life. It’s that simple.
It's really not that simple. It's not a potential life, it is a life. What are you referring to when you say 'needs'?
It could be Physical,spiritual, mental health, financial needs etc etc. I’m not here to argue. You asked a question and this is my answer. It’s a potential life until it can live outside the womb and cannot even compare to a fully functioning human.
In the world, we do not judge all life the same. A cat’s life isn’t the same as a human’s. The cow isn’t the same as a human’s. A fetus cannot survive as its own entity like an adult or even an infant can. While people may attatch sentimental feelings for a fetus, not everyone does.
That doesn't negate the fact that it is a human life. Of course a cow's life isn't the same as a human's. I'm saying a human's life is the same as a human's.
Except you call the fetus a human. Many people do not feel it is a human and rather it is parasitic. The cow or cat has independent thought and can survive as an entity on its own, a fetus cannot.
It doesn't matter what people feel, a fetus is a human.
No, a fetus is a human because you call it a human. I don’t consider it a human. At some points, you would be hard pressed to identify a fetus of different species from one and another.
to YOU. What YOU believe does not make it so.
It's a scientific fact.
So the more dependent a human is, the less valuable they are? That doesn't make any sense to me. The way I see it, the only consistent belief/method would be to treat all human lives regardless of dependency as equally valuable.
The issue is a fetus is a parasite. You cannot pass a fetus from one adult to another. The fetus cannot survive as a separate entity. You are basically saying the woman’s rights, thoughts, beliefs, and choices don’t matter because you have a preconceived notion that the fetus’ rights are just as great if not greater than hers based on whatever beliefs you have. Basically, you are exhibiting a paternalistic view of someone treating the adult woman as a child and not letting her decide what to do with her own body. You are also treating her as a human incubator. Am I safe to assume that since all humans deserve life, you donate blood regularly and are on the bone marrow registry? Let’s take it a step further and say you should be donating parts of your body since you can live with one lung or one kidney. May not be just as well but the other humans have the right to life and you’re a good match.
The woman's choice doesn't matter? Her initial choice to have sex before she was ready for a child is the most important part of the equation. Mistakes have consequences, and just because the woman isn't willing to deal with those consequences does not justify killing a baby. At what stage of pregnancy do you consider the fetus a human being?
Pretending people won’t have sex or they have sex only for procreation is so ignorant. Mistakes gave consequences and they are choosing to deal with those consequences in the way they see fit. No other human should interfere with that as no one will be in their circumstances. I get you want to discount the decision because it doesn’t align with your beliefs but it isn’t really your place. This is where the paternalistic attitude comes in. It isn’t a baby! It is a fetus. It looks alien. It cannot function on its own. It cannoy breathe. A fetus when most abortions occur isn’t a cute baby.
Every time you have unprotected sex, you're opening yourself up to a potential pregnancy. When did I say that people should only have sex for procreation? Condoms exist for a reason. And let's say you do end up pregnant, orphanages also exist. Killing a baby is not a fit way to deal with those consequences. Again I ask, at what stage of pregnancy does the fetus become human?
Sex isn’t just for procreation. There are ways to terminate a pregnancy. As simple as that. You didn’t say it but implying that women should be forced to carry to term is implying it should be for procreation. That is hard to say. I would say probably 28 weeks or later personally. And once again, a fetus isn’t a baby.
I never said that. Yes, unethical ways that involve terminating a life. I don't understand what you mean. Can you rephrase? Did you know a baby is almost fully formed at week 11? Maybe instead I should ask you, at what stage of pregnancy is it not okay to abort?
So you want to punish women for having sex, what a shocker, because forcing a woman to carry a baby to term is a fitting punishment? There’s no arguing with misogynists.
I don't want to punish anyone. Consequences exist. Terminating a human life is not a right way to deal with a consequence (this problem was caused by the woman in the first place). You want to punish a baby for the woman's decision? How is that fair?
Its not a human life, it’s a potential life. A woman is a human and her life is important, not a parasite that cannot exist without her body. At the point of almost every abortion, it is not a baby, it’s a fetus.
Basic biology says it's a human life from the moment of fertilization; it's not potential. Do you believe ending a human life for convenience is right?
(Of course there is always the presumption the the penis owner has no responsibility with pro-forced-birthers).
I'm not at all trying to say that the fetus is more valuable than the woman. Rather I believe that they have equal rights. Which is why I am opposed to either one of them being killed. As for the whole "not letting her decide what to do with her own body", I'm fine with her doing whatever she wants with her body as long as she doesn't use it to harm another human being. Which is what abortion is; harming the unborn. If I didn't donate lets say my kidney to someone who needed it, and then they die, that should be legally acceptable because I didn't cause their death. If however, I actively killed that person by stabbing them to death, then that certainly should be illegal. It should be the same thing with abortion because it involves the active killing of the fetus. If you had left it alone, it would have continued to grow and live as a perfectly healthy human being, unlike denying someone access to your kidney.
So in other words it is okay for you to be selfish and withhold a life saving kidney? So you have some right to say you don’t want to tax your body? You assume quite a bit with the the healthy human being. It may not be healthy. It may also make the woman have severe health problems that could even kill her.
It may not be morally acceptable for me to be selfish and withhold a kidney, but legally acceptable yes. I have a right to not donate my body, but not actively kill anyone. The vast majority of abortions do not happen because the fetus was unhealthy or the mother's life was in danger. These are the minority, and you do not build laws based off of the minority, you make exceptions. It's like saying we should make all homicide legal because sometimes it's done out of self-defense. Why can't we just make most homicide illegal but make exceptions for situations like self-defense?
You’re saying the fetus is a person. I say that the fetus is not a person or human at this point. To me, it has less right to life than my cats which are considered property. To me, it is far more selfish that you want to control other women’s bodies because of a selfish belief but you don’t want someone to apply similar beliefs to yours. You believe life is very important yet you place the woman’s right to bodily autonomy less than yours. After all, the person whoncould benefit from your kidney is an independent person who maybe did nothing wrong but ended up with bad genetics. Should they have to die because you don’t want to give up a kidney? It’s not like they will be attached to you for 9 months.
The medical community overwhelmingly disagrees with you on this point. If you want specific citations, this is a good place to start.

What if you replaced the word "fetus" with "black person" or "two year old"? Would this argument still apply? If I believe that a fetus is a person and worth protecting just like a two year old or any black person, then it's my moral duty to try and make the law protect their lives. And as I already stated, the difference between having an abortion and not donating a kidney is that abortion is actively/intentionally killing a fetus, whereas not donating a kidney is letting someone die. It may be a selfish thing to do, but is still very different from going out and actively killing someone.

So what you’re saying is, you get to have bodily autonomy over your body, but a woman doesn’t? You are assigning arbitrary and emotive qualities to a fetus that cannot survive outside of the woman’s body, therefore it has no bodily autonomy because it isn’t a person.
Actually, according to the medical community, a fetus is a human. If you want specific citations, start here.
That doesn’t make it a person. It might be genetically human, but that does not make it a person. Anti-choice arguments such as those you cite diminish the personhood of the mother, reducing her to little more than an incubator for a fetus. Her life comes first - her body, her choice. A fetus is not a person, the mother is.
I think you're relying on a philosophical argument to define personhood rather than a scientific argument. As far as I'm concerned we should be using a scientific threshold to define human life rather than basing my definition off of some arbitrary religious or philosophical conception of "personhood." Wouldn't you agree?

Just so you know, I am a woman. And if I ever got pregnant, I shouldn't be allowed to get an abortion either. So no, this isn't about me wanting to take away my own gender's rights. As for the fetus, I'm saying that it has value because it's biologically a human being. And I believe that the only fair and consistent belief to have is that all biological human beings regardless of location, ethnicity, religion, gender, size or dependency are valuable and should thus be protected by the law. For example, if someone killed a pregnant woman, then that person should go to prison for committing double homicide, because both the woman and fetus are valuable as human beings.
Do you think the fact that you're a woman means that you aren't a misogynist? Your hatred for women is clear. A fetus is not a person - it may be biologically a human being, but it is not a person. The woman that it is inhabiting is a person, and it cannot survive without her. You are most definitely campaigning to take away your own gender's rights - where do you think women would be today without reliable birth control and access to abortion? You need only glance to patriarchal societies in which women have little-to-no say about their own bodies for your answer. Think about that while you're self-righteously contemplating your own thoughts about personhood.
Why do you think I hate woman? If men were able to get pregnant, I would be against them getting abortions as well. Abortion isn't a gender issue, it's a person hood issue. A 6 month old baby can't survive on it's own either. What's your point? How does the fetus's dependency invalidate its person hood? And I don't have a problem with birth control, I'm not sure where you got that from. Abortion is the only thing I'm arguing against. Please provide me with an example of one of these patriarchal societies and explain to me what this has to do with abortion. Again, I don't a problem with women doing what they want with their bodies as long as they don't harm other human beings. And I don't see why thinking about person hood is a self-righteous thing to do. How else will we figure out who is worth protecting under the law and who isn't?

Out of your own pocket, would you spend one cent US or your local equivalent to save a two year old child's life? Would you pay that same cent to prevent the abortion of a second trimester fetus? I assume in both cases you would. Now, let's move those values around a bit. What is the maximum amount of money, out of your own pocket, you would you spend to save a two year old child's life? What is the maximum amount of money, out of your own pocket, you would you spend to save a zygote, seconds after conception? It's not important that you put a specific amount of money into any of these questions, but if you aren't putting the exact same amount of money in for each, you do not value all human lives equally.
What cracks me up is when people post pro-life stuff online and then a few hours later whine about how they shouldn’t have to pay for food stamps or medicaid.
What is the maximum amount of money, out of your own pocket, that you would spend to save your mother's life? What is the maximum amount of money, out of your own pocket, that you would spend to save a stranger's life? I'm assuming you would probably spend more money on saving your mother than a random stranger, so does that mean that you think her life is more valuable? Does this also mean that the government should recognize your mother's life as more valuable and protect it more than any other person's life? Of course not. Our personal moral intuitions and who we would or would not save shouldn't ever dictate whether the government should legally protect them or not.
You're conflating legal rights and protections with value to avoid addressing your initial point. If my mother was unable to make medical decisions for herself, it very well may fall to me to determine if she lives or dies, and the reason why that's acceptable has to do with both the level of dependency and the abstract value that we place on various levels of human life. If she was conscious and healthy, I would be considered a monster if I somehow had her organs harvested, even if I saved more lives than I ended. If she was brain dead, I would be considered a somewhat selfless person for deciding to have her killed for the benefit of others. A zygote is less than brain dead, why should it be afforded the same rights and value as a conscious person? The logical conclusion of what you're saying is absurd. Should every egg that fails to attach or miscarriage be investigated to rule out foul play? If you genuinely believe a life should have equal protection from the government regardless of it's stage, why aren't you putting all of your effort into investigating and prosecuting the largest source of human death in the world, female bodies? More potential human lives are killed by the female body than any other possible source. Aren't these lives equally valuable? Why aren't you demanding investigation and medical interventions to stop this source of literally hundreds of billions of deaths?
No, I'm pretty sure a lot of people out there would disagree with you on that, myself included. And you haven't actually explained why killing her would be okay in this situation, only that many people would agree with you. This is using the bandwagon fallacy. And no, I wouldn't want every miscarriage to be investigated. Do we investigate every single death that happens to born people? No, we don't. Reason being that the vast majority of deaths (just like miscarriage) are from natural or accidental causes. It would also be a waste of resources to investigate every single death, not to mention causing further unnecessary emotional trauma to the already suffering family members.
Throwing out claims of a logical fallacy might be effective against internet randos, but you've got to do it correctly. I never stated that the popularity of the views made something correct or incorrect, I only talked about the perception of those actions. You even acknowledge this, so I'm not sure what you're trying to do there. The fact that you value the life of a brain dead body over the lives of multiple fully conscious people who medical intervention can save is irrelevant, as I never stated that my views or the majority opinion of society made something inherently moral. Accidental deaths are regularly investigated for negligence, and "natural" causes is a meaningless shorthand that ignores the context of the world we live in. It's natural for huge amounts of fetuses, babies, and mothers to die before, during, and after childbirth, but in our society we employ numerous medical interventions to avoid this, and consider it the expected standard of care. What was a natural death a couple hundred years ago is considered a colossal failure today, and the fact that you're not willing to extend these facts to such simple organisms shows that you don't actually consider them equal, but merely argue that you do to support your other views. I'll ask another simple question, but I have the feeling you'll just avoid it again: Ten fertilized eggs are in a medical cooler in one room. In another room is a two year old child. The building is on fire and you only have time to enter one room before you and everything you're carrying is engulfed by flames. I'd choose to save the child without a moment's hesitation. Which would you save?
Sorry if I misunderstood what you said. Do you mind restating the argument you were trying to make so I can better understand it? This is true. But as I already stated, investigating every single miscarriage would be incredibly impractical because of how common they are. Many times a woman will have a miscarriage without even knowing she was pregnant. It would also be very difficult to determine whether a miscarriage was induced intentionally or naturally. It's an unfortunate fact that so many miscarriages happen, but it would completely unrealistic to try and investigate every single one. Yes I agree, but I don't understand what this has to do with investigating deaths. I didn't avoid the question, you avoided my answer. My answer was that the question itself is pointless and doesn't prove anything. If I choose the fertilized eggs, I'll look like a monster for abandoning the two year old. And if I choose the two year old, you'll just tell me that I don't actually value zygotes/embryos/fetuses as much as other human beings. If I asked you the same question, but replaced the words "ten fertilized eggs" with "ten strangers" and "two year old' with "your mother", what would your answer be? It doesn't matter because it's a silly question. Even if you chose your mother, it doesn't mean that you believe she is inherently more valuable than ten strangers and that she should be protected by the law over them. Here's a good answer to the burning building question by Ben Shapiro (it's around the 6:10 minute mark that he actually answers the question). Although I don't like his aggressive style of speaking, I still agree with the contents of his answer.
See, it's not my, nor your, responsibility to 'save' another person's child. The fetus/baby/child is dependant on only the mother, and it is her responsibility to care for it. How does her lack of interest in caring for the fetus/baby justify killing it?
I never said it was. I asked what value they would place on being able to do so, because they claimed that all lives are equally valuable. For someone who claims to be asking an honest question about wanting to understand the thought process of someone you disagree with, you sure are throwing around a lot of baseless accusations.
Abortion prevents more suffering than it causes. This is the definition of a morally correct action.
Actually, abortion is used as a form of birth control today. 3% of abortions are the 'hard cases', meaning either the woman is in physical danger, or she was raped. 97% of abortions are due to the woman 'not being ready' to have a child. Killing a human life is not a just solution.
And in all those cases abortion prevents more suffering than in causes and is therefore a morally correct action.
Who's suffering more, the baby being slaughtered, or the woman being inconvenienced?
The woman being inconvenienced. Suffering requires a brain in which to have emotions and process pain signals. At the stage of development in which the vast majority of abortions are carried out, the fetus is not capable of suffering.
Being inconvenienced isn't the same as suffering. You've robbed a human of its life. How is that fair?
Abortion is moral because the amount of suffering it prevents (some) is greater than the amount it causes (zero). Given that a fetus is incapable of suffering, abortion would be a moral action even if the amount of suffering caused by pregnancy was very minor.
This 'suffering' you're talking about isn't prevalent or relevant. Today, abortion is used as a method of birth control. Instead of using a condom, people would rather terminate a life. This is false. There's nothing moral about ending another human's life *especially if the amount of suffering caused by pregnancy was very minor.
Pregnancy kills. And it's all very well saying "oh I support abortion if it's necessary to save a life" but you can't tell at 6 weeks into pregnancy which women will get fatal complications during labor. Pregnancy also causes lifelong disabilities and lasting injuries. Every woman in my family has needed multiple surgeries to repair the pelvic prolapse caused by giving birth, then to repair the repair a few years later, etc. This is a group of normal-BMI, active, otherwise healthy women. Pregnancy routinely causes incontinence, tearing and pain. Weighed against all those causes of suffering, you have a total capacity of suffering for zero on the past of the fetus. Even if pregnancy were no worse than a hangnail, abortion would still be a morally correct action. Given the extreme suffering pregnancy causes, abortion is overwhelmingly good.
Again, less than 3% of abortions are due to either rape, or the endangerment of the mother, so no, pregnancy does not kill. Guess what? The purpose of sex is for procreation. Procreation sometimes does have implications unfortunately, but that's how life works.

Your use of such emotive language isn’t fooling anyone. You don’t give a shit about the child once it’s born, do you? Or are you regularly adopting and fostering the children of women who were unable or unwilling to abort? Come on, if you’re so pro life, tell us how you’re helping to better the lives of these poor innocent babies who are being brought into this absolute disaster of a world. Do you actively try to make the earth a better place for these babies to live in? Do you volunteer? Eat vegan? Recycle? Abstain from reproducing because having children is literally the worst thing you can do for the planet? Please tell us how much you care about reducing the amount of suffering in the world for people who actually already live in this world. I’ll wait.
So once you run out of points you resort to shifting the blame on me? People's mistakes are not my problem, I'm not responsible for taking care of someone's unwanted child. FYI, once I'm married, I do plan on adopting, and not having my own biological children. I do volunteer, I've been to Mexico once, the Dominican Republic twice, and I volunteer my time for others on a weekly basis. I don't support factory farms, I raised my own chickens! And yes, I recycle. I'm not here to brag, you asked, I answered. Don't be so quick to judge when you don't know me. The topic of discussion is whether abortion is right or wrong, not what I'm doing to help.
I find people like you who think that they should get to control what a woman does with her body hideously infuriating. I'm honestly quite surprised that you claim to be environmentally conscious and caring, as your attitude towards women is so unkind and judgmental. You think that women should be punished for having sex and getting pregnant - why? Explain this to me. In a non-religious, non-emotive manner. Why is her life and her personhood diminished, why is it automatically worth so little when compared to a non-thinking, non-feeling fetus? I honestly want to know. If you think abortion is wrong, I do think what you're doing to help reduce the suffering in the world is relevant, as the majority of anti-choice people do not care in the slightest - they want to punish women and control them.
I find people like you who think that ending a valid human life because of inconvenience hideously infuriating. Let's get one thing straight. I love women. Women are literally the bomb dot com. I wouldn't be alive without my mother, so yeah, women rock. Stop calling me a misogynist, thanks. The only ones inflicting any consequences are the mother and father. Why should a human life pay for their mistakes? Why should the baby be punished? I could flip the argument around and say you want to punish a baby for a woman having sex and getting pregnant. Because it is scientifically a human being. Both the mother and the fetus are equal, neither have the right to end the other's life. I'm not anti-choice, I'm anti-abortion, or pro-life. I'm not into punishing women or controlling them.
You are anti choice. You believe that women do not get to decide what they do with their bodies. A fetus is genetically human, it is not a conscious person. You are for punishing women for having sex, you are not for “equality”. A fetus that is aborted is not a baby. It’s as much a person as the sperm and egg that formed it. Alive but not a human being. If you respect and love women, then you respect and support their rights to bodily autonomy.
No. It depends. Does it involve ending a human life? If not, it's fine and dandy. It doesn't have to be conscious to have value. Where's the equality in ending a human life? Fetus, baby, toddler, teen, these terms don't matter. Human = human. Biologically, it is actually a human being after fertilization. So what if the fetus is female, and you decide to abort it? Wouldn't that make you the misogynist?

But that would involve them actually doing something! It is so much easier for OP to be lazy and not actually do anything but to spout crap to make themselves feel better. I told women that abortion is murder today! I did my good deed!
No it's not. Completely destroying someone's body to prevent theoretical suffering is certainly not the definition of moral. People should have a chance to make their own way.
Who cares? Can you tell me if my next pregnancy will result in gestational diabetes or preeclampsia? Can any doctor tell this ahead of time? Every pregnancy poses risk t health. Every pregnancy poses risk to life. Every pregnancy maims a woman’s body. It seems to me your real problem, in addition to your willful ignorance, is you simply don’t respect the physical sacrifice of pregnancy and child birth.
These statistics invalidate your argument, so you should. Nope. Irrelevant. The overwhelming majority of abortions are not due to those reasons. Refer to the statistics again. Judgments like these have no place in this discussion.
Abortion is a basic human right, it's universally recognized including by the UNand pretty much every women's rights organization for very good reasons. The anti-abortion stance is human rights abuse. But if not well read on the issue it's easy to think the opposite. The basis for it is sentience, personhood, and ex-utero survivability. We don't give rights to cells, if you have understood dolly the sheep cloning you should know that pretty much all cells can technically give rise to a person. The idea that a cell is a person, therefore, would mean that killing any cell is equivalent to killing a person. You have to see what it is at that stage. And that is a cell. In terms of sentience or personhood, it is closer to/at the same level of any diploid cell than a person. To suggest that just because it has the natural ability to develop is an appeal to nature fallacy bc as demo started in the dolly cloning example, all cells have the natural ability to form individuals. That one cell has the more natural ability and therefore should be given rights is to make an appeal to nature fallacy bc just bc something is natural doesn't make it ethical. Also, take the example of bees, many bees develop from a haploid/unfertilized egg meaning life doesn't begin at conception. Also, you either believe a woman has the right to determine whether she wants kids or not. As long as a person isn't harmed it is morally neutral. A cell or a clump of cells prior to sentience stage is no more ethically problematic than any other cell. Abortion in the early stages is no more problematic than removing any other cell or organ from the body. To understand sentience and the ethical framework for abortion check out these couple of articles. This explains it rather well: http://blogs.harvard.edu/billofhealth/2013/06/26/fetal-pain-laws-scientific-and-constitutional-controversy/ While this is the scientific basis, a meta-analysis on the sentience aspect http://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/201429 You can be sure that when the overwhelming majority of ethicists, scientists, the united nations, every human rights organization and secular society as a whole has taken a position that is against what most religious pro-lifers advocated.
Because you can't force someone to give up their own body for something they may not want, and making abortion illegal won't stop them. It doesn't affect you, so you have no right to tell a woman what she can or can't do with her body.
A better question is: why is it wrong to force a woman to carry a pregnancy and give birth against her will?
Here's a question for your question: why is the woman pregnant in the first place?
So a fetus should be used as a punishment for actions? We should force women to be pregnant because they had sex? If they are drug users, should we lock them in rooms and force them to get treatment because they are pregnant.
Pregnancy is the result of sex. You consent to sex, you're consenting to the risk of pregnancy whether you like it or not. How is punishing a human life by means of killing it fair?
I am betting that you have never had consensual sex or made a woman orgasm. lol. so you want to dictate what women do with our bodies because we dont want to share them with you? Im right, huh? fucking loser
Because sperm fertilized an egg and the resulting blastocyst implanted into the uterine lining. Now your turn to answer.
She's 'forced' to carry a pregnancy because she's at fault for the pregnancy. It's her responsibility.
And you actually said it. So you support forcing people to be pregnant as a punishment? How fucked up is that?
Yes, I actually said people are responsible for their actions. Welcome to Earth.
Having an abortion can be considered taking responsibility. It's definitely more responsible than accidentally causing another person to exist in this world.
You are a misogynist, own it, be proud of it! You support punishing women for daring to enjoy their sexuality! Embrace your bigotry I say! /s
If there's one thing I've learned from pro-choicers, it's that they love to call names towards those they disagree with!
At fault? Who can will a pregnancy?
The ones having sex?
Women have sex every day and never ever get pregnant. Why are you faulting women and then punishing them?
Every time a woman has unprotected sex, there is a risk of getting pregnant. The only ones punishing women are themselves.
Nope. Women are only fertile about 10% of the time up to age 35 and then it gets progressively smaller. Sorry you don’t believe in consent. Rapists don’t either.
Yes, so every time a woman has unprotected sex there is a chance she will get pregnant. Rape isn't part of this discussion.

what about the men? what happens to them? you cant force someone to stay and support a baby.
I never believed my abortion needed justification. But if you'd like to know my thought process, sure. It was quick. I never knew how disgusted I was by pregnancy until I was actually pregnant. The thought of my body being used for that just made me want to vomit. And I never knew how I felt morally about abortion until I found myself considering suicide if the pregnancy continued further than it did. I was already a very suicidal person, and my crisis made it much worse. It was either my life or the pregnancy. Obviously I chose my life. I survived, and I'm extremely happy abortion allowed me to.
hey dude if you had to punch a pregnant woman or a fetus, which one do you think would be more upset about it?
I personally tend to think that all the ways in which contraception and abstinence can be right, can also be applied to abortion.  If it can be right and good for a woman or a couple to abstain or use contraception in order to exert some control over their fertility and better plan the timing, number, and spacing of children, then so too does that goodness extend to abortion. Having said that, this stance also inherently believes that abortion is not an immoral act; obviously, if someone felt differently, that would likely lead to them viewing abortion and prevention of conception differently.
The only difference there is that you're preventing a potential life from forming when using contraception, as opposed to taking away an actual life in regards to abortion.
Indeed, in both cases, one is preventing further development- either the prevention of the development of sperm and ova into a zygote, or the prevention of continued growth of the zygote that may result.  And if the latter is something that goes against one's personal morals, I understand- but I tend to get pretty upset when people claim that abortion is selfishly motivated, considering that the reasons someone seeks abortion are exactly the same as why someone might seek birth control, yet that is not usually referred to as selfish.
There's a big difference between preventing the formation of a human life and actually ending that life (hence the difference between contraception and abortion). The medical community recognizes a zygote as a human life. If you want specific citations, start here.
Eh, I'd say the degree of difference depends largely on one's view of personhood, with some people placing them hugely far apart in terms of morality and others less so, especially the earlier on abortion occurs.
Shouldn't we be using an objective standard of personhood for something as critical as the recognition of basic human rights? And wouldn't a scientific threshold for human life be the most objective standard?
The fact that personhood is something currently being debated somewhat makes its objectivity not a settled matter- for instance, a lot of people base it around religious beliefs, which is hardly objective. I think science can indeed help us to navigate portions of the personhood debate- it can give us a lot of information about embryonic and fetal development that informs many opinions.  But science can only give us the information to interpret, and as I said in the previous paragraph, different people can understand the process of fertilization, cleavage, gastrulation, etc. and still come to different conclusions about personhood, largely because it is seen as more than just acknowledgment of cellular division.
Personhood is a socially constructed notion created solely to advance the pro-abortion movement. To reiterate, if we're going to bestow human rights upon anyone, it should be based upon an medically-accepted threshold of human life. I have already presented an argument about why fertilization is the most logical and scientifically sound threshold. Instead of addressing that argument, you keep bringing up how different people have different notions of personhood. It's obvious that people disagree based on different philosophical perspectives or, frankly based on ignorance about embryology. My point is how that is deeply problematic, especially given the seriousness of this issue.
I mean, personhood has a long history, pretty much as long as abortion's history- heck, we used to base laws around the concept of ensoulment. I personally do not think that DNA recombination has much significance, but I understand that others might place a great deal of significance upon it, and I'm fine with agreeing to disagree.
Out of curiosity, what do -you- think the threshold for "personhood" is?

Sperm and egg are alive.
Because sometimes somebody is pregnant and doesn't want to be.
How does that give her the right to end a human life?
Could you please define for me what one individual human life is?
I can tell you where it begins, at fertilization.
Sounds like you are declining to define it.
You must be against most contraception then.
Why would I be against contraception? There's no termination of human life there.
While most hormonal BC works to prevent ovulation, and thereby implantation, they also have a back-up method to prevent enough build-up of the uterine lining to allow implantation. IUDs work the same way. Two thirds of conceptions end as a heavy period because there’s no way for the blastocyst to implant. Most end without the woman ever having known she’s conceived. This is why the Catholic Church is against most BC- they think it’s the murder of a child.
I don't know why I have to say the same thing over and over. Human life begins at fertilization, thereby killing it means you've ended its life. Any form of BC that prevents, rather than terminates, is okay in my opinion.
(1) No one’s making you be here- you don’t have to rewrite anything. Make good choices. And (2) my comment stands: You must be against most contraception. You should probably add contraception to your list of things to learn about.
Did you even know what contraception means? It mean to prevent pregnancy. If it involves terminating an already fertilized egg, it's not contraception. It may be birth control, but not contraception. It looks like you have some learning to do.

Your “Nope” invalidates yours.
How about actually responding to my points?
I did. Your Nope invalidates everything and proves my point. Pregnancy is dangerous and requires ongoing consent from the pregnant person.
You're incapable of providing valid points to counter mine.
Your Nope counters yours. Unless you can tell us which pregnancies won’t result in serious health problems or even death, it doesn’t matter what happens in hindsight. You’ve debunked yourself.
The health problems/death argument is irrelevant in this discussion, as I've said multiple times! I'm talking about the 97% of abortions that occur because the mother didn't want a child.
It doesn’t matter why abortions occur. But my point still stands: if you can’t tell me which pregnancies will result in these serious health problems or death, your hindsight is meaningless.
This is where you are completely wrong. The entire meaning of this reddit post involves the reasons why abortions occur, and if those reasons are valid and morally correct.
It’s always morally correct and “valid” to allow for consent and bodily autonomy. It’s never morally correct and “valid” to disallow for consent and bodily autonomy.
When it involves ending another human's life, no it is not. When it involves ending another human's life, yes it is.

So you can’t kill a man who’s raping you even if you invited to have sex with you and it turned dangerous? I think you’re wrong. I don’t know that there’s much more to say here. We’re going in circles now.


What motivation exactly do pro-choice advocates have to actually make a such a study (and one that directly contradicts other studies I've seen on r/prolife) on such a controversial matter? Do they not want people who change their minds to be able to choose to save their child's life?
The study in r/prolife (And it's only one major study, not plural or multiple) is BS in several ways. The most important of which is the haphazard way the "reversals" were done--different doses, different routes of administration (oral, intramuscular, vaginal, with or without an adjuvant (adjuvants are usually used to cause slow-release over time), capsules, powders, gel. And, of course, different providers, and different delay-times between the mifepristone and the progesterone. Haphazard, uncontrolled, and small. Dr. Jen Gunter explains it all clearly. She's biased pro-choice, but she's also honest and she understands how to evaluate a medical study. https://drjengunter.wordpress.com/2018/04/07/the-new-study-on-medical-abortion-reversal-is-total-b-s-heres-why/ And "peer-review" is only as good as the peers who are reviewing. Issues in Law and Medicine is a well-known fake-academic propaganda-rag; its "peers" are fake-academics willing to go along with its garbage. The journal publishes many anti-vaccine reports. I also recently listened to a Catholic Answers Open Forum with the founder of the study and he pushed forward several false claims about Planned Parenthood and other topics that it really lowers his credible ethos. I think the real motivations we should be asking are why do Pro-Lifers peddle such false and inaccurate information in pursuit of the truth? Why are you guys willing to lie so much? Considering you're Catholic, I encourage you to read Proverbs 12:22 about what the Lord has to say about those who lie.
Cross-posted on r/democratsWhenever you have this debate about whether abortion is killing a baby people start redefining 'baby'. But here are the first arguments I found that apparently distinguish why abortion isn't immoral. (And my response below)Fetuses are dependent on the motherPeople are "dependent" on life support all the time and this doesn't make it moral to kill them. Is it moral to kill your conjoined twin if they require you to survive? (Assuming you're not conjoined at the ankle or something.)2) Fetuses are not sentientNeither are people in a coma3) Abortion is really convenient/People aren't ready to raise a child/What if you really want to?I see you would agree with these people: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/health/news/9113394/Killing-babies-no-different-from-abortion-experts-say.htmlIn which case, where do you draw the line? And then if the parents die, can anyone kill them?The idea that parents (or the mother) should decide that the fetus an die assumes it is private property, in which case they could kill the child at any age.EDIT: https://www.reddit.com/r/askphilosophy/comments/8bc4mj/whats_wrong_with_killing_people_painlessly/See, as soon as you don't mention abortion people are sensible.
So basically, you've picked some easy to argue against positions, framed them within your own imagined view of what pro-choice people believe, and expect people to engage with the other side of your pre-set arguments? Cool. At least if someone ever wants to see the definition of a post in bad faith, I can point at yours.
Do you have a better one?
I’ll keep this somewhat short because from your previous comments you seem somewhat childish and motivated by religion. Women are people, not like life support machines for non-sentient embryos and fetuses. Women are not conjoined twins (unless they have a conjoined twin) and their uteruses are solely their own. I have never been able to find a case (outside of movies) where one conjoined twin wanted to have surgery and the other didn’t, they either usually agree with one another or are separated before they can have an opinion on the matter. If I had to guess, I would figure the opinion of the one wanting the surgery would override the other, multiple parents have been forced by doctors and courts to have their twins separated, even if it meant one of the twins would die. Kind of like with organ donation, even dead people have the right to bodily autonomy. The organs of dead people cannot be harvested and given to sick people without approval from the dead person before death. It doesn’t matter if another person will die without their organ, it cannot be harvested because even dead people have bodily autonomy. Surely women should have at minimum the same rights to their own body as dead people. 2. People in comas are not solely reliant on another person’s body for survival. Even if non-sentient embryos and fetuses were considered people, people are not able to use other people for survival against their will. Women are people and they have bodily autonomy, since their uteruses are part of their body they are the only ones that get to decide what to do with it. The only way you could turn women into forced incubators would be to either say that fetuses and embryos are not people and somehow deserve more rights to the bodies of sentient women than the sentient women themselves or say that women are not actually people and do not deserve basic human rights like the right to bodily autonomy. 3. Abortions aren’t convenient, not that that has anything to do with women being able to have a legal abortion or the mortality of abortion. Abortions can be expensive, difficult to come by, and sometimes painful depending on the method and the individual woman. Yes, some of the reasons people may choose to get an abortion are not wanting a child at that time, not being capable of caring for and feeding a child at that time, or not wanting to be pregnant or continue a pregnancy or give birth. And there are many other reasons why people may choose to have an abortion, but what does the thousands of reasons people may choose abortion have to do with the legality or morality of abortion? If anything, the morality of abortion is subjective. Catholics may think that abortion and birth control is wrong because it leads to less souls and possible followers on earth. Other religions may be against abortions for different reasons or they may support abortion rights. And a lot of people think abortion and birth control are good things for society and women because it gives women basic human rights, lets people decide when they have children and how many children they have, allows people to decide to never have children, keeps women and girls in school, allows women to have fulfilling careers, allows women and girls to plan their futures and not wait on the next unplanned pregnancy, and leads to a reduction in crime and poverty. On its own I find abortion morally neutral, it is an overall good for society and I know without question that it would be the best and only choice for me if I were to ever become pregnant, but I would prefer to never be in the position to have to get one.
There's a difference here. I can't steal someone's kidney because it's already in me. If, however, they gave me their kidney, they don't have the right to take it back.
Consent to sex isn’t consent to pregnancy, and consent is an ongoing thing. Birth control and sterilization can fail and women get raped. If you’re mostly interested in punishing women for having consensual sex, do you think choosing to have an abortion after rape is moral? After all, the woman did not choose to have the sex that eventually led to the unwanted pregnancy. Or do you think that rape victims lack the basic right to bodily autonomy as well? Are rape victims automatically the reproductive slave of their rapist once they’re raped and impregnated?
Rape is irrelevant, as less than 1% of abortions are due to rape. Let's talk about the 99% of abortions caused by women having consensual sex where they end up pregnant. They are responsible for caring for the fetus/baby. Killing as a way to deal with the consequences is immoral.
Even if 100% of pregnancies were caused by rape, by the same logic parents wouldn't be responsible for caring for their child after birth. Bad things happen to people all the time, but you don't get to "even out the universe for yourself" at the expense of other people.
Than I will happily be an immoral bitch who does not have kids and can afford bullshit with my disposable income and free time.
Please go away with this religion influenced shite, it’s not even worth getting into a discussion about.
Is it moral for people to take organs of healthy individuals so others can survive? Think about it. Do you need two kidneys to survive right now? Why don’t we take kidneys from healthy individuals without their consent? This is closer to the fetus debate than the life support example. First, there is no true life support. It’s some stupid term the movies made up. If someone told me my patient was on “life support,” I’d bitch at dispatch because that term means nothing. Do I need a vent? IV tubing? Monitor? Pacer? ECMO? Parents make that decision all the time. Often a twin doesn’t survive. 2. Technically coma is temporary. You’re thinking of brain dead. And yes, I think it is moral to allow people who are brain dead to pass. 3. You can pass a baby off to someone else. You cannot pass a fetus off. It is physically not possible. Your critical thinking skills are seriously lacking. Edit: Reddit’s automatic numbering system for lists sucks.
I have you arguing this and Brownie-1234 arguing that You know what else is temporary? Being a fetus
It is a good point. I had to wait four hours for blood because we had to have it shipped from another bank because the guy’s type is so rare and he has so many antibodies. So few people donate so what if we had a bigger supply? What if he had cancer? But we don’t have people carrying around people in comas. They are in beds. Sure they have caretakers but those caretakers have a low risk of bodily harm taking care of that body. Sure maybe they have a disease like ebola or they’re heavy and a worker injures their back but overall low risk. A few weeks ago I learned a patient I took care of died due to a PE a few weeks after pregnancy. I took care of yet another patient who is going to have a pump placed in her heart because of pregnancy-related issues.
If pregnancy is a health risk then abortion isn't really immoral (killing someone to save yourself) but I guess it could be considered selfish. But consider... The fetus in this case can be killed because it is a "health risk" to the mother. But could the mother who orders the abortion (and is thus a health risk to the fetus) be killed with the same justification, assuming the baby could then be safely delivered?
Pregnancy is ALWAYS a health risk. Yes standards have improved and the risks are lower now due to improvements of medicine but you always have the risk of death due to pregnancy. I am terrified of ever having kids knowing what I know and the people I have seen. Your statement doesn’t make sense though. You’re saying should we consider killing women to safely deliver a fetus? Can you give an actual example of this scenario because the only realistic examples I can think of is forcing women to deliver and then killing them for attempted murder or something stupid like that?
Let me elaborate... I mean a serious risk of dying. It doesn't, I'm just proving how your statement is incorrect. It would be true if one person being a health risk to another permits murder...
Which statement were you referring to? If I can’t even follow your simple post in reply to mone then I am going to say that the problem is you and you should work on presenting your ideas more clearly... you can’t even provide an example to back up your statement! How am I supposed to answer it...? So basically you’re spouting nonsense in the 2nd half of your post to me. It majes zero sense since simply put, a fetus isn’t a person. So forcing a woman to give birth and then killing her because she is a health risk means whoever proposed this is an idiot (and why anti-abortions groups were quick to distance from Trump proposing this on the campaign trail). Also, any pregnancy is a serious risk of dying if complications arise. Women can did of blood clots related to being pregnancy weeks after delivering. They can die of blood loss. Of clotting problems. Torn uterus. Eclampsia. Infections.
Define 'person'.
Food for thought
On the violinist example, it would still be immoral to unplug you. All persons have a right to life, and violinists are persons. I would allow an exception here, as I think was allowed before abortion. (Don't quote me on that.) But what if it's twins? Hmm, the argument is changing here. You have a right to kill someone to save your life, but not to "be given the touch of Henry Fonda's cool hand on my fevered brow" So which is it? I have a better comparison. Someone stole my money and is running away. I have a right to money, but the deaf person in front of me blocking the doorway between us has a right to life. It would be callous of me to blow him up with my grenade launcher to get through... but not unjust, apparently. TL;DR Most people wouldn't kill one person to save 5 people, but it's apparently okay to kill 1 person to keep 1 person from having to give birth. What a sad thing our world came to.
This is exactly the argument that the paper is designed to refute (i.e. that personhood leads to this conclusion).
And it fails to do so
Good argument!
Thanks or was that sarcasm?
Sarcasm.  (You didn’t give an argument.)
It said that abortion is like the violinist example, but I'm saying that is immoral as well, so their comparison doesn't actually prove anything as we cannot agree on the nature of the violinist situation. Here's a better example: Why is anyone responsible for caring for the baby after it is born? That's closer, and I think we can agree on it.
You're saying that, but you're not arguing that, strictly speaking.  (You're not giving reasons to think this is true.) But this question is deceptive since, in this case, it might be perfectly consistent with "care" to give the child away.  This, of course, is exactly the thing a pregnant woman cannot do.
I do not need to do so to reject an argument, as the author of the post didn't give reasons for it. The only way to do so is take another familiar and similar situation on which we can both agree, caring for the child when it is alive. But hold on here. You've just agreed that it's immoral, and should be legally enforced, that the woman is required to make sure the baby survives (find someone to take care of it) or that the government is required to do so. Wait a minute, why not let the baby rot and die? Who said that's immoral, given that people aren't required to keep babies from dying? And for the "kidney" argument, we can say people aren't forced to donate kidneys to each other, but only because it's a major health risk. There are several things we must consider, however. This assumes rape (It would be stupid to argue you can demand a kidney back after willingly donating it.) What if it's not a kidney, but somehow someone else needs your tonsils? It's no risk to you to remove your tonsils, but somehow they need them to stop an infection. So in the night, someone else, unbeknownst to you both, secretly removes your tonsils and put them in the other person. They're not your tonsils: You used to have a similar infection, in which someone gave you their tonsils to save your life. Now it's pretty obvious, isn't it? The tonsils are removed, you don't lose anything except a funny feeling in your mouth, the person's right to life ouweighs your control of your body (including your tonsils) and someone did the same for you (raised you, didn't kill you as a fetus). What right do you have to demand your tonsils back?

Lol nah
First, we have to define what dependence means in this case. In the case of the fetus, it is absolutely dependent on another human being for its continued existence. Without the mother’s life-giving nutrients and oxygen, it would die. Throughout gestation the zygote-embryo-fetus and the mother’s body are symbiotically linked, existing in the same physical space and sharing the same risks. What the mother does affects the fetus. And when things go wrong with the fetus, it affects the mother. What you have failed to do is differentiate between physical dependence and social dependence, which is what the examples you gave refer to. Physical dependence does not refer to meeting the physical needs of a child or providing someone life support. That’s social dependence; that’s where a child or person on life support depends on society—on other people—to take care of it. Physical dependence occurs when one life form depends solely on the physical body of another life form for its existence. This is exactly what happens with the fetus in the case of bodily rights. There is a huge difference between these two examples. A sleeping or comatose person's sentience is dormant: if they wake up, it's active. A person in the com has sentience, it's just not being actualized. For a fertilized egg, there is no sentience and also no history of sentience (unless you believe in reincarnation). Even though all the DNA is there, the fact that there's no higher brain activity shows that there is an active or passive measure of sentience. There is no unique level of brain function. Science has shown that brain activity begins at 7-9 months and around that time frame is where scientifically we would say a human being is formed. However, the right to bodily autonomy is also important as well. I also want to address your "culture of death" argument which tries to show that legalized abortion is a pathway to infanticide. There are many reasons to reject this culture of death argument. The first is that there is insufficient statistical evidence to warrant the claim that infanticide rates are higher now than they were generally when abortion was illegal. In fact, according to Everett Lee, a demographer who has analyzed decades worth of such statistics, precisely the opposite is the case: The deliberate killing of newborns was more common 30 years ago than it is today, although today individual cases are more likely to receive national attention. Moreover, there is a sensible explanation for why this would be the case: "There’s no question that abortion prevents, or substitutes for, a lot of these infanticides" in an unpublished paper by John Donohue of Stanford University Law School and economist Steven Levitt of the University of Chicago argues, the decriminalization of abortion throughout the United States in 1973 has likely been responsible for the significant decrease in overall crime that occurred during the late 1990s.
There's still no moral difference between the two. First, of all, what are you defining as social vs. physical dependence? And what means that if someone depends on you physically you can kill them? When a baby is born, for example, it's commonly agreed the parents or society is under the obligation to care for them. This involves meeting all their physical needs, as with the person on life support, as with the fetus. However, I assume you mean someone meeting these physical needs in a physical manner (with their body?). Before formula was invented, these physical needs of a baby would include breastfeeding, which is about as physical as you can get. And if the baby is born, it's "active" Calling a baby a fertilized egg is like calling domain squatters "domain investors" Which isn't an issue, given that you aren't affecting the person's past sentience in either case. It's their future sentience which you are robbing them of. Also, what about a baby who is born in a coma (Granted, I'm not a doctor so this may not exist.) I think the other responses covered this Which doesn't make a difference if it's morally the same thing I read that book. They also said it's mad inefficient if a fetus is even worth a 100th of a human being.
I think you completely missed the point of what I am trying to say. Let me elaborate a bit. Physical dependence was cleverly illustrated back in 1971 by philosopher Judith Jarvis Thompson. She created a scenario in which a woman is kidnapped and wakes up to find she’s been surgically attached to a world-famous violinist who, for nine months, needs her body to survive. After those nine months, the violinist can survive just fine on his own, but he must have this particular woman in order to survive until then. Thompson then asks if the woman is morally obliged to stay connected to the violinist who is living off her body. It might be a very good thing if she did—the world could have the beauty that would come from such a violinist—but is she morally obliged to let another being use her body to survive? This question becomes even more profound when we consider a scenario where it’s not an existing person who is living off the woman’s body, but simply a potential person, or better yet, a single-cell zygote with human DNA that is no different than the DNA in a simple hair follicle. A baby is different than a fetus. Once again this is social dependency. Not physical dependency. Embryos are not independent. We must not confuse potentiality with actuality. An embryo is a potential human being. It can, granted the woman’s choice, develop into an infant. But what it actually is during the first trimester is a mass of relatively undifferentiated cells that exist as a part of a woman’s body. If we consider what it is rather than what it might become, we must acknowledge that the embryo under three months is something far more primitive than a frog or a fish. To compare it to an infant is ludicrous. That tiny growth, that mass of protoplasm, exists as a part of a woman’s body. It is not an independently existing, biologically formed organism, let alone a person. That which lives within the body of another can claim no right against its host. Rights belong only to individuals, not to collectives or to parts of an individual. Actually, a fetus doesn't develop the necessary structures for neural capacity till 7 to 9 months. There are no focused brain waves present. Reflex movements and hormonal stress responses provide information about sensory connections at lower levels of the nervous system and cannot be assumed to indicate perception or awareness. For perception or awareness, the sensory information needs to be transmitted to the thalamus, the major subcortical sensory nucleus and then to the cortex, the highest region of the brain. An embryo is not a human being, and abortion is not murder. There is no scientific reason to characterize a raisin-size lump of cells as a human being. Biologically speaking, such an embryo is far more primitive than a fish or a bird. Anatomically, its brain has yet to develop, so in terms of its capacity for consciousness, it doesn’t bear the remotest similarity to a human being. This growth of cells has the potential to become a human being–if preserved, fed, nurtured, and brought to term by the woman that it depends on–but it is not actually a human being. Analogously, seeds can become mature plants–but that hardly makes a pile of acorns equal to a forest. It pretty implausible to consider an embryo a person, given that they have little to no nervous system. The fact that an embryo has human DNA does not prove it is a person because human tissue samples have human DNA and human tissue samples are not individual human beings. This argument is from a potentiality standpoint and it has been refuted. There is no such thing as a “potential” life. When Jimmy Carter was six years old, he was a potential president of the United States, but even though the president of the United States has the right to command the armed forces, it does not follow that six-year-old Jimmy had even a very weak right to command the armed forces, let alone a right on a par with actual presidents. This example shows that potential rights do not entail actual rights, and that the assumption needed to ground the potentiality argument must be rejected. The potentiality argument akin to saying that a Home Depot is the same things as 100 houses because it holds that potential. How can a biological entity that has no nervous system be considered life? I really didn't see anything from in regards to this point. Feel free to copy and paste your response to this so I can take a look at it here. I reject your claim because you have failed to prove them as being the same thing. Since this isn't a proper refutation. I am hereby taking this as a concession to this specific point since you haven't provided a proper rebuttal.
She is. Once again, breast-feeding is physical And back to the coma. It's not that a fetus could become a baby if the right things happened. It's that it will unless you interrupt the process, like stabbing someone in a coma. So you could stab him to keep him from becoming the president?
Your first mistake is in comparing fetuses to people in a coma- a coma patient is a person. A fetus is a bundle of cells, not a person. A coma patient is living with the aid of machinery. A fetus is using the woman's body against her will. That's a terrible analogy.
All people are bundles of cells. Some have more than others. Would you argue that short people should have less rights than tall people? How many "cells" do you need to be a person? I'm a tax payer. My taxes pay for the machinery that keeps people alive in the emergency room-against my will. But since their right to live outweighs my right to convenience, we agree to keep them alive. Second, this is changing the argument. The coma analogy is only supposed to prove that fetuses have moral rights. I would happily debate you on the second issue as well, but you can't necessarily use the same analogy. You can check out my post on r/askphilosophy
No, you have to be born to be a person. Needing to parasite off somebody else disqualifies you. Money and your individual body are two completely different things. By living in this society and benefiting from all the things those taxes do for you then you have to contribute. If you think the two are comparable and we have rights to your body then does that mean we can use it against your will? If everybody votes does that mean you can be compelled to have sex with someone or let them use your body in some way against your will? No, because we acknowledge that individuals have bodily rights.
Does it disqualify newborns who need to be breast-fed? Yes, the "bundle of cells" you described is considered a body
No because they can be bottle fed and the woman isn't required to do it. Once they are no longer actually living off somebody, as in inside, that person's body then they are now a person. That's a bad comparison because once the fetus is born and becomes a person the woman has the ability to abdicate the responsibility of caregiving to the state or through adoption. Until it is born it isn't- it's human matter but it isn't a body. Your liver is made of human matter inside you but you wouldn't argue that that is a body. While still inside the women she has two hearts, two stomachs etc. And because it is using her body to grow, like a tumor she can choose to remove it.
Not always. What about before formula was invented? What about places in Africa where they don't have adoption programs? I would if it was going to turn into a human. What about conjoined twins?
Before formula was invented there were things called wet nurses or they would give the baby goat's milk. Or if they really couldn't take care of a kid they would leave it in the woods to die. Or in some places, the infant would be deemed imperfect if the mother didn't provide milk and it would be destroyed. Thankfully we have evolved as people and formula is now an option. There are adoption programs in Africa. Also there if a women doesn't want to or can't raise a child then their village will do it. In plenty of places that is their cultural norm- that children are communally raised. Also you should note that the abortion rate in Africa is much higher than it is here. I know you are desperately trying to find an exception to my point but these attempts are weak. There is no comparison between something living off your body and endangering your life and when a separate entity needs care to survive. A liver is much like a fetus in that it is comprised of human dna but it isn't independent from the person it is inside. Something having the potential to be a human doesn't make it a person. Do you sob over every spurt of seman? That could be a human. Over 70% of all fertilized eggs get passed in a heavy period- those could be human but nobody notices them. In the womb, they should be aborted. Out of the womb, doctors try to separate them. Not sure how you are connecting this to abortion- it would be better if the mother decided to abort in this case. Also, the majority of people absorb their twin in the womb- should we try them for murder? They absorbed what could have potentially been a person.
Which you are apparently supporting Yes, in some places but not all. That's why I said "Where they don't have adoption programs." Yeah, but what if the community doesn't want to? You're admitting they have an obligation to, which by the same logic would mean abortion is immoral. This is the same reason people aren't concerned over starving people in Africa but would save a drowning person. People are stupid. Also, it's not that a fertilized egg could be a human, it's that it will if you leave it to its own devices. I mean can one conjoined twin kill another
Actually that's what you support. Being anti-abortion and anti-women like you creates situations where women who don't want children or who can't take care of children are forced to give birth. You are advocating something that not only violates women but forces children into existence that then can't be cared for. If abortion and birth control was readily accessible the only people having children would be the ones that want them. So shame on you. Also your pretend moral outrage doesn't change the fact that the concept of personhood and what we value in people has evolved and our stance on women as well. That's why being pro-choice is an important step in progress for any culture. Where don't they have adoption programs? Once you name somewhere specific that forces women into motherhood it will be easier to debate since it seems like you are just avoiding my point about the fact that there is a marked difference between a fetus living off a women's body and health and a child that can have its care abdicated when the woman can't take care of it. No my point just went over your head but I'll explain it again in a way that hopefully, you will understand. I said in plenty of places in Africa- and other places- that is the cultural norm. Meaning that the village already chooses to raise children communally. If their culture was different then they wouldn't be opposed to outside adoptions. I never said anywhere that anybody had the obligation just that different cultures view their obligations to children in different lights. That is the single most idiotic analogy I have ever seen so congratulations. First off the reason somebody would save a drowning person but don't do anything about starvation in Africa is because that person is in front of them and they have a clear and obvious way to save their life. People don't do anything about starvation in Africa because it feels like such a big problem with so many minefields it is difficult to fix. The difference is that both of those things are problems. The reason nobody cares about the majority of fertilized eggs or zygotes getting flushed down a toilet is because it isn't a person- it is more like a blood clot than it is like a 10-year-old. But once you bring religious indoctrination into the mix people start to falsely believe something is a person when it isn't And it's like I said- semen could be a human. An egg could be a human. It doesn't mean anything that that particular matter could or would be- it matters that before it's born it isn't a person and so you conferring emotion or the concept of a soul onto it is plain silly and childish. Nobody has the obligation to expect every spurt of semen should be a person so your expectation that it's different for a fertilized egg is stupid. EDIT: You edited your reply since I posted this. You added, "I mean can one conjoined twin kill another." Which the answer depends on the situation. Plenty of parents have decided to let one twin died to give the healthier one a shot at life. Sometimes they risk the lives of both of them to separate them. It isn't the same as a fetus though because once conjoined twins are born they are people. It would be better to abort conjoined twins to avoid the painful decision parents have to make about letting one of them died.
So what would you define as a person?

Here's a sneak peek of /r/askphilosophy using the top posts of the year! #1: How to deal with unproductive gadflies like followers of Stephen Molyneux, Ben Shapiro, and Jordan Peterson?#2: Why people assume they are smarter than philosophers?#3: What philosophical theory, concept, or argument ought to be more widely known? I'm a bot, beep boop | Downvote to remove | Contact ^^me | ^^Info | ^^Opt-out
I notice you didn't respond to my other arguments, probably because you can't, and my argument wasn't that people on askphilosphy are pro-life. It's that pro-choice people make up moral arguments to justify abortion so they can be easily tricked into admitting that a similar situation is immoral.

"...accepts unblinking a world where human beings can be commodified and vivisected so long as they’re in embryonic form." First, should any "human" have the right to the use of another human's blood, flesh and tissue to stay alive if the donor is unwilling to agree to it? No US law that I've ever heard of allows me to demand the use of physical body of another person if that person does not want his or her body used by me in that way. The author calls the fetus "human" -- I'm also "human" and I can't use another person's flesh against their will. Slavery in this country ended more than 150 years ago. Here's another issue: Men cannot be used by the fetal "human" in question; only women can. Pretty discriminatory, dontcha think? And third, "human beings can be commodified and vivisected so long as they’re in embryonic form." Only ONE HUMAN is allowed to make the decision to commodify and vivisect -- that is the person whose flesh is being used against HER will. Not HIS will, HERS. If as a woman I don't want an abortion that "commodifies and vivisects" the fetus, nobody can force me to have one, not under US law! The author of this article fails to make a valid argument against abortion on demand. I wonder how the author feels about free birth control on demand, which is the only way to reduce the abortion rate -- birth control paid for by taxpayers, many of whom do not support abortion on demand. Well, we can have one of three things: Free birth control for everyone OR legal abortions on demand OR illegal abortions and a lot of dead women. Interesting how the "pro-life" movement will tie themselves into knots trying to avoid that discussion!
This is a pretty horrible op ed. Stating "It wasn't the child I wanted." Is not extremist. It is an individual expressing the choices she is making WITH HER OWN BODY. And is not the same as saying "I think if we do executions we should embrace them as brutally as possible and yes, women who get abortions should be hanged." He really does seem to be someone who equates women choosing not to give birth to high needs/disabled children (or choosing not to give birth FOR ANY personal reason) to be some kind of genocide. He just won't say it out right.
I like some things about this article.  It is indisputably important to me that people are able to choose whether or not to continue pregnancies, but it is also very important to me that people are able to disagree without villifying each other or dismissing their views as ignorant.  The author has a similar case to make. So why does he say, essentially, "if you disagree with me, you must be deceived?"
Yep there it is. Beautiful catch on the hypocrisy of it.
Can someone ELI5 the position that it's a bad thing for Down syndrome to be near-eliminated in Iceland?
People with Down Syndrome are people, too. If abortion is murder, then Iceland is systematically murdering a section of its population until they are wiped out, which seems like genocide and eugenics under a different name. If course, if a fetus isn't a person and abortion isn't murder, the entire argument falls apart.
It's also not like they're forcing people to abort if the fetus has Down Syndrome - just people don't want to bring children into this world who will be severely handicapped.
Serious question. I don’t get what is meant by bring into the world? Aren’t they already in the world? I mean a uterus does not exist in another dimension?
A fetus is not yet a child. A child with Down Syndrome has not yet been brought into this world when the fetus is aborted.
Oh, I see, Emphasis on the word child. Although, the word child can mean unborn. See here. Like all the times I've been pregnant it was said I was pregnant with a child. That's why this always confusing me. But I guess it's just a figure of speech.
More broadly speaking, a fetus is not a person. Aborting a fetus with trisomy 21 prevents a person with Down Syndrome from being brought into the world.
Well in fairness the term can be used to mean human fetus. See here.
Ok good point. Iunno why that's the way people always phrase it.
Given that fetus are not people it still remains an issue because there is still a significant social movement to prevent people of a certain kind from existing. Consider if being gay was genetically determined and possible to test before birth. The ethics of a movement aborting gay fetuses would be, if not unethical, at least of moral concern. It is inseparable from a conversation that considers having downs as having a life not worth living. -- A Disability Studies Scholar
This is a shit article.

Free speech dies a bit more every day because people don't want their feelerz hurt.

They are free to protest... just not in front of a clinic. Because these "pro-lifers" have been spitting on, yelling at, and harassing women simply for wanting access to healthcare.

They can protest somewhere else. Like you know, at a park or at a church. The women should have a right to access legal healthcare services without being harassed. I remember protesting the Genocide Awareness Project and guess what one of fheir supporters did? Video tape and take pictures to post online.

Harassment is illegal inside companies on private property. Abuse is illegal even inside private residences. Abortion is a human rights issue before a political one. If your political party tries to argue that harassment and abuse should be legal for their own gains on any human rights issue, they are the ones choosing to curtail others' freedom of expression for political gains. Nobody else.
Abortion is indeed a human rights issue, but I'm not really talking about the pro-choice vs pro-life argument. I'm talking about the danger of allowing government to restrict political speech that they don't like, which is what is happening here. You talk about political parties thinking harassment should be legalized for their own political gain, but what about political parties curtailing their opposition's political speech for their own political gain? Is that okay with you?
Oh who is "they" exactly? Do you think if you were part of the government, perhaps there would be some people who would say you're trying to allow others' lives to be restricted in ways they don't like? Because you're basically doing that right now; you call it "restricting political speech they don't like" when I call it "restoring dignity to people who are being deprived of it because of actions others don't like". People's lives are being affected here, a baby is a permanent change, but all you care about is others' ability to mouth off temporarily to make themselves feel better? Nah. Except they are curtailing political "speech", which is really physical actions in this specific context, aimed at stopping people from getting abortions. This is not a political gain, this is at the minimum the life of a woman who is being changed here, at most the life of an entire family. It's you who is bogged down by the notion of "political gain" and can't see the forest for the trees.
"Do you think if you were part of the government, perhaps there would be some people who would say you're trying to allow others' lives to be restricted in ways they don't like? Because you're basically doing that right now; you call it "restricting political speech they don't like" when I call it "restoring dignity to people who are being deprived of it because of actions others don't like"." No, because rights are not political, and protecting them is not partisan. "People's lives are being affected here, a baby is a permanent change, but all you care about is others' ability to mouth off temporarily to make themselves feel better? Nah." Again, you are too ignorant to understand that you are setting the precedent that government gets to restrict political speech that they don't like. Thank God I live in the U.S. where idiots like you have a much harder time taking away people's rights because some people are meanies. You clearly aren't mature enough to live in a free-society anyway, as you cannot handle words without wanting to jail people for saying them. "Except they are curtailing political "speech", which is really physical actions in this specific context, aimed at stopping people from getting abortions. This is not a political gain, this is at the minimum the life of a woman who is being changed here, at most the life of an entire family." Physical actions to prevent access to the clinic are already illegal, so instead of enforcing the law, you restrict political speech, nice one Orwell. "It's you who is bogged down by the notion of "political gain" and can't see the forest for the trees." The bigger picture here is that you are praising government's ability to restrict rights when they serve to benefit the political ruling party. Again, if you are too ignorant to understand what I'm saying here, there's no point continuing this conversation.
I’m more concerned that the protestors are harassing people attempting to get a legal and legitmate health procedure. They can go protest somewhere else where they will not be harassing women. Like maybe they can go protest at the courthouse or something.
So you are more concerned with people's feelings than maintaining the integrity of rights? Gotcha.
I am more concerned about the right of women to obtain a legal procedure without being harassed. If they want to protest, they can protest elsewhere. Not everyone gets to protest where they want to. People can’t just go blocking the streets because they want to protest.
They are allowed to protest abortion, just not directly in front of clinics.These so-called protestors are infringing on the woman's right to get healthcare unmolested. Go back to The_Donald, pro-life troll.

Of course you have the right to not be harassed.
Then I suppose there's no reason why people shouldn't block your access, or anyone else's access, to hospitals or clinics when they find out people they dislike need any treatment, is there. Or to your place of work. I mean, it's only harassment, right? You don't have a right to not be harassed on your way to work. How would you like people being hired to physically block access to your workplace, your home, public services etc. on the basis of you being dislikable? It'd only be "exercising a right to free speech" to say you shouldn't be allowed to live in peace. Let others exercise that and just deal with the harassment!
"Then I suppose there's no reason why people shouldn't block your access, or anyone else's access, to hospitals or clinics when they find out people they dislike need any treatment, is there." That's a strawman. This post is about stopping protest in front of abortion clinics. If people are denying others access, then it's a crime already. Most protests occur near the entrance, but do not restrict access. "Or to your place of work. I mean, it's only harassment, right? You don't have a right to not be harassed on your way to work." No, nobody should have the right to silence other people because they can't handle what are just words. "How would you like people being hired to physically block access to your workplace, your home, public services etc. on the basis of you being dislikable? It'd only be "exercising a right to free speech" to say you shouldn't be allowed to live in peace. Let others exercise that and just deal with the harassment!" Physically blocking access to a location that you do not own is not harassment, it's assault, and, again, already illegal.
It's not. You're arguing that the act of protesting abortion clinics via harassment and abuse is a special case. I don't think it deserves that distinction, at all. A protest is a protest: we are discussing the act of people assembling at a location in order to attempt to convince people that their actions are wrong. However, you are defending harassment and abuse as valid forms of protest. By that you are making it possible for people to protest against your own existence (which is a topic that should be open to protest, because of free speech) via the same means used to "protest" abortions. Or did you not read the article which clearly says the no-go zones are to prevent impediment to providing services? If you want it to be possible to impede people to receive services as a form of protest, I can argue to impede you to receive services as a form of protest. Such as healthcare, transportation, any service provided by a business.
No, you are misunderstanding what I am saying. I'm not saying it is a strawman because your argument deals with other examples (hospital, workplace, etc.). It's a strawman because you are talking about people physically restricting access to others, while I am talking about people who harass and protest in front of abortion clinics. Physical restriction of access is assault and already illegal, and is a violation of other's rights. Harassment should not be illegal and is not a violation of another person's rights. Yes, it should be a valid form of protest. You assume that I am like you(afraid of words). I don't believe government has a right to restrict speech, however hateful it is. You're muddying the waters. There are two different kinds of "impediment": physical and verbal. If a protestor or a group of protestors physically blocks access to a building that they don't own, that is assault, and a violation of rights. If a protestor or a group of protestors shouts mean things at people going inside, that is no actually impediment, and it should not be illegal as it does not violate the rights of the people entering the building.
Dude, I'm not reading your replies, you don't know how to quote properly on Reddit nor how to break up your ideas into paragraphs. Your arguments are clearly not well-thought out either. Your protesters are not losing the ability to speak, they are not being put in prison for speaking. They are being told to back off and they cannot speak where they wanted to (location of speech is not a protected right, the speech itself is) because they abused their privilege and turned "speech" into physical impediment. Deal with that. Now goodbye.

Replying separately to avoid walls of text and keep arguments in their own lines of discussion. It's not just words, it would be people getting physically in your way in order to prevent your entry into a building. Same as what's happening with these "protesters". Exactly, so you should really have no issue with people being told to stay back a certain distance in order to avoid impeding access to services. This wouldn't be necessary if these "protesters" could handle exercising free speech in a respectable and dignified manner, such as not getting in people's (physical) way. They are incapable of this: the law has to protect people's access to services. You want a right to free speech, don't endanger it by doing all sorts of stupid and illegal stuff with it.
"It's not just words, it would be people getting physically in your way in order to prevent your entry into a building. Same as what's happening with these "protesters"." Physically blocking access is already a crime, why not just increase enforcement of existing laws rather than make new blanket ones that outlaw political speech. "Exactly, so you should really have no issue with people being told to stay back a certain distance in order to avoid impeding access to services." By your logic, you should be on board the banning of all drivers from driving on highways because some people don't drive responsibly. We shouldn't ban whole groups based on the actions of a few of them, we should arrest the few that are breaking laws that already exist. How can this be seen as anything but restriction of political speech when you admit that the people causing the problems are already committing crimes? By your own admission the only thing this accomplishes is punishing non-spitters and non-assaulters and making some protest itself illegal. "This wouldn't be necessary if these "protesters" could handle exercising free speech in a respectable and dignified manner, such as not getting in people's (physical) way. They are incapable of this: the law has to protect people's access to services." Again, the majority of protestors likely don't do any of these things and your are outlawing their right to protest. "You want a right to free speech, don't endanger it by doing all sorts of stupid and illegal stuff with it." Someone's right to free speech is not supposed to be subject to another's actions. In the same way, it's immoral to restrict a gun-owner's, who has never done anything wrong in their life, right to bear arms based on the actions of a few dozen people who already break existing laws.
So you're defending spitting on people, yelling at them, and harassment as legal and protected forms of protest? Since when are abuse and harassment legally protected anyways? This is a great move, no point in tolerating intolerance. People can protest but they cannot abuse others in doing so, that's when they get on the wrong side of "freedom". Your freedom does not mean you are free to curb others' freedoms.
"So you're defending spitting on people, yelling at them, and harassment as legal and protected forms of protest?"No, I'm saying taking away the right to protest over a few people spitting is not an effective or fair solution. How hard is it for police to just remove the individuals who are actually causing the problems and committing the crimes? "This is a great move, no point in tolerating intolerance" You don't even know the full extent of what you are saying. What type of intolerance is intolerable? How far can one go before it's a crime? Are only some types of speech fair to restrict? You are moving into a dangerous area where government gets to subjectively determine what types of political speech is acceptable. I just wish you all were less ignorant and could see that.
Life is not fair, that's why we have laws. Laws exist to make people behave who can't be bothered to moderate their own behavior. It's not fair to those who seek abortion services to have to be harassed while accessing those services, either. But here you are, saying they should be OK with it, and the protesters get to have their slice of cake and eat it too. Nope. It gets to be UNfair for both sides, or rather: the law steps in to make it fairer for the side for whom it was unjust before. Protesters are not banned from protesting, they just can't do it willy-nilly anymore. If you're defending "fairness" in general you can't defend it only for the side you like. Exactly the type of intolerance that leads to people having fewer choices than others when both sides are considered. In this case, there were fewer choices for people attempting to access abortion services, because intimidation is a real factor. That is no longer allowed. In return, protesters have fewer choices, because they were by and large abusing their freedom here. They can no longer abuse others in their exercise of speech. That is an acceptable aim. If it takes abuse for you to make people change their minds, you are nothing but a bully anyways and do not deserve protection for your actions. Any type of speech that restricts choice and aims to dominate one side in favor of another is "fair game" to be restricted. The goal is to offer more choice in life, not less, while keeping in mind that your ability to choose cannot hinder mine and vice-versa. Compromise is the key. The law gets to decide that compromise. They don't exactly do it without following the rules of society we have ALL agreed to follow, called "the law". That is what a government is for: the people. Not just "this group of people I happen to favor, which I call protesters". EVERYONE. I wish you could be less ignorant and see that.
"If you're defending "fairness" in general you can't defend it only for the side you like." So which side is more worthy of defending. People who cannot handle words, or people who are using political speech? That's the difference between authoritarianism and relative freedom. Pick wisely please. "In this case, there were fewer choices for people attempting to access abortion services, because intimidation is a real factor. That is no longer allowed. In return, protesters have fewer choices, because they were by and large abusing their freedom here. They can no longer abuse others in their exercise of speech. That is an acceptable aim." Rights are not supposed to be subject to which side has less choices. "Any type of speech that restricts choice and aims to dominate one side in favor of another is "fair game" to be restricted. The goal is to offer more choice in life, not less, while keeping in mind that your ability to choose cannot hinder mine and vice-versa. Compromise is the key. The law gets to decide that compromise." So you don't know what rights are, or you just don't believe rights should exist then. Rights aren't dynamic and are not supposed to shift with the feelings of the people who are around while the right is being exercised. By your logic, speech that is offensive ought to be illegal because it can possibly restrict the choices of some. In that case, almost all speech ought to be outlawed because it can possibly restrict the choices of people. Also, by your logic, some speech is to be illegal only in certain company. Do you see how subjectivity of rights is not a good idea? Rights are not here to "offer more choice in life" they are here to protect a basic freedom of a human being. "They don't exactly do it without following the rules of society we have ALL agreed to follow, called "the law". That is what a government is for: the people. Not just "this group of people I happen to favor, which I call protesters". EVERYONE." Funny, because this action restricts the rights of every single person who lives under it, while only "helping" those who use abortion clinics. Again, you seem to have a strong ignorance of what rights are for.
These are not "people who cannot handle words", any more than your "people using political speech" are merely that, when they are actually bullies and abusers. Get it? Stop making your side into the good guys just because you think they are. They are not: they are the guys who'd prevent a woman from getting health services and terminating an unborn baby to avoid life-altering circumstances against her will. That is all there is to it; their cause is not worthy just because you want it to be, and their saying "something" doesn't make it valuable per se. Their political speech is less precious than the ability of people to control and direct their own lives, period.
"These are not "people who cannot handle words", any more than your "people using political speech" are merely that, when they are actually bullies and abusers." "Bully" is a word you are using to describe people who say mean things. Just because people cannot handle mean words does not mean we should restrict the right for people to say them, sorry. "Stop making your side into the good guys just because you think they are." They aren't "my side" I think people who verbally harass people at abortion clinics are despicable, that doesn't mean I wouldn't die to defend their right to free speech. This is the difference between an authoritarian(you) and someone who values freedom(me). I don't need speech to be saying something I agree with for me to want to defend their right to say it. "Their political speech is less precious than the ability of people to control and direct their own lives, period." At least you admit that you don't think rights should exist. Thanks for sharing, Adolf.
Nope. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bullying Maybe check your definitions next time because your ignorance is showing. The physical component of bullying should definitely be restricted and this entire article was about doing exactly that. Which is the point you keep missing by voluntarily ignoring that it's gone beyond words. Which is why this law has been put into place. Once and for all: these protesters are not being gagged. They are being told to move the hell out of the way. Stop reinterpreting the facts to suit your politically-charged narrative. And here you show that you see no problem with accusing others of using strawmen (incorrectly), yet here you resort to one. Plus an ad hominem. I'll interpret this as an admission of loss and guilt. Thanks.



It's people like these that we have to keep fighting against. The ignorance of this powerful man makes me incredibly sad... and agitated.
But what happened to #lovethemboth? And #lifefromconceptiontonaturaldealth? Oh.... right. It's because pro lifers don't actually care about life, but rather forcing their values on others.
The most insane thing I've read today
What manner of Handmaid's-tale-level bullshit is this? Is this really the reality American women are living in? It reminds me of when Trump said women should be punished for abortions: https://www.cnn.com/2016/03/30/politics/donald-trump-abortion-town-hall/index.html
I don’t know how he can deny in a later tweet that he never suggested women should get the death penalty for having an abortion. The evidence is clear. He almost could have denied it based on the original question being about criminalization or the death penalty, but when the question was then reduced to just the death penalty he still agreed. I’m glad he received so much flak for this view. Hopefully the social pressure is enough to keep him from ever actually trying to create that legislation.
These women have been through enough. They don't need this.

"A bill introduced in Ohio in March would ban all abortions and allow criminal charges against doctors as well as patients who get the procedure. The bill would categorize an abortion as a homicide, meaning doctors and patients could get life in prison or the death penalty, according to NPR." We live in the motherfuckin' Handmaid's Tale.
This is a post looking for engaging debate. I was watching Dillahunty's debate with I don't remember her name and the whole debate was not centered about personhood but rather sovereignty over one's body. If you think it's important to say that the fetus is not a person then that's up for another debate, but for this, I'll put the playing rules as the fetus is a person and critique the position that one's sovereignty over one's body is enough reason to kill a person.That position goes hand in hand with statements like "you are not obligated to donate your organ" and that's one of the main arguments.My issue with that, though, is that the sovereignty over one's body is equal to other sovereignties. What do I do with my body is, as Britney said, my prerogative. But also, what do I do with my time, my food, my other property(as we are sovereign over our own bodies because we recognize they are our property), my money and my house. There's nothing special about "body" when compared with, say, "time" or "food" or "property". I am sovereign over all those things. So if the argument "you can't tell me what to do with my body because it's MY body" holds true, then "you can't tell me what to do with my time/money/resources/house" is equally true. But we don't recognize that or accept that when it comes to parenting. You are indeed forced to pay for your children, feed them, clothe them, give them a house, give them your time and attention, specially when they're dependent on those things you're giving them.You can't say "this newborn baby is not paying rent, takes off from my health, my sleep, my time, my money so I'll stop providing those for it", kick him out of the house and left to die. We say that's monstruous, but if the sovereignty(specially regarding one's property) principle is to be maintained, that person should have the freedom to not maintain someone he doesn't want to, because it's HIS life, HIS decision, HIS time, HIS house, etc... I don't see why pro-choicers treat sovereignty over one's body as being specially important in comparison to the other types of sovereignties we have, less so, that difference being so important as to be the key difference between monstruous murder and empowering right
I find it crazy that people do not donate blood nor are they forced to sign up for bone marrow registries. You can save lives by donating blood. Donating blood is far less invasive, time consuming, and risky to a person’s health than being pregnant (want to know how many women I have seen with CHF due to being pregnant?). Bone marrow donation is more time consuming and can involve some side effects from medications but you’re still saving lives! Another consideration is that people tend to put a lot of emphasis on saving this precious life but they don’t do shit for it after it is born or no longer a baby. In fact, in my experiences people act like it is a huge inconvienece that the woman has four kids and can’t afford to feed them so she applied to snap. Or why should a man pay for birth control benefits? Let’s fix the world we have with the people currently here before we force women to birth children. (For the record, I donate regularly blood and would donate marrow if I matched. I am o- cmv - so apparently they will use my blood for traumas or young infants)
I'm not sure about the bone marrow registries but I think there's a crucial difference between these cases and abortion. You didn't cause or are directly responsible for every person who may need a bone marrow or blood and that's why we aren't forced to do it, and the fact that people need such things are because of unnatural illnesses. A pregnancy is direct responsibility of the parents, they caused it to happen, and it's the natural progression of a natural process. Without reproduction there's no people, no nothing, so we can say reproduction is something good and natural, while people needing a bone marrow or something like that is not quite the same thing as they most likely need it because of an accident or illness. Also, we don't tell parents that they need to donate, but if someone caused me to need blood, then I would say he should be obligated to provide that. There are more nuances and some abortionists dwell in the nuances and gray areas in a fashion that I think is not quite honest, because you can do that with any topic to lead any which way, but in general and most cases of abortion it's quite clear that the parents do have a responsibility, because they've caused it, the baby is very vulnerable and there's a special relationship that doesn't fit the case of a random stranger(or even son) needing a blood donation. In my country recently there has been passed that deceased people are automatically assumed to be donors unless they specifically rejected it, and many have protested against it. I don't understand their logic as they say "it's my body, I don't give consent", but when you're dead... well, you're dead, there's no longer "my body" because there's no longer any legal "I". I accept the sentiment of caring for people always, but there's a distinction many pro-abortionists don't think about. That same logic applies for any other case in which people don't do(or are perceived of not doing) enough for the case. Do you think it's wrong to chain little children in the basement? Well, you can't say anything if you then don't open your house so that child may live in your house rather than with its parents. Do you think rape is wrong? Then you must open your house for all rape victims to go to free counseling. I accept the sentiment and do extend it within reasonable bounds, but one simply doesn't follow the other. You can say "this is wrong" without being forced to then actively do something about it. It's not necessarily hypocritical. I can say it's wrong to steal from people and that doesn't mean I then need to open my wallet and give people, and even if it were hypocritical it wouldn't detract from the main argument that stealing is wrong and should not be accepted within society. I'm not sure what you mean by this. They are not exclusive. You can work for one or the other or for both. Also saying "force women" to birth children is dishonest. No one is forcing a woman to get pregnant. What we aim to do is to say that all claims made by pro-abortionists are logically flawed, dishonest or inconsistent with an individual/society's principles at large, and therefore there's no justification(much less so a powerful one) to allow the murder of fellow human beings because of their vulnerability. It's like saying fathers who refuse to feed their children and which cause their children to die are "slaves being forced to maintain an unwanted person", it's just not an intellectually honest claim. If you say everyone who is not allowed to kill another one is then "forced to X" then it sounds like a teenager saying he's a slave without rights when their parents say the can't inject heroin in their eyeballs.
Since you say no woman is forced to get pregnant, stay pregnant, or give birth, I assume you’re in favor of abortion rights for rape victims? Since they didn’t choose to have sex, they didn’t cause an unwanted pregnancy.
As I also said, pro-abortionists in an inconsistent manner draw attention to the rare and nuanced cases in order to establish a precedent and try to generalize it. It's like taking the case of a killing under self-defense and trying then to justify Rhwanda. They are two categories apart. The vast majority of abortions are not due to abortion just as the vast majority of murders are not made in self-defense. Would you agree that a regular pregnancy is not product of rape and that they belong to two different categories and that committing abortion under a regular non-rape pregnancy is indeed wrong? If not, if we don't even agree on the vast majority of cases, why would we go to the more nuanced ones?
This is a good post with a good question. I'd like to see how it's tackled.
I'd like to see it too :P


A very excellent analysis. If we push it through in Ireland, it will be a huge win for Reproductive Rights.

I and every literally every rational human being don't really care. Yet Pro-Lifers who are intellectually honest should consider this event worse than 9/11. They should have a remembrance day and anniversary for this event every single year. They should make documentaries, films, and all sorts of media that commemorates this awful tragedy..... yet they don't and they won't because they are intellectually dishonest and don't really care about the value of embryo as "human beings".
Exactly . Where are all the ‘ thoughts and prayers ‘ for these ‘ unborn babies ‘
I'm pro-life but not religious. My thoughts are with these people who were destroyed before they got a chance. IVF should be outlawed.
And when I say don't care. I don't mean the post. I'm glad this was posted. I mean the issue of Embyro loss.
It was still these people's choice taken away from them. The embryos themselves are meaningless, but the people who stored them there just had one of their options taken away. That should be enough to care about.
No, they don't and won't because this mass death has less effect on them in general than the 9/11 attacks. Grieving the 9/11 attacks is easy for anyone to do because it effects them directly, is something that could happen to them, and amounted to many honorable acts of heroism that ended in death. It is hard for most people to be sad for someone they never knew. It is hard for people to fear something that cannot harm them or their loved ones. And it is hard for people to look back on an event that ended in death alone, again to people they never knew, with no hope, no heroes, no justice..
If 4000 people died because of an accident, you bet it would be on the local news. Disasters with much fewer death tolls get insane out of coverage. The main reason no one cares is that we understand it unreasonable to treat Embryos as persons.
Yes, this should be on local news. It would seem that the news is dominated by pro-abortion peoples (which I've known for a long time). Some people do care that these humans died, but what news is that when three million others die every year? It is very painful to love people who die in such extreme numbers. Very few people can bear to do it anymore, and begin to lose hope.
That... sucks.

It started with Doug Jones. A pro-choice democrat winning in one of the most pro-life states ever. Then Conor Lamb, a Pro-Choice Catholic, who also had a huge win. And now here we are. The tide is turning and we #notgoingback
Given the diversity of thought, I just wanted to take an informal survey on where you all stand as to your religious views and how they impact your views on Abortion.Though we most non-Christians are highly pro-choice.You have examples such as Dr. Willie Parker, an abortion doctor whose Christian views are a motivation for his service to provide abortions.
Atheist. It makes me take only science into account for my views on abortion.
I am an ordained minister. I completely support abortion. Most religions have wonderful missives about what western folks refer to as The Golden Rule. Most religions are also in support of mercy and compassion. I’m also a foster parent. I see firsthand how many children do not get adopted, how many are tossed to and fro in the system, and how hard opiate addiction is affecting innocent children in the US. I mention this because pro-life tends to support adoption...but they are not stepping up to the plate.
It is so frustrating how many people use it as an excuse
I apologize for the rude and frankly degenerate comments from u/LiterallyJohnCalvin and he has been banned from the sub for an indefinite time. However, I did have some questions. How would you respond to the Catholic Positions on Abortion? Likewise, what do you say to the mainline Evangelical Protestants who make up the Majority of the Pro-Life movement? What denomination are you part off and what you scripture and theology do you use to support your pro-choice position?
I am first a librarian, and am secondly a Unitarian Universalist minister. The beliefs of other denominations are the choice of people of those faiths. By and large, Unitarians are quite liberal, and we study a vast array of religions and religious thought. I'm uncertain why you are asking, it seems a bit combative? If you are familiar with the pantheon of Celtic Gods and Goddesses, you'll see that my user name comes from a Celtic goddess. I have worked as a clinic escort, and as I mentioned, am also a foster parent. Jack of a whole lotta trades...
I apologize if it came off that way, I come from a strict Calvinist/Catholic background that is very anti-abortion and they justify their stance through a lot of scripture, theology, and tradition. It's really rare for me to meet people who are Pro-Choice because of their faith, so that is why I am interested in their experiences. Thank you again for sharing.
[removed]
uh, I'm not killing my foster children... What????
[removed]
Reprobate...man, I haven't heard that word since I was a clinic escort in Charlotte. F- for creativity. You need to pick up some new vocabulary words, honey!
[removed]
Awww, thanks for playing. Here's your consolation prize...I've blocked you, and you'll never have to speak to me again.
Might wanna take a look at Rule #3 over to the right on the rules of this sub.
He's gone. I was tempted to argue with him considering he is a Calvinist and he believes that God has pre-ordained some people towards hell, so he can't really get mad at abortions. However, I decided it would be better to just rationally enforce the rules.
Atheist , have been since I was about 8. Here is the Uk, non religious people are nearly 50% of the population https://www.google.co.uk/amp/s/amp.theguardian.com/world/2017/may/13/uk-losing-faith-religion-young-reject-parents-beliefs
Atheist (formerly interested in Wicca/paganism, if that matters any). And while I know that people can absolutely be religious and pro-choice, I also definitely think that being an atheist helps- you don't have to do those big mental hurdles to "get there", I guess. I am very in awe of those folks who are proudly pro-choice in their Christianity, though- it'd be so much easier to go with the crowd, so good on them for speaking out on how their faith can actually bolster support for abortion rights.
Yeah I listening to an interesting podcast ( Don’t stop repealing) and they interviewed a prochoice Catholic
Secular humanist.  We can argue about the merits of a soul or we can fix the real problems around the world that are associated with unwanted pregnancy and overpopulation.  I don't know about anyone else, but I prefer to work on problems we know exist rather than ones we speculate on.
Agnostic atheist. Raised Lutheran. I was prochoice when I was religious.
I’m an agnostic Jewish Humanist with extensive training in Jewish studies and I’ve very prochoice, pro-reproductive rights, and pro-family.
Could you define "Pro-Family"? Because in the U.S that usually means being against LGBTQIA rights.
Nope. For me, it’s pro things like paid parental leave, guaranteed sick leave, subsidized child care, universal healthcare, living wages, workers rights, affordable housing, and so on.
I am a pagan now, former Christian. But I was pro-choice even back when I was a Christian.
Christian, but I want to convert to something else. My parents programmed me to be "pro-life", but I become pro-choice.
What would you like to convert too?
I'm an atheist but I'm starting to get into r/radicalchristianity From what I gather, a radical Christian is an advocate for women's rights, among many other things that I think align with pro-choice. I'm still learning though.
I'm atheist and pro choice, although I was also an atheist when I was anti choice. I don't think it has much impact on my opinion, aside from the fact that I will never use a supernatural reason to justify my beliefs.
What made you change your mind?
Well, I was only 13 or 14 when I was anti choice, and I can honestly say it was an opinion I grew out of. I thought women deserved to be punished for having "irresponsible" sex, then I grew up a bit (was still only 15 or 16) and realized that was a fucked up way to think. I was shocked when I got a few years older and met full grown adults who were against abortion. I seriously thought it was like Santa, where everyone eventually figures out they were wrong...
I’m an atheist so I am not bound by rigid belief systems dictated to me through priests and various religious leaders. Or picking and choosing out of a book (homosexuality is immoral! But I’ll ignore the bit about diet restrictions or wearing mixed fabrics). Or Pastor Bob said all life is sacred? Oh, so no more meat? Oh you think he meant human life? So do you support healthcare and food stamps? Oh, young Billy with cancer and his family should suffer with high debt related to cancer because it inconveniences you and surely god is punishing them/teaching them a lesson/wants them to find a way on their own... I lack a belief in religion but I have had Christians and Muslims tell me that ignoring the lack of belief in a higher power, I am a better Christian or Muslim than most through my actions.

I believe Cecile Richards.
Oh, for sure. What I mean by the title is that it sounds almost like a set up.
This question arose in my psych class today. For some background, we had an open discussion about the execution of the mentally ill, which I came into believing that it is not ok, since people cannot help their mental illness and what that entails(even if it may be the delusion that killing people is ok). My professor brought up that ideas of life contradict when it comes to pro abortion but anti execution. I still believe these two things, I just need justification I guess?
For all the fetus represents, it's not a person yet except in the minds of parents who want it (and some who don't, but understand that this potential growing into an actual person is problematic for them). It's really just a person-in-becoming; it's less than a born baby, but the newborn is less a person (mentally) than a two-year-old, who is less than a twenty-year-old, although the baby and older all share the same legal protections. When we hear "save the women and children first", what we're hearing is an appeal to the potential and future of the people: save the (fertile) women (so they can have more kids), save the children (so they can grow into adults that carry on our values). We save the men last because unfortunately men are often seen as disposable thus heroic in their sacrifice, but that's a different topic entirely. When you kill a fetus, you are killing a living being, but it often can't survive on its own, and that death serves the purpose of letting the parents carry on with their own already established lives and potential. They already have ties to the community, jobs, time and money invested in them, which they are contributing back, the fetus does not (unless it's wanted, in which case there would be no abortion). The parents represent memories and goals for themselves and for other people (the fetus does not, unless it's wanted--no abortion there again.) The parents get to choose if a potential life comes and takes away their time, but it has to be their choice. We have reason, we know that having children unprepared is one of the worst gambles you can make with people's lives, even if society seems to say "eh, everyone does it"... well maybe it's time to evolve past that mentality, finally. Capital punishment is ... unusual. People often say "it's simply not acceptable", I disagree. I believe there are cases where the evidence is absolutely overwhelming, the criminal is severely socially / mentally / emotionally impaired; they have no valuable ties to society; they have no potential left to offer. Sometimes they justify their crimes, admit them freely, are unrepentant in a sense or another. These people can and should die, they are a burden to society otherwise. I am not OK with capital punishment when there is even a shred of doubt, and as we progress scientifically it seems there'll be less and less of those cases. Regarding executing the mentally ill: if we don't execute criminals who have done harm to society, there is really no argument to executing the mentally or genetically ill, not really sure why that was suggested. Not all types of death represent the same type of burden. I wonder why your professor didn't mention euthanasia and self-assisted suicide, too. :)
Capital punishment does not "fix" the original crime, or change its nature. I believe that for some, they feel that capital punishment is "justice" or "revenge" for their lost loved one. However, killing another human does nothing for the victim. Even though families say that they have some sense of "closure," their grief will continue on. Abortion clears a mistake prior to it becoming a real, viable human. It is not a form of punishment, as capital punishment is meant to be. Abortion is often a relief, a mercy, and can be life-saving for some people. If it were done to be vindictive, the comparison between it and capital punishment might fly,  bit as it stands, the two are not even in the same category. Abortions are not sought out of justice and revenge, but out of many factors, which may include regret, mistake, love, mercy, compassion, etc.
Most people don't become murders. Abortion is clearing more "good" people than "bad".
That is not the matter at issue. Abortion simply clears an embryo or a fetus, not a living, breathing, viable human. It clears mistakes without consideration of "good" or "bad". The mistake is not that of the embryo or fetus, but that of the parent who did not intend to bear a child at the time of the procedure.
All I'm pointing out is that abortionprevents more good people from being born. Both prevent future life.
Again, not the issue at hand.
What is the issue exactly? You say it's "clearing a mistake" but most people don't turn out to be murderers so you are "clearing" more good than bad.
We are not debating what an aborted embryo or fetus may turn out to be. As I stated before, the mistake is that of the person who did not intend to become pregnant and carry a pregnancy to term. This is with absolutely no consideration of what that embryo/fetus' future may have been.
So you are not debating anything OP brought up?
Oh my dear goodness.
Unless you are a psychic, you have zero way of knowing that. Most people probably fall along the lines of neutral anyway. Very few people would fall under my considerationnof good because they don’t actively volunteer, donate, help others, etc.
So they (edit: don't) deserve to be alive because they don't donate? Okay so maybe most won't volunteer or donate as much as you like but they won't become murders. You don't have to be psychic to know most people never kill.
So your definition of good is not killing? Wow. Your definition of good is extremely broad. You do realize that there are a lot of crimes and cruelty that do not involve killing? Also, notice I said most people are neutral? Most people are neither good or evil. They just are. They may commit some good deeds but may also do some selfish ones. They just are. Majority of people are like this. They may say they are a good person but in all honesty, they are neither good or bad. They just are. It is unsettling for a lot of people to attempt to think about it because people pride themselves on being “good.” Also, murder is a funny term. Murder would be the unlawful killing of a person.
I disagree. I believe most people are more good than bad or even neutral. This is why we have advanced as a more self-aware species than any other. Yeah some people do bad things, but in general we have grown together as a more globalized community in just the past few decades. Yes bad people do bad things but they are the minority in every country. What I'm saying is that these people deserve to live out their own lives, even if you don't think they will meet your qualifications of being "good". Do you consider yourself a good person? If so why? What makes you better than most?
But when your criteria for being good is not killing people than it is pretty easy to fall under good.
I never said not murdering automatically makes someone a "good" person.

I think you can look at this from multiple angles. First, you can talk about rights. You can believe that persons and human beings have a right to life, and you can argue that a fetus does not qualify for personhood and thus does not enjoy the rights that a criminal would have. You could also say, that you are okay with a criminal being killed, but you simply don't believe that right should exist with the state, due to for example the number of innocent people that have been executed.
Aborting a fetus is more controversial. Aborting an embryo much less so. An embryo has no consciousness and no personhood. It's not a person. It has no rights. Ideologically, I'm not really opposed to death penalty at all times but practically because of its irreversibility and the possibility of killing an innocent person it might be wrong. I don't have a strong opinion on it one way or the other though.
There is no moral conflict between pro-choice and anti-death penalty positions. Abortion is acceptable because it is an immediate action that is taken in response to the violation of a person’s right to bodily autonomy in order to prevent that violation from continuing. A more proper comparison to abortion would be acting in self-defense. If someone is trying to kill you (or otherwise grossly violate your bodily autonomy) then it is moral to use as much force as is necessary to prevent that from occurring, up to and including lethal means. Executing a prisoner is also usually an action taken in response to the violation of a person’s right to bodily autonomy, but it does not prevent that violation. That is the key difference between the two. So that leaves one spot open in our comparison. What would be a lethal action taken in response to a pregnancy that doesn’t prevent said pregnancy? That would be infanticide, and I think that most people agree that is morally wrong. TL;DR:  self-defense:capital punishment::abortion:infanticide
I find that there's a very tenuous thread between abortion and capital punishment that seems to hinge only on a single commonality (loss of life).  In all other aspects, they are vastly different: capital punishment is meant to either be punitive or have a deterrent effect, unlike abortion.  One involves the state prosecuting the accused through the judicial system and carrying out punishment, while the other is a private transaction.  Public health concerns come into play with abortion, but not capital punishment.  They're just not similar, and because of that, it's a bit disingenuous to compare the two, much less suggest hypocrisy for support for only one or both stances at the same time. The reasons that I largely oppose capital punishment are quite different from the reasons that I support abortion rights and I find no cognitive dissonance there.
A fetus, by definition, lives off its mother’s body. If the mother doesn’t consent to having that fetus live off of her or if the mother stops consenting for whatever reason, abortion is allowable. Capital punishment has nothing to do with forcing one person to use her body against her will.
Aborting a fetus is more like killing a criminal who is still in the process of committing a violent crime. Abortion prevents bodily harm; execution does not.
Capital punishment is unnecessary execution of a person who probably committed a crime (let's say they did commit it for simplicity). It's used as a punishment and as a deterrent. Abortion is more like self defense. If I can kill a person breaking into my house (and I can), why can't I kill a person breaking into my uterus?
Unless the mentally ill are sewn into other prople to live off of their bodies, it isn’t bearly the same. Think of it like units. The fetus is an incomplete unit. It is parasitic. It takes nutrients from blood and passes waste off to the host. It cannot be passed to other people. It causes health problems. Mentally ill are a complete unit. They can be transferred to caregiver to caregiver if necessary.

Good for you.
Why are you even bringing up capital punishment and crime in a thread about abortion? The two issues have nothing to do with each other other than preventing future human life.
A professor used this as an argument and I just wanted to know other people’s opinions on why this is not a valid argument
What was your professor trying to argue? What was the debate? It is not morally justified to kill the mentally ill or criminals, or growing humans.
If you could read the description to my description of the question,  we had to debate wether the death penalty should be applied to the mentally ill... and to all the people that were against capital punishment in general, they decided to bring these two topics up. Most of the people in my class were pro choice...
Would you say you are also anti death penalty and pro elective abortion (as in do you support abortion in instances where the mother's life is not specifically in danger)?
Yup.
Why are you anti-death penalty?
Because the people on death row tend to be of lower income because they are unable to higher good enough lawyers, along with the fact that there’s always a possibility that the person didn’t actually commit the crime.

I’m not bringing up anything, as I am not the original poster.


People have a right to different opinions, but not different facts. Excellent Article.
Excellent facts list.




Eh, I'm sure a lot of anti-abortion folks know this and either truly believe, or at least profess to believe, that there are more conceptions that naturally fail to come to term than those that do. Doesn't matter to them, though . . . that's why they love the phrase "from conception to natural death" and generally oppose assisted suicide.  Doesn't matter if someone with terminal illness is suffering, or if an embryo isn't, so long as it's God doing the killing, it's okay.  Once people try to assert their own will- that's the sin.
I don't understand why they worship this monster they call God. Is it fear? Because he sure as hell doesn't deserve it.
Have you never heard of the saying the "vengeful god"?
They claim to believe in a "benevolent god," but I've never seen much evidence of his alleged benevolence.
Only modern Christians do.  And they say they do, I don't know if they believe that..  God was hateful and vengeful for most of history, you can't shake that in just 50 years. Either way, I am an atheist, so i don't give a shit.
I'm also an atheist so I'm not trying to argue. I just don't understand how a pro-life Christian would reconcile "benevolent god" and "kills 67% of 'people' that will ever exist."  Intellectual dishonesty is a helluva drug.
I actually don’t find it that hard. They believe in a better place after death, so the only people that should really have a problem with death is us.
You’re giving them too much credit
Yeah, I don't expect that they think that much into it. Probably: "Pregnancy good; women's rights bad."
And you wonder why we can't stand you.
I would accept that as a truth.  Most humans are never born.  Good point OP.
The start of a new human life is scientifically determined, and has nothing to do with mortality rates at different ages. Those are two separate categories. We've known that a new human life begins when conception is successfully completed since the mid-1800s, and advancements in technology constantly confirm this. In the same way, whether or not recognizing the zygote as a full human person legally/Constitutionally has nothing to do with when the new human life comes into existence. The facts of the matter are rather simple. A sperm enters an ovum, combining the genetic information together. Sometimes this event creates a hydatiform mole. Sometimes it creates a choriocarcinoma. But most of the time, a new human being comes into existence. We know it is a new human being (and the start of a new human organism) because it enters an entirely new class of biological classification when it begins to develop. Sperm do not develop. Eggs do not develop. Tumors do not develop. Human organisms develop. Regardless of the consequences that you bring up, life does, in fact, begin at conception.
Source? Here is a quote that may be of interest to you. "The idea that "life begins at conception" is not a scientific one. Since the disproof of 'spontaneous generation' (1668-1859), we have known that life only derives from life. Life arose billions of years ago and has continued since as a cycle. Assigning a beginning to a cycle (like the year) is arbitrary." -- Dr. Robert Wyman, (Professor of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1998‑present Program Director, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Undergraduate Science Education Program, 1989‑present Professor of Biology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1980‑1998) Source? I would say technology confirms the opposite. There is absolutely no sense in which life, whatever is meant by the term, could be said to commence during the process of conception. Conception is a process, not a distinct point in time. The process of conception, also known as fertilization, involves many chemical reactions and processes. It is not an instantaneous occurrence. Somewhere along that set of chemical reactions, which finally result in two cells with a unique human genetic combination (the zygote immediately after the fusion of sperm has two pronuclei – one from the sperm and one from the ovum), are we to say that a single human life has started? If so, at what point does that happen? The fact of the matter is that conception is no less of an arbitrary ‘line in the sand’ than any other point that one picks, such as the development of the brain, birth or development of self-awareness. Good job ignoring my question. I provided an inquiry into what would happen if we legally granted the fetus personhood like you claim and you seemed to have ignored the consequences that I outlined on what this what entails. A unique genome is not required to form a human being (e.g. identical twins, or clones, or human parthenotes) and unique genomes often do not form human beings (e.g. mutated genomes of cancers or the modified genome of induced pluripotent stem cells). Unless we are willing to admit that melanomas are actually human beings because they have a different genome, and that a woman who is pregnant with her clone (or identical twin) is not actually pregnant with a human being, then this argument should be abandoned. Source?  You also have to define the criteria for what you consider life, what you consider organism and so on. Science by its nature is fairly open-ended and you need to define proper terms for this debate. For example, science can tell us what a ball of cells looks like at various stages of development, but it doesn't tell us what to call it. That is because science is not a collection of facts handed down from on high, but a method by which we learn about the world. Science can definitely inform our terminology, however. For instance, we know that "human organism" is a much messier term than you might expect. For example, let's look at tumors. They are genetically distinct, and some of them can live in a petri dish. Some tumors are communicable; are those parasitic organisms, or are they just balls of cells? Occasionally, a blastocyst that doesn't get flushed out can become cancerous. Is that cancer an "individual human organism?" Even if the blastocyst is viable, miscarriages are very common. Are those all "individual human organisms" that are dying? It is also possible in many mammals, if a pregnant female is under stress, for the uterus to reject a fetus. It has been suggested that this can happen in humans (although, ignorant Republican statements aside, this is still a scientific controversy). Should the woman be held accountable for murder if this happens? There are a lot of problems with just postulating definitions without giving proper evidence to back those definitions up. Once again can we see some scientific evidence? And not out of context textbook quotes and statements from pro-life doctors, but actual scientific reaserch on this issue.
I mean alot of people die of cancer and heart disease, that's just a sad fact of life/nature.
Your source link is either wrong, broken or fake. https://academic.oup.com/humanrep/article/16/2/326/649647
Full Citation here: Rolfe, Barbara E. 1982. Detection of Fetal Wastage. Fertility and Sterility. Vol. 37, No. 5, pp 655-660, May; and Bonnicksen, Andrea. 1989. In Vitro Fertilization: Building Policy from Laboratories to Legislatures. Columbia University Press, New York, pp 150.
Rebuttal: How does it follow that because nature spontaneously aborts unborn humans that we may deliberately kill them? People die of natural causes, but that does not justify murder. 100% of all conceived embryos die at some point in the lives? Some die sooner rather than later, you and I have made it this far. Even if we could draw a moral conclusion from the percentage of embryos who survive until birth, it should be that life is even more precious than we thought. Embryos should be helped to survive, not have their lives cut short because other embryos don't survive past that point anyway.
The issue I have with your rebuttal is that it ignores a key point you are missing here. During the period of embryonic development that begins with fertilization and ends a few days later with successful implantation of the blastocyst into the uterine wall—the period known as “preimplantation development”—up to 50 percent of human conceptions fail to survive, most likely due to genetic errors in the embryo. Many embryos that result from conception—indeed, the majority of them—lack the capacity to become living human beings. They do not produce disabled humans. They cannot produce any sort of human life. Science and medicine know this. In that sense to say "life begins at conception" is scientifically false. The issue here is that I reject the premise that an embryo is the same as a human being. Think about the moral implications of this. If the Constitution recognized each fertilized ovum as a person, a whole new species of equal protection problem would be born. Each time a state treated a fetus-an "unborn" child-differently from any other child, it would be discriminating against a helpless and manifestly innocent class of people. If a woman's home provided a physical or chemical environment that subjected her children to a 50 percent risk of premature death, the state would surely require those children to be brought up else-where. There are uterine environments that are unhealthy for embryos as well. For example, a female fetus developing in the womb of a woman with an arrhenoblastoma (a male hormone-secreting ovarian tumor) may develop abnormal masculine characteristics. If the same fetus developed in another woman's womb, it would develop into a "normal" female child, unburdened by the many difficulties that anyone with hermaphroditic characteristics will confront." Once the technology was available, it would probably be the state's obligation to require the transfer of a fetus-person to a less hazardous womb, for "foster gestation" by a surrogate mother, under a "best interests of the embryo" standard. All this just isn't really feasible.
Intellectually honest pro-choicers acknowledge the biological fact that a human life begins at conception. When a specific egg and a specific sperm join a specific unique new individual is formed. After, there was simply growth and development. Yes, many such individuals will be miscarried. There is really nothing that can be done to change that. When an individual is aborted- that is where choice enters in. [Langman, Jan. Medical Embryology. 3rd edition. Baltimore: Williams and Wilkins, 1975, p. 3] [O'Rahilly, Ronan and Muller, Fabiola. Human Embryology & Teratology. 2nd edition. New York: Wiley-Liss, 1996, pp. 8, 29. (p. 12)] [Carlson, Bruce M. Patten's Foundations of Embryology. 6th edition. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1996, p. 3] [Moore, Keith L. and Persaud, T.V.N. Before We Are Born: Essentials of Embryology and Birth Defects. 4th edition. Philadelphia: W.B. Saunders Company, 1993, p. 1] [Moore, Keith L. Essentials of Human Embryology. Toronto: B.C. Decker Inc, 1988, p.2] [Cloning Human Beings. Report and Recommendations of the National Bioethics Advisory Commission. Rockville, MD: GPO, 1997, Appendix-2.] [Dox, Ida G. et al. The Harper Collins Illustrated Medical Dictionary. New York: Harper Perennial, 1993, p. 146] [Considine, Douglas (ed.). Van Nostrand's Scientific Encyclopedia. 5th edition. New York: Van Nostrand Reinhold Company, 1976, p. 943] [Jonathan Van Blerkom of University of Colorado, expert witness on human embryology before the NIH Human Embryo Research Panel -- Panel Transcript, February 2, 1994, p. 63]
Completely false. There is absolutely no sense in which life, whatever is meant by the term, could be said to commence during the process of conception. Conception is a process, not a distinct point in time. The process of conception, also known as fertilization, involves many chemical reactions and processes. It is not an instantaneous occurrence. Somewhere along that set of chemical reactions, which finally result in two cells with a unique human genetic combination (the zygote immediately after the fusion of sperm has two pronuclei – one from the sperm and one from the ovum), are we to say that a single human life has started? If so, at what point does that happen? The fact of the matter is that conception is no less of an arbitrary ‘line in the sand’ than any other point that one picks, such as the development of the brain, birth or development of self-awareness. Let's now take a look at the evidence you have cited. The evidence shows us that textbooks are not actually a good indicator for pieces of evidence in this debate: Excerpt from Dr. Ricki Lewis, a science writer with a PhD in genetics and biology and author of several textbooks and thousands of articles in scientific, medical, and embryological publications. “Life science textbooks from traditional publishers don’t explicitly state when life begins, because that is a question not only of biology, but of philosophy, politics, psychology, religion, technology, and emotions. Rather, textbooks list the characteristics of life, leaving interpretation to the reader.” http://blogs.plos.org/dnascience/2013/10/03/when-does-a-human-life-begins-17-timepoints/ Dr. Scott F. Gilbert, a legendary Ph.D from Swarthmore says “As an embryologist and the author of embryological textbooks, I can say with absolute assurance that there is not scientific support on life beginning at conception, this is not a biological fact”. http://phenomena.nationalgeographic.com/2014/11/17/personhood-week-conception-is-a-process/ Here is an excerpt from a lecture by Dr. Robert Wyman, chair of the Yale Biology department: "There is a lot of false misunderstanding out there, We always hear "It is a scientific fact, as any basic biology text will confirm that life does begin at conception. The fetus is a live human being, distinct from, while dependent on, its mother. It deserves the full protection of its rights." That's what's common out there. Not only is it what people, most people personally believe, but it's generally considered to be a scientific fact. I've heard this from pro-life people and pro-choice people, almost indistinguishable. The question is--you've all had high school biology at least, how many of you had college biology? A few of you, guess what? That isn't what--that isn't at all what a beginning biology textbook says. What does it say? This is from--they send professors free copies of textbooks, so I just opened up one that they happened to send me, and it shows something quite different. It shows life as a cycle. There's no start point here. Fertilization is one of the events going around the cycle. This is the essence of sexual reproduction. We also know that there's asexual reproduction, which doesn't have this stuff [fertilization] at all. The cycle is the switch between a haploid genome, which means one copy of each chromosome, and diploid, when each cell has two copies of each chromosome. With sexual reproduction--there's always some version of this one copy/two copies cycle. When we look in detail, this again from the same freshman, very popular, very big selling freshman college biology text. It talks about three different sexual lifecycles. In--the one that you're most familiar with, which is animals. What happens is you start with a--a multi-cellular organism, that's you. Then meiosis--the splitting of the chromosomes so that the gametes get--this is 2N, N being the number of chromosomes, start from 2N, there's a process called meiosis in which pairs split and you get cells with only one copy of each chromosome, those are called gametes or germ cells, and then from another individual you get a second N and you go back to the diploid phase.” - Dr. Robert Wyman http://oyc.yale.edu/sites/default/files/mcdblecture23notes_0.pdf (The full report from Yale on why life does not begin at conception and why textbooks do not say this.) Also, let’s look at some examples from textbooks that you brought up. I will be quoting P.Z Myers a distinguished biologist on this section: “NONSENSE. “Human” in these cases is a general descriptor for the origin of the cells; it’s a statement about the type. You might as well say that that one quote about a “male and female haploid gametes (sperm and egg)” clearly states that sperm and egg are human, therefore science says we ought to criminalize menstruation and masturbation. One other point I have to make about these sources: the Moore and O’Rahilly texts are specifically medical embryology textbooks — they are not good sources for information about general developmental biology, and are a bit blinkered in their perspective, and tend to focus on superficial aspects of descriptive morphology. That’s fine for medical and nursing students, I suppose, but if you want to actually understand the mechanics of development, they’re useless. They’re doubly useless if you read them with an agenda that refuses to be budged by the facts. I can cite scientific literature too! Pass F, Janis R, Marcus DM. (1971) Antigens of human wart tissue. J Invest Dermatol. 56(4):305-10. Warts are human. Ban squaric acid, laser surgery, and topical liquid nitrogen treatments! (Warts actually are human: they are made of skin cells stimulated into benign overgrowth by incorporation of genetic material from a virus. They also therefore have a unique genetic combination.) Kim HB, Lee SH, Um JH, Oh WK, Kim DW, Kang CD, Kim SH. (2015) Sensitization of multidrug-resistant human cancer cells to Hsp90 inhibitors by down-regulation of SIRT1. Oncotarget. 2015 Sep 25. [Epub ahead of print] Cancer cells are human. They are also genetically distinct from their host, with a unique molecular signature. All the arguments used by these people denying Nye’s statements can also be applied to cancer. Finch CE, Austad SN. (2015) Commentary: is Alzheimer’s disease uniquely human? Neurobiol Aging. 36(2):553-5. Scientists refer to diseases as “human”, too? Do we need to get informed consent and a signature from neurofibrillary plaques in the brain before we can try to treat it? My point is not that warts, cancer, or diseases need to be regarded as persons. It’s that “human” is a very broad term that is applied to a lot of kinds of cells, and it takes a particularly naive person to browse through the literature and go “A-ha! My biases are confirmed by this quote!”” http://scienceblogs.com/pharyngula/2015/10/01/bill-nye-and-abortion/ So in essence, you really don't have any evidence on this matter.
Some more quotes: "The idea that "life begins at conception" is not a scientific one. Since the disproof of 'spontaneous generation' (1668-1859), we have known that life only derives from life. Life arose billions of years ago and has continued since as a cycle. Assigning a beginning to a cycle (like the year) is arbitrary." -- Dr. Robert Wyman, (Professor of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1998‑present Program Director, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Undergraduate Science Education Program, 1989‑present Professor of Biology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1980‑1998) "Every human sperm and egg is, beyond the shadow of a doubt, alive. They are not human beings, of course. However, it could be argued that neither is a fertilized egg." -- Carl Sagan, (Astrophysicist, astrobiologist, Authored over 600 scientific papers and wrote several books about astronomy and natural sciences.) "If the embryo loss that accompanies natural procreation were the moral equivalent of infant death, then pregnancy would have to be regarded as a public health crisis of epidemic proportions: Alleviating natural embryo loss would be a more urgent moral cause than abortion, in vitro fertilization, and stem-cell research combined," -- Michael Sandel, (Harvard University government professor, also a member of the President's Council on Bioethics.") “What I’m concerned with is how you develop. I know that you all think about it perpetually that you come from one single cell of a fertilized egg. I don’t want to get involved in religion but that is not a human being. I’ve spoken to these eggs many times and they make it quite clear … they are not human beings.” -- Dr. Lewis Wolpert, (Developmental and evolutionary biologist, author of "Principles of Development" and “Triumph of the Embryo”)
You have a 6 shot revolver with 4 shots loaded. How do you justify pointing that gun at someone and playing Russian roulette with their life? Do you have a right to do that given the odds in question, and at what point do you acknowledge that you no longer have a right to gamble with someone else's life? Be careful that your response doesn't make the argument that if you push someone off a cliff and they die, it was gravity and the fall that killed them, not your initial act of pushing them.
Yeah this actually doesn't really mean anything. Just because human beings die naturally doesn't mean we should therefore go around and kill them.
I think you missed the main point of what I am trying to argue. Conception is the start of something, but it is more the start of the possible rather than the actual. It is not until a being emerges that has the traits necessary for individual existence that we can and should say life has begun. Embryonic existence is very precarious. Zygotes, blastocysts, and embryos have a high failure rate, which throws cold water on the anti-choice claim that every fertilized egg is sacred. Scientists estimate that 55 to 65% of all conceptions are spontaneously aborted in the first few days or weeks of a pregnancy, usually without the woman ever knowing she was pregnant. It's called "fetal wastage." Another 10 to 15% of pregnancies are miscarried in the months to come. Fetal wastage occurs because early embryonic forms have a high defect rate—most early miscarriages are caused by genetic defects in the fertilized egg. This shows that eggs and embryos do not yet qualify as human beings according to Nature herself. Further Reading: Wolfe, Roy E. 2011. Life at Conception. Fetal Wastage. Fertility and Sterility. Vol. 37, No. 5, pp 655-660, May; and Bonnicksen, Andrea. 2011 In Columbia University Press, New York, pp 150.. Copy and Pasting a response I gave somewhere else: Think about the moral implications of this. If the Constitution recognized each fertilized ovum as a person, a whole new species of equal protection problem would be born. Each time a state treated a fetus-an "unborn" child-differently from any other child, it would be discriminating against a helpless and manifestly innocent class of people. If a woman's home provided a physical or chemical environment that subjected her children to a 50 percent risk of premature death, the state would surely require those children to be brought up else-where. There are uterine environments that are unhealthy for embryos as well. For example, a female fetus developing in the womb of a woman with an arrhenoblastoma (a male hormone-secreting ovarian tumor) may develop abnormal masculine characteristics. If the same fetus developed in another woman's womb, it would develop into a "normal" female child, unburdened by the many difficulties that anyone with hermaphroditic characteristics will confront." Once the technology was available, it would probably be the state's obligation to require the transfer of a fetus-person to a less hazardous womb, for "foster gestation" by a surrogate mother, under a "best interests of the embryo" standard. All this just isn't really feasible.
There is a cliff. When someone is pushed off of it, there's a 33% chance that they will survive the fall. Do people have a right to push other people off of this cliff? Why?
People who are pro-life are so quick to say my abortion was wrong and that I should have kept the baby.I understand that we have different opinions but there is something I don't understand.Where were they when things got rough for me?When I was held down and someone forced that beautiful miracle inside me, did they help me up and stand by me, letting me know it was going to be okay? That they were here for me?When my parents kicked me out where were they to offer shelter to not only myself but this life they claim is an innocent one that needs protecting? Did they find me a place to stay and food to feed me and the precious life they claim to protect?When I suffered from morning sickness that had me hospitalized due to dehydration and malnutrition, why did I not see any of them bringing me flowers and seeing if there was anything they could do to help. Did they offer up a room in their home for me to recover and take care of me and the infant inside me?When the hormones mixed with my depression and I turned back to self harm, did they help me find a therapist? Where were they when I needed someone to tell me that death is not the only option? Where were they on days I couldn't even get out of bed?They were no where. They were judging me for getting pregnant at 17 and not having finished school or having a stable job. They were chanting outside abortion clinics and facilities that offer services relating to abortion and telling me that I was evil if I didn't keep my baby.But those awful clinics? They ones that just kill babies? They helped me find free therapy to talk about the rape and work through that as well as my depression. They found me a place to stay, food for the first week, helped me get on the benefit and found a job opening that suited me and would have me working within the month. They checked up on me almost daily to see how the nausea was and to make sure I was eating and drinking enough. They helped me gain the courage to reach out to my parents and start the healing.And yes, I still had the abortion. Because I realized that I had nothing to offer this child and I couldn't even guarantee it a safe home for the next nine months because I was not able to look after myself properly. I was not prepared to wait nine months and put a baby up for adoption because what if it had a physical or mental disability that made it hard to find a couple with the heart and resources to look after that baby. What if I couldn't look my baby in the eyes and give it away and now I had condemned it to a life of hardships. There were too many what ifs and I was not comfortable with that.So they made me take to some psychologists who made sure I understood the gravity of the decision I was making and helped me take the steps to rebuilding my life that I had decided would not have a baby in it right now. A clinic full of so called baby killers is the only reason I am still alive today and these people that claim to stand for life and protect the voiceless??The only thing they have ever said to me is that I am selfish and what I did was murder.
To me it's one of the worst parts of it all. I remember getting screamed at as I was walking into the clinic and all I could think of was, "they have no idea who I am or what my life is. They don't know me, they don't know my situation." Hell, I don't let my parents dictate my life anymore (I'm 26) why would I let random strangers tell me how to live my life? Good on you for making the right decision for YOU.
Thank you for sharing your story. It's a powerful reminder as to why this sub exists and why we continue fighting.
Good job, you made the right choice for yourself.
What do you mean? I understand how horrible the OPs situation was and I totally understand what she did and why, but I’m just saying that I hope the unborn fetus or child is at peace somewhere. Sorry for any confusion
I bet people who shoot up schools make these same excuses.

The fact that you commented "RIP Baby" after you read everything, shows you aren't really that sorry.



This is a good sign. It shows that conservatives are weaning off the culture war. Hopefully, we can continue that push.

And if so, what did you think?  I just finished it.
No, its on my Amazon list though. Any good?
I found it enjoyable, although I made it a point to not read anything about it before just cracking it open, so I don't know how that might've affected my expectations. [SPOILERS] It certainly felt a lot more real than some other patriarchal dystopian novels like The Handmaid's Tale, by being set basically present-day and most things being the same except for the criminalization of abortion.  I will say, though, that while I enjoyed the witch-gives-herbal-abortions plotline, the whole time, I kept wondering about medication abortion- like, do the pills, even in an underground, black-market sense, not exist in this author's universe?  Why are the only options the local witchy lady or a "term house"?
Thanks . Realised it’s already on my kindle , next on the list. I would recommend ‘ The book of American Martyrs ‘ https://mobile.nytimes.com/2017/02/16/books/review/book-of-american-martyrs-joyce-carol-oates.html
So here is the thing, someone in twitter said to me that suicides are more common after an induced abortion. I ask him where he heard that, and then he gave this link where I found the study.https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2352979/I read the full study (I'm pro choice), it was done between years 1987-1991 and it claims what this person on twitter said to me. Should I trust this study? Is it an objetive study? And if not, where can I find one more objetive?Sorry for my english, it is not my native language
This is completely false. A review was done which showed the study did not show association between induced abortion and suicide. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2126218/ Abortion is one of the safest procedures ever. https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2018/03/16/593447727/landmark-report-concludes-abortion-is-safe Abortion is also found to have little effect on a women's mental health. https://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/14/health/abortion-mental-health.html
Just to make it clear from Instaconfused27's first link, this is what the Finnish authors clarified about their own study:
Thanks for the links, I really didn't know how to response to this guy.
Its tragic, but post natal depression also contributes to suicide.

Thank you for this article! I believe it's high time that we start calling out these "Secular Pro-Life" groups for what they are. If you take a look at their Instagram page you can see that they are in full support of Mr. David Daleiden as seen here and here For those unaware. Mr. Daleiden is a criminal who is currently under investigation for spreading the fake PP videos that allegedly that PP "sold baby parts" videos that have been fact checked and have been found to be false and misleading. Videos that had a role in the PP shooting in Colorado. The group also seems to support many religious figures, such as Fr. Frank Pavone There are many things I could say about Fr. Pavone Pavone has made statements comparing supporting the legality of abortion to supporting terrorism. Pavone said "abortion is no less violent than terrorism". And the day before the election he presented a live video in which he appeared with what he claimed was the body of an unclothed aborted fetus and placed it on an altar. While using a dead baby as a political prop. Pavone preached for about 45 minutes on the subject of abortion. That should tell you enough about this organization. The sad part is that they don't realize that if they are successful, the religious majority of their movement will cast them aside. I mean just look at the comments on the Illinois Right to Life Facebook video where this was posted, one of example said: "Do I care what an atheist has to say...no."
Lying fraudster preying on the weak-minded

Finally! Vote Repeal, Ireland!


YAY!

Seriously infuriating. I don't doubt there will be some workplace harassment that comes from this cockbreath of a human being.
This guy is a major c-word.
Pretty sure he is one of the disgusting 'Thelemites' who use women as toys while babbling garbage about Aleister Crowley and the conjunction between Uranus and a circumcised cock. He is probably bisexual too, meaning, misogynist.

The law is terrible, as is the fact similar laws are in place in 27 other states. WTF America. The land of the free*. *freedoms are limited to those sanctioned by the state
I'm pretty sure this is against HIPPA unless the information is need to know then there is no reason. However, how are they checking to see if Doctors do this? I love my Obgyn's, but they've never made me feel pressure about anything or asked me too many questions except for my drinking and smoking habits.
Did you mean HIPAA? Learn more about HIPAA!
It's my understanding that HIPAA does not apply to the regulatory agencies, and since states regulate medicine, they have been able to seek and receive data like this. HIPAA protects individual people’s identities. It does not protect a composite of medical information gleaned from several anonymous patients. I do have questions about enforcement, though . . . it's unclear to me how the state would know about a doctor's omission or outright lie.
It seems like this is mostly just an attempt to gather data that could be useful in an attempt to overturn Roe V. Wade. It does violate HIPPA laws to reveal the identity of the patient. But they are just looking for statistics. Stunned & horrified don’t even begin to explain how upset I am about this law. Why are these people so obsessed? When are they going to let it go? Can’t this just be a private, personal decision for a woman to make all by herself? It’s exhausting.
Did you mean HIPAA? Learn more about HIPAA!


We all saw how important the Judiciary is when it comes to protecting Reproductive Rights, they are the only reason the pro-life movement has not completely outlawed abortion. Remember to vote and support your local pro-choice judges.

Pro-2a, pro-choice liberal here. I get called a child murderer by both extremes of the pendulum. Lets not fuel the fires here. Both abortion and the right to self defense are constitutional rights. Anti-gunners call me pro-gun just like anti-abortionists call me pro-abortion. The arguments are more complex than that.
Top Kek
Except that it turns a moral issue into a political one. And it turns a universal issue into a ethnocentric one.
Well, it is a political issue here. And yes, it’s being discussed in a US context. So... I’m fine with that.
Yes! Thank you!

I assume there's also /r/civilrightsdebate and /r/marriageequalitydebate for other neutral debates, too?
Well said. At least there's only 2 posts on the other subreddit.
Except for the occasional downvotes, I think we are pretty civil/neutral here.

The thing that will always get me about our constitution is that we allow women to travel for an abortion. From a pro-life perspective, that should be abhorrent. If say, in the UK, it were to become legal to murder children under the age of 5 I would absolutely support legislation to stop people travelling to the UK to murder their children. If the pro-life side truly saw foetuses as equal to children, I can't see why there's been no outcry.
Didn’t they have a referendum to allow women to travel ? I assume it would be impossible to police, would you have too wee on a stick before you boarded a plane !
They did. Obviously there wouldn't be strict policing by that but if someone has expressed that they are going to travel for an abortion, surely the pro-life thing to do would be to try and stop them from doing that. The reason there was a referendum in the first place is that the state attempted to do just that.

This is the best tl;dr I could make, original reduced by 93%. (I'm a bot) Extended Summary | FAQ | Feedback | Top keywords: Facebook#1 referendum#2 advert#3 people#4 initiative#5
There's a lot of opinions about abortion. Some people think it's alright anytime, some people only allow it because of health reasons, some would limit it to a certain week of pregnancy, some people allow it when the mother is poor, some say it's always wrong...Where do you think the opinions split into pro-life and pro-choice?(I identify myself as a pro-choice because I'd allow abortion in any case but some really late term abortions that aren't done for life- or health-saving purposes)
Pro-life = unreasonably restricted abortions like you’re not pro-choice if you think it’s only for health reasons
But all abortions reduce risk to health, so "health reasons" = abortion without restriction.
A good phrase, I think, is "medically indicated", which is a more technical term to help delineate between those abortions and those which are elective. A doctor wouldn't routinely suggest happily pregnant women to have abortions in order to preserve their health, but would do so upon certain conditions- that's the difference here, even though you're technically correct that not carrying to term will always be less risky than carrying to term.
They should. Where I live, all abortions are medically indicated because it's required by law, but in practice anyone can get one because abortion always provides a medical benefit.
I'd personally be pretty offended if I came in to a doctor's office for prenatal care for my wanted pregnancy, and was told, unprompted, that I should have an abortion. I'm very confused- where do you live and what do you mean when you say all abortions are medically indicated because it's required by law?
I live in the UK. Abortion is regulated by the 1967 Abortion Act: This condition applies to every pregnancy, which means anyone who wants an abortion can get one, but two doctors need to fill out paperwork verifying it for every abortion that takes place.
Interesting!  I'm coming from a U.S.-based perspective, so I had no idea. I do still maintain that it only serves to confuse the debate to act as though all abortions are for health reasons (even if some governments somewhat force you to pretend that they are).  Most debate centers around the usage that Ben20376 displayed- talking about pregnancies that are terminated out of necessity rather than routinely.
Yeah, I agree, and strongly support the current campaign to decriminalise abortion completely. But you can't deny that all abortions protect health, regardless of whether that's the primary reason on the patient's mind.
This really doesn't happen.
It depends on what you mean by "really late term."
The 40th trimester http://southpark.cc.com/clips/150310/unplanned-parenthood
In that case, yes.  It doesn't happen.
This is a good question. I've wondered the same thing. I've come to think of the terms as polar opposites, but the reality as a spectrum, if that makes sense. The terms have the connotation of "pro-life = no abortion ever, no exceptions" and "pro-choice = abortion for any reason at any stage of the pregnancy." At least, those are the two extremes I see protrayed in media and politics. But what is the reality? In my experience, the reality is that almost every person I know in real life does not actually fall into one or the other of those camps. They are somewhere on the spectrum between those two views; of course, some fall much closer to one end than the other, but some are really closer to the middle. However, these people will still call themselves pro-life or pro-choice. Where is the split, the tipping point? I suspect for each person the tipping point is a little different, but somewhere far enough away from their own beliefs that they can say with certainty they are pro-choice or -life. IS there a concensus tipping point on the spectrum? If there is, who decided it? Who SHOULD decide it? How well-defined is this dividing line? One user used the phrase "unreasonably restricting access." That definition is a good place to start, but if this issue has a sharp dividing line/tipping point, then definitions are needed. Sticking with the above example,  what does "unreasonable" mean, exactly? What is the line between reasonable and unreasonable? Is there a line? What is "access"? What does the act of "restricting" look like? Because, for example, 2 people may agree that unreasonably restricting access to abortion is wrong (or unlawful, or should be unlawful, etc.), but they may actually have different definitions of "unreasonable." Sorry for the ramble. I guess, all that to say that I, too, am interested in knowing if there is a concensus on the split on this issue! And that this question should get more attention because it's a good one. :)
I'd argue that it's a pair of axes: what abortions are you personally/morally okay with, and how willing are you to impose that personal moral position on other people? I'd say most pro choices are somewhere in one half of each and most pro lifers are mostly in the opposite, but the terms really are each talking about a different axis. For example, it's possible to be completely against abortion but believe that a pregnant person should have the right to choose. Though, I don't think many people at all are of the opinion that anyone should be forced to have one.
I think anyone with an unplanned pregnancy should be strongly encouraged to have an abortion. It should be the default treatment path recommended by all medical professionals. But I would draw the line at forcing, unless the patient did not have the capacity to make their own medical decisions, in which case abortion is safer than childbirth.
This is not very pro-choice.
I'm more pro-abortion than pro-choice.
Ah, okay.  I want to be explicitly clear that this subreddit is not for you.
I will continue to post and comment here :)
Oh wow, okay. Personally I'd much prefer if the options were neutrally presented. I also think there's a /big/ difference between unplanned and unwanted.
Bringing a new human being into the world is something that should never be done lightly. It should be the result of careful planning, preparation, and self-reflection, not the result of a contraception failure and an emotional, possibly hormonally driven reaction. Just because someone's gut reaction to testing positive for pregnancy is to want to continue the pregnancy, that doesn't mean it's a good idea, and ideally they should have counselling before making that decision. Also, continuing the pregnancy is medically the less safe option, so it shouldn't be presented as an equally good option.
I do appreciate your points, but that's part of being presented the facts if you want them. I don't think a person who decides to continue with a pregnancy should be forced to consider abortion just like how someone who wants an abortion shouldn't be forced to consider carrying full term.
I've never heard that term before, "pair of axes." I like it! You make an interesting point. I guess if you put it that way, I would then say a lot of laws that get voted on (depending on where you live, assuming you get to vote on legislation) are passed or not passed based on how willing people are to impose their moral/personal positions on their fellow citizens. Certainly a good thinking point for me. And I might even steal that phrase.
Thanks, I just mean it in two prependicular paradigms, where one and the other aren't necessarily interdependent, like for example sexuality and gender. It's the maths student in me. To consider the right to impose your will on others, I think society should only impose on how we treat each other, not ourselves. Well to me the phrases like "your rights to free speech end where another person's right to dignity begins" make a lot of sense, ie laws should apply to the interactions between people. You should have total control over your own body and being. If something is imposing on that it's morally okay to eliminate it.
Some states allow abortion up to 4-5 months and alot of states don't have limit. Some states offer health care plans that cover it others don't. I don't agree with abortion in the later term (barring the mother's health) i think it's immoral. If you want an abortion it really should not take 8 months into your pregnancy to figure that out. I feel like the argument for no limit on abortion and wanting tax payers to pay for it, making them go against thier consciouse is walking a dangerous line. I consider myself pro life because early on it isn't a human life yet scientifically speaking.
I think the terms are very silly to begin with. Either you are open to people choosing, you are for limiting choices, or you are for taking away choice and forcing people to do what you believe is right. Pro-life doesn’t exist. If pro-life existed, it would be someone who believed in everyone had a right to live no matter whose rights are violated. People that describe themselves as pro-life tend to be against universal healthcare, forced organ donation, forced blood transfusions, limiting guns, and against the  death penalty. Sure there are people that differ in their beliefs but a shocking number of people that describe themselves as pro-life aren’t very pro-life...
I think you can make a pretty sharp divide between the two. I’m pretty sure all pro-lifers would claim that the unborn should be equally protected under the law as all born humans, and pro-choicers would say that the unborn should have much less protection under the law than the born
This would result in abortion available on demand and without restriction. No one has the right to demand the use of another's organs to prolong their own life.
No one should (I’m aware that the right to elective abortion is the current state of the law) be allowed to end another’s life unless it is to protect their own.
Ending a fetus's life during the early stages of pregnancy always protects the life of the host.
Ya and outlawing motor vehicles would protect the lives of everyone in the western world, outlawing fast food does the same, making every building only one floor high prevents suicides, etc. If you want to talk about preventing the possibility of death, then we need a lot more laws around every aspect of our lives, but we need to take probabilities into account here. The main difference between the scenarios I gave and abortion is that abortion ends the life of another human being to eliminate the very remote possibility that the woman will die from her pregnancy.
The reason we don't ban cars, fast food, and high buildings is because society values freedom of choice over preserving life at any cost. That's also why abortion is legal. Permitting healthy people to choose not to donate their organs to those in need of transplants ends human lives to eliminate the very remote possibility that the healthy donor will die. Should living organ donation be mandatory?
Those against abortion are usually hypocrites, aren't they? Aren't they  the same people that is against raising minimum wage, Medicare for all, pro spanking, pro death penalty, make fun of and work against animal lovers and pro second amendment? They are the same folks that continue to reference, "pick yourself up with your own bootstraps". Which is funny because if you have time to protest and/or steam over what someone does to their own body. There is no way you'd have an "adult" job.  Definitely no way you would have much of anyone in your life as well. Those who have "adult" jobs and people they love and cherish in their life. Those people have far to much going on to care what others do. Especially, in regards to their own body. The whole "every life is sacred", bit. Doesn't ring all that true in hindsight.  I mean if evidence of the zygote  not feeling pain can be ignored by feelings. How is eating anything  justified? Not just animals but plants as well. Since the evidence of grass not feeling pain is the exact same. As for your pro abortion stance. That makes a lot of sense. If we were more choosey with who has kids. Our society would probably be way better for it. Such as not having anyone with disabilities. Along with having a smaller population that  would  make it easier for everyone to be equally educated. As well as being able to spot and prevent child abuse. Though Roe.vs Wade came about because of a previous law. That allowed a forced sterilization on an abused foster child and her sister.  Both without eithers knowledge. Under the excuse of them being deemed "disabled".  Which is proof that such measures would more than likely be abused if passed but in theory it sounds pretty good.
It always confuses me when people who want abortion outlawed say that they don't think people should be forced to have kids or that THEY themselves don't want any more. I assume they are aware that rape victims get pregnant and that contraception can and does fail sometimes. So if they don't want abortion to be available as a last resort form of birth control for these people, how do they propose that people not be forced to have children? Or how can they say of THEMSELVES that they will not be having anymore children since they cannot say for sure that they will never become pregnant again.
"Don't have sex unless you're prepared for the consequences you'll be forced to face." "Babies aren't a punishment, they're a gift." There's no realism. They're living in a fantasy world.
Don't have sex? Well ok, then what about rape? Like, do they not see the absurdity?
Many prolife people say they support abortion in cases of rape/incest. (Although where they expect these women to be able to get these abortions they deem "acceptable" when they rejoice over PP being defunded or locations closing due to TRAP laws, is beyond me). Also, I tend to feel this is something people say even though they don't really believe it. Anyway these kinds of abortions represent about 1% so it is not really the point, in my opinion. The point is that we are sexual beings, who need sexual release and intimacy with other human beings in order to feel fulfilled and happy in life. It is unrealistic to expect people to refrain from sex until they're ready to have children. Birth control will fail. And abortion will always be necessary.
I have not met very many anti choice people who would let rape victims abort. And I have never seen ANY professional anti choicer say they would. Their argument is that an embryo is a child so the woman is already a mother.
Yeah, which is why I feel it's something people say even though they don't mean it. I do feel like I see it a lot, but only because their "You consented to sex, you knew sex causes pregnancy, therefore you consented to pregnancy" argument fails for rape victims. Then they go into "well a baby is a blessing, a gift you should feel happy about" but then that fails their "face the consequences of your decision" argument. So none of it is logical.
Sex is not a necessity, though I understand it’s a strong desire most can’t seem to control. I’m 23 and voluntarily a virgin, partly because I’m pro-life and am not ready for children yet. I dont suppose everyone has such self-control, but at least I practice what I preach. I’d say I’m very satisfied in life because of family, friends, hobbies, career track, etc. I rarely feel any burden from abstaining from sex, so I would say no, it’s not necessary, neither is abortion, and it’s not a ridiculous expectation.
So what about a childfree married heterosexual couple who uses contraception (two forms even, like the pill and spermicide or an IUD — hormonal or non) and that fails? Even sterilization methods fail, both tubal ligation and vasectomies, not to mention if you don't have kids then getting any sterilization procedure as a woman (I've heard of men having some difficulty but not to the same extent) is incredibly difficult to find an OB/Gyn to do. I was lucky in a way that my Essure procedure had complications leaving me with a perforated fallopian tube and I had 3 coils instead of two, so I saw a different OB/Gyn and she thought removal was best and I had a bilateral salpingectomy (complete removal of the fallopian tubes). If I hadn't had coils placed making that the only option, I wouldn't have gotten that so easily. (A bilateral salpingectomy has an extremely low rate of failure vs. a tubal ligation, though failure rates with tubal ligations vary by method/technique.) Most women don't have the ability to just go and have a tubal let alone a bilateral salpingectomy. Was that couple supposed to not have sex despite being married? Just have a sexless marriage because the woman could get pregnant? As a childfree woman, I would have an abortion (again, I had one at 20 and I'm glad I did) if somehow I did end up pregnant. Part of being childfree is not wanting any biological children of yours born, so adoption isn't a valid answer. I have many reasons for not wanting children, one is that I'm extremely genetically predisposed to severe mental illnesses and deal with many myself. I also have an autoimmune disease that is heritable and horrible physical health. Both sides of my family aren't too great for physical health. I refuse to bring another human into the world that has to go through the shit I do for my health. (No, that's not a poor me, I'm so used to it and it's my normal to as point that I view healthy as foreign and as almost as if that's what's abnormal. Doesn't make it not awful.) So I disagree in your assertion that not having sex is not a "ridiculous expectation." At 23 and where you are in life, I can see why you may argue that (I disagree simply since not all of us want to not have sex until I'm assuming marriage and it's unrealistic to expect) but the argument to abstain from sex is rather myopic.
What you preach is forcing people to use their bodies save lives even if it involves invasive medical procedures and risk to their health. Practicing what you preach would mean donating every non-essential body part you can to save lives. You can start here: https://www.kidney.org/transplantation/livingdonors
I’ve actually looked into those kinds of donations. I don’t plan on dying with all of my non-essential organs. I have multiple reasons I won’t just yet, like the fact that I’m still on my mother’s insurance, so she has a say; if I give up a kidney or lobe of liver to a stranger I can never give them to a friend in need, so I’m weighing that possibility; I think there’s a rule, perhaps just for liver transplant, that you can only donate to someone you have a personal relationship with; and if I wait, maybe the rejection rate won’t be as high in the future. I am already on the Be The Match marrow registry and recommend everyone register. I do these things partly because I’m pro-life, but more so because I’m a Christian and believe that my preferences are secondary to others’ preferences, let alone others’ needs.
You don't see the irony of wanting to pick and choose which lives you save, while campaigning to deny others that right? This rule definitely doesn't apply for kidney transplants. In fact, by making one altruistic donation to a stranger, you could actually enable a chain of donations to occur, as many people agree to donate to a stranger if someone else donates to their loved one.
I actually don’t see any irony here because in my case I’m choosing between two lives and deciding which one to save. In abortion, over 99 times out of 100, the abortion is for convenience reasons, not to save the life of anyone. Like I said, I plan to one day donate a kidney, lobe of my liver, and hopefully bone marrow, but I’ll look more into it when I’m on my own insurance so only I will be negatively impacted by the donation.
Don't you people argue it's to save the life of the fetus? You're choosing to let people in need of kidneys die now on the offchance that a friend will need your kidney in future. I don't see how that's different to a woman deciding to abort on the basis that she might want kids later in life instead. Both of you are picking and choosing which people get to live and which don't. So you think there should be an exemption in abortion bans for women who don't have insurance to cover childbirth costs? If you believe people should be forced to give birth regardless of the costs they or their families incur, isn't it hypocritical to say you'll only save a life if it doesn't affect your family?
We never caused the people to need their organ transplants, but women (except in the extremely rare cases of conception by rape) choose to engage in an activity that can result in conception, making the unborn child the responsibility of the biological mother and father. I have no responsibility towards curing someone else’s illness. I personally will donate my organs one day to go above and beyond my responsibilities. No hypocrisy here.

Good news! The recipient's insurance would pay your medical bills! https://www.kidney.org/transplantation/livingdonors/financial-insurance-issues Looks like you're out of excuses.
My insurance rates would go up, which means that if I donated now my mom’s insurance rates would go up because having one less vital organ would make me more prone to other health issues. I don’t know why you keep harping on this off-topic issue. I already plan on donating these organs some day, I just don’t want that to burden my mother right now, yet you’re trying to call me a hypocrite for not willingly giving up my organs quickly enough?

RemindMe! 3 years
Someone already posted that the reciepent’s insurance would pay for her costs so that excuse is out the window
Someone already posted that the reciepent’s insurance would pay for her costs so that excuse is out the window
[removed]
I have so many questions... Why are you suddenly coming at me with such vitriol? What did I say that brought forth so much hatred in you? Do you feel a need to tear others down? What makes you think I’m pathetic? Is it because I have different values than you? Is it because you have some reason for thinking I am not a valuable person? If yes I can counter that argument pretty easily. What makes you think I have a horrible existence? I already mentioned the many things that bring me joy in this life, but I can elaborate if you’d like. Is it because you think life without sex is meaningless? If so, that sounds like an addiction to me. Have you no deeper joys in life? Why do you think I should have been aborted? I both enjoy life and spend my resources helping others and bringing joy to those around me. There are many people that are grateful for me. Do you think my life is pointless or a detriment to the world? If so, why? Do you wish I was dead? Do you think I should I kill myself? Do you want to kill me? You made it clear you don’t want me to exist, so what do you think should be done to make that happen? I’d like to remind you of rule 2 of this sub, “Trolling, harassing, bullying, and disrespect are not allowed.” I think mods like u/birdinthebush74 would agree that you violated that rule.
We don't tolerate trolling posts such as this, from either side.  Please be mindful of the subreddit rules. Any further rude posts will result in a ban
Good for you . Sex is not the be all and end all of life and relationships. Also the pressure now with the internet , social media etc must be horrendous. In a way I am glad the internet did really take until i had reached my late twenties.
rape doesn't happen /s
"If it's a legitimate rape the body has a way of shutting the whole thing down", sadly you may be onto something about how anti-choicers view rape.
Conception from rape is extremely rare. Less than .5% of abortions are due to rape, and most pro-lifers are okay with a rape exception to laws that would severely restrict abortions.
And how would you like to enforce that? If you make victims go through the courts before you let them abort, that's going to be some very late-term abortions, and many victims will kill themselves before they get to that stage. Also, you can expect the number of false rape claims to skyrocket if that's the only way to get an abortion. I've been with my SO ten years and I love him, but if it was a choice between being physically tortured through pregnancy and accusing him of rape, you can bet your life I'd at least try accusing him.
I agree that going through the courts would take too much time. I don’t pretend that I alone can come up with a perfect solution, but we could have an abort now, ask questions later type of mentality. After the abortion you will have to have evidence that suggests you were probably raped (beyond a reasonable doubt would not be necessary in these cases). If there’s no evidence then you get penalized, perhaps with a hefty fine or community service. I’m not a fan of locking up women for this offense. That’s pretty dark that you’d put an innocent man in prison to avoid going through pregnancy, especially a man you love. Just my personal opinion. PS. I’m trying to respond to all your comments, but due to being pro-life on a pro-choice subreddit, getting downvoted for everything I say, I can only respond once every 10 minutes
Do you seriously think that would have an impact on the abortion rate? I wouldn't hesitate for a second to get an abortion even if it meant I'd lose my life savings through the fine or have to do years of community service.
140,000 women worldwide become pregnant from rape every year. 16,000 abortions are performed on rape victims ever year in the united states. and no, the vast majority of anti choicers i have met do not think there should be an exception.
Okay, that means .066% of the world’s pregnancies are a result of rape, if I trust your number. I’d call that rare. Idk who wouldn’t call that rare. I’d like your source for your 16,000 number. I’m not worried about your anecdotal evidence for your conclusion that pro-lifers don’t believe there should be an exception
Think of it this way. Once you’re pregnant, you’re no longer caring and protecting yourself. You now have a baby growing inside of you who has just as much a right to live as anyone else on this planet. Having an abortion takes away its life. It ceases to exist and never has the chance to live it’s life all because it was an inconvenience to you and your life style. What I say on the topic of rape/incest/financially instability is that the baby did ask to be conceived in those situations. It deserves its own chance at life. Instead of taking away its right to live, give it up for adoption, give it a chance. It’s a human being, it’s life has just as much value as anyone else’s and you shouldn’t say it doesn’t just because it’s an inconvenience.
That is a very simplistic view of the issue. How do you define a human life? Where does life begin for you? Gametes? A fertilized egg? A cluster of cells? A foetus that does not have a brain or any brain activity? Why would any of that count as life? Why would a human being have to risk their life, and pregnancy is in fact a risk to a woman's life, to carry a foetus to viability. Why should a woman have to give up her bodily autonomy to keep a feotus "alive"? We don't expect any other human to be forced to give up bodily autonomy to keep anyone alive. You don't have to donate organs or give blood or bone marrow, though those actions could save dozens of lives. Adoption in this country is a mess. There are hundreds of thousands of kids waiting to be adopted, and the yearly adoption rates are roughly half the number of kids waiting for homes. The average time spent waiting for adoption is over 3 years. Imagine a child not having the stability of a forever family for 3 years. That is a long time in the very important developmental and bonding stages of life. Forcing more unwanted children into an already overloaded adoption system is not a caring thing to do, even if it is convenient for your argument. You should take some time to look deeper into the realities of what you are advocating.
There are no scientific definitions of life that I know of that require brain function, but perhaps you can enlighten me. From my experience it seems that whether or not the unborn are alive and human is no longer the center of the debate, but whether or not it is valuable enough to trump certain values of the mother. The US has the highest maternal mortality rate (MMR) of the western world at 14 per 100,000 or .014%. I wouldn’t call that much of a risk, though I’m all for attempts to reduce it. I just think there are much better solutions than elective abortions. Women should have to give up their bodily autonomy for the unborn until there are extra-uterine options because the woman engaged in a voluntary activity (except in the rare cases of conception by rape) that is known to cause conception by choice. You can’t make that argument for bone marrow, liver, or kidney donations. However, it seems that organ donation is more often encouraged today than women are to keep unwanted pregnancies. Just my observation I agree that adoption is a mess in this country, but that should motivate us to reform that system rather than let it be and see abortion as a solution. There are about 36 times as many couples willing and able to adopt than there are adoptable children in the US. Part of the reason people don’t go through with the adoption process is because the system is such a mess
It’s actually that simple. Pro-Choice people complicate to justify their reasons for supporting/getting abortions. Firstly, human life is anything that has potential. A fetus has potential from the moment of conception. There are no ifs and buts as to when the fetuses life is a viable one. But i’ll include a chart down below and you can tell me when at what stage it is okay to decide your rights matter more than this baby’s. As cliche as it is, there are contraceptives to prevent pregnancy, if everyone would stop being reckless and stupid there would be less unplanned pregnancy’s. It’s as simple as that. So you would rather kill the baby instead of giving it its best chance at life? Since apparently our adoption system is so screwed up, we should just murder the baby because that’s obviously the best solution. If that baby was out of the womb and you put a knife into its chest you would be charged with first degree murder but if you killed it inside the womb apparently it is a human right. It’s despicable and selfish that anyone would think that their life has more value than their child’s or anyone else’s. Have you ever seen what an aborted baby looks like? Or read into the procedure? Have you heard testimony’s from doctors who used to preform abortions? https://i.imgur.com/d6mvJEY.jpg Im sorry, but I think I’ve looked deep enough into this subject to know what I’m talking about.
So you are not going to answer my question. Alright. As for adoption, I would not go that route for the same reason I would never donate my eggs to an infertile couple. As a childfree person, I REFUSE to further my genetics into the world. I would rather die than be a biological mother. Adoptees themselves sometimes have abortions. Also, adoption existed before Roe vs wade, and currently exists in countries where abortion is illegal. But guess what,  WOMEN STILL HAD AND STILL DO HAVE ABORTIONS IN THOSE COUNTRIES. If adoption was a panacea, these women would not be having abortions. Abortion itself would never have been invented because there would not have been a need for it. Adoption and abortion have existed alongside each other throughout history, never replacing the need for each other. every women and every pregnancy is unique, so there is no one size fits all solution and there never will be. And you don't get to tell me how to think, and you certainly don't get to legislate your dogmatic belief that I am a mother when I have an egg fertilized. Every woman has the right to view her pregnancy as she sees fit. I know women who have had miscarriages that consider themselves mothers and I know women who don't I know women who have had stillbirths who consider themselves mothers to those children and I know women who don't. Some women consider themselves mothers once they become pregnant. Some don't. There is no universal truth regarding this. It is individual. The women in my childfree community who have had abortions are NOT mothers. You don't get to tell them that they are.
Wait a second. If i can’t tell you what to believe, why are you telling my what to believe? Just because i state my opinion doesn’t mean i’m telling you that you have to believe me. I’ll answer your question. No, no one should be force to have children if they don’t want them/or aren’t ready yet and there are PLENTY of humane options instead of abortions. If you aren’t ready for a child, use contraceptives. Nothing is 100%, not even abortions. But be a compassionate human and do not take away that baby’s right to life. If you don’t want to have a baby? There are three solutions. One, get your tubes tied. It’s 99.9% effective and 1/10000 women who have this procedure done experience pregnancy. Two, get a elective hysterectomy. Three, go through with elective sterilization. There are multiple alternatives to abortion. It’s your right to choose wether or not you want to be a mom and i respect that, I was never challenging that. I only have a problem abortion. By definition, people who are pregnant or were are mothers. It doesn’t tatter if you aren’t the nurturing type and want nothing to do with the baby it doesn’t change the fact that you were/are a mother. Your feelings can’t change reality. Im not telling you that you’re mothers, facts are.
I'm NOT telling you what to believe. I am stating the fact that you are trying to put YOUR beliefs into law. And they don't perform elective hysterectomies for birth control. And as you say, no contraceptive is fool proof. So abortion will need to be available. And some people aren't able to prevent pregnancy despite all of this. And no, you don't respect our right to not be moms. And the fact is YOU don't get to dictate to people how they view or SHOULD view their pregnancies. YOU would say you are a mother once pregnant. But that isn't a dictate you get to force on others.
I’m not trying to make my opinion law. In my opinion, abortion is wrong, not matter the circumstance. If you don’t want to carry on your genetics you shouldn’t take a baby’s life away from it just because of your mistake. In that case, a hysterectomy is perfectly reasonable. You don’t ever have to worry about becoming pregnant and you aren’t kill an innocent baby in the process. I’m not telling you that you’re mothers, the definition of a mother is someone who cares for and nurtures a child/baby. If you were/are pregnant, the. you were a mother. You provided, grew, and nurtured a baby in your womb. It’s not my opinion it is fact. Of course I don’t get to force what facts people do and don’t believe, but that doesn’t mean we’re wrong sometimes in what we believe. But I have the freedom to speak freely about my opinion with others without “forcing” or “dictating” how people think.
"i'm not telling you that you're mothers. but if you were pregnant, you were a mother." You just contradicted yourself. You don't want to make your opinion law? Then don't call yourself pro-life, because that is the position that abortion should be illegal. because of a mistake? what mistake? having sex? getting raped? what mistake? and no, you don't get to tell me that you respect my right to remain childfree if you don't support abortion rights. Own what your movement does. If abortion is not available, people WILL be forced to have children.
You can’t take parts of my comment and i leave others to support your argument. I have said that it’s not just my opinion, but it is FACT by definition that anyone who was pregnant, was/is a mother. A mother by definition is someone who nurtures and grows children. That’s the part you forgot to mention. Let me get this straight, you think by having an opinion opposite to yours and expressing that is trying to make what i believe law? Doesn’t that sound absurd to you? I could say the same about you then, that you’re trying to make abortion law by debating people with your feeling other than facts, and the facts are that what’s inside of you is a human, who has just as much as of a right to live as you. By getting an abortion, you are murdering that baby because your rights are worth more than theirs. Science proves that what you conceived isn’t just a mass of cells and potential life but it is. You need to responsibility for you mistakes. A popular thing I hear among pro choice people is that they are taking responsibility by being brave enough to get heir abortion. No, they aren’t being ‘responsible’, they are being cowards and being selfish because they were reckless and clumsy. I can most definitely tell you I respect he fact that you don’t want to have children, it’s not a crime to not want them. I can respect your choice but not abortion and not matter how you feel, my not supporting abortion does not mean i don’t respect you. Nobody is forced to have children, I have stayed multiple ways to postpone children short term and indefinitely, so do not say that by taking away abortion, we are taking away your right to not have children because that’s a flat out lie. Obviously, you’ll probably never agree with me and most likely think I’m some bigoted, narrow minded, naive girl. But I’m not. I have done extensive research into abortion because advocating for baby’s ,who don’t have voices for themselves, is my passion, they should have equal chances to live just like us.
No one is forced to have children? Uh, you have already acknowledged that rape conception happens and that contraceptives, including sterilization, can and do fail. These are NOT mistakes on the part of the people getting pregnant. It is just flat out bad luck. Just like cars sometimes malfunction, birth control does to.
I wasn't taking parts of your comments. I was replying to your entire argument. Don't tell me that no one is forced to have children. I can give you empirical data from third world countries and the contact info from people I have communicated with to prove you otherwise. Speaking of third world countries, it is not a coincidence that 93% of countries where abortion is strictly illegal are third world countries. It is because abortion bans are part of the same primitive mentality that countries that still stone people have. People with the anti abortion rights mindset are living in a past time. We have progressed in our world to the point now where EVERY child that is born can be born willingly to a willing parent. But that world was made possible in part because of modern abortion techniques. In regards to your comparing abortion to slavery, I don't think the abolition of slavery would have been possible without the industrial revolution. It isn't a coincidence that the anti slavery movement started ONLY when our society began to change from an agrarian to an industrial one, simply because slaves were no longer necessary for field work. That is a good thing and I am very glad the industrial revolution happened. But the fact is that our society has NOT YET progressed to a point technologically and socially where abortion is not needed. We still have rape. We still have fetal anomalies, Pregnancy still kills. Contraceptives can and do fail. These and other reasons mean banning abortion would be disastrous. We know this because there are countries RIGHT NOW where abortion is illegal. But we ARE progressing. Infanticide has been extremally common throughout history, but only began to decrease once modern abortion and contraceptives became illegal. Interestingly enough, infanticide is still common in a lot of countries where abortion is currently illegal. In Senegal, one fifth of women currently in prison are in prison for infanticide. There might come a day when our society moves past the need for abortion and any other surgery, but that is probably far in the future. As for personhood, science can't answer that because that is not science's job, it is a job for philosophy. Science doesn't deal with that area. It can influence it, but ultimately it cannot answer it. And NO WOMAN that has ever been pregnant doesn't understand that if not terminated, a baby will pop out in 9 months. That is the very reason they do it, so that doesn't happen. The great MAJORITY of women who have abortions have already given birth at least once. They know what it takes to be a parent. Your worldview makes children into punishments. I also expect someone with your worldview to not talk about "how many kids they are going to have" since you never know if you are going to experience an unplanned pregnancy. I also would have more respect for your community and you personally if you would just acknowledge the effects of your movement. I have actually had anti choicers admit to me that banning abortion forces people to have children. I respect that more than people who tried to hide from it. As for your insistence that the people in my childfree group are parents, I wonder if you think I should alert the administrators in my childfree group that they have been pregnant and should not be allowed to stay since they are parents in your worldview. I don't tell people how to view their pregnancies. I have friends that have miscarried who call themselves parents and people who don't. Neither one are wrong.
Honestly, third world countries are not third world countries because of illegal abortion. It’s the crime and policies in place because of the government that make it that way. You can’t blame illegal abortion for their problems. No abortion is primitive? Because people think it’s a horrible crime to kill a baby that no one wants because it’s an inconvenience to your lifestyle. It’s despicable that you think it’s primitive and we need to move past not using it. You say we should live in a world where everyone child born is born willingly and to a willing parent. Why aren’t you thinking about the baby’s life? It’s right to a chance at life? You never answered my question from earlier. If the baby was outside the womb and killed it, it would be first degree murder. But if it’s inside the womb it’s a human right, why does going through the vaginal canal change that? Why is it different? I don’t believe i ever mentioned slavery but I’m also glad that it was abolished. Abortion isn’t illegal, it is only illegal after 22 weeks. We only progressed because slavery was DEMOLISHED. My point is all things that are legal does not mean that they are right. Abortion is wrong just like slavery. As for infanticide, your argument for abortion in terms of infanticide is contradictory. You’re saying we should make abortion legal so it will cut down on infanticide. Yet you won’t be getting rid of killing babies because that it what abortion does! Except somehow it’s different to kill a baby inside the womb. Why is it different?  Science most definitely does prove it. You aren’t taught in philosophy that when pregnant, you can abort the child based on the fact if it is relevant or not you. For as long as science has been around it has taught that! Doctors and nurses are branches of science and they take care of the body and unborn babies, they determine whether it is healthy or not, care for it, and the mother. Philosophy does NOT determine wether the life is relevant, you’re only using that to support your argument. Nobody is forced to have children. I see contraceptives work all the time and as time goes on, they will develop more and that would be great. I do agree with you on that. My worldview does not make babies into punishments, yours do. They’re trying to avoid the responsibility because of their reckless actions and they see babies as a punishment if it was not planned at the exact moment they wanted it. No baby is ever a punishment, they’re a gift and privilege. I do talk about how many children i want with my boyfriend, because if we’re not reckless and stupid, we won’t have to deal with an unplanned pregnancy. Even if contraceptives did fail and I ended up pregnant, I would still love the child and wouldn’t see it as a punishment. If you alerted your administrators, that wouldn’t affect me in the slightest, it would affect you. Of course when it comes down to it, people view their pregnancies however they want, despite the definition.
you stated in this post that contraceptives don't fail and then said what you would do in the event that the contraceptives you use fail. and how the heck do you know what philosophy classes teach? i was in one in college. We discussed this sort of stuff, meaning of life. etc. and it is different for a lot of reasons. but frankly i can see that this discussion is going nowhere. I have explained myself and frankly i am getting tired. so i am just going to end this here.
I’d just like to point out that just because something has always been around, doesn’t mean it should be. Slavery had always been around and deemed “necessary”... until it wasn’t. Women were seen as less than men until they weren’t, and gays were always socially condemned until that started to change recently. I’m not saying that was your main point, but it was one point


It's been said repeatedly, they're anti-sex first and pro-life second, which is why they are also anti contraception and anti sex education (that isn't abstinence only).
It drives me nuts. The thick headed guy who blocked me on Facebook (I called him unethical and lacking integrity for initially claiming he knew he ani-Obama post was false but then called him lazy for not taking five minutes to figure out that Obamas did not have suspended law licenses) couldn’t understand that birth control that women could easily control like implant could help lower abortion rate.
He blocked you because your debating style sucks. Don't call people names, that is childish and will not help your cause, even if you are in the right. Now with people who have beliefs based on ideology, your goal of debating them online is not to change their mind (you won't) but to convince those on the fence that your argument is better. You do that respectfully. Sometimes, you just gotta cuss people out, but that's for yourself and not for your argument.
This is something I have been preaching for awhile. Personally I hate abortions. I am still pro-choice because #1 social advocacy is more effective but #2 I shouldn't get to set the standard of morality for the rest of the fucking country.
Why do you hate abortions?
Unapologetically Pro-choice here and I dislike abortions too. I think it's horrible when a Woman has to refuse the opportunity of motherhood because of societal circumstances, but I also respect the fact that people should have a choice to take that responsibility to be a parent. Many women seek abortions because they don't have resources or enough finances and in the richest country in the world that's an embarrassment, if you want to be a mother, you should have every ounce of support in that process.
It always baffles me that the US doesn’t have mandated maternity leave .

I'm worried about my nation...Very worried. But we in Poland will stand against the ban and if they'll be too forward and introduce it, we'll only grow and rally! I feel like there's gonna be a revolution in that topic, sooner or later...

I can't wait till we get Trump out of office and the pro-life movement can back to the ash heap of history where they belong.
Trump being out of office won't change this.
I disagree. Trump was mostly elected on a pro-life platform. Plenty of religious and pro-life Catholics and Christians voted for him because of his pro-life views. As you can see Trump is doing pretty poorly, once we weather his presidency no one is going to pro-lifers or religious voters seriously anymore because they sold their souls for a thrice-married adulterer who used to be pro-choice.
I was pro-life before Trump got elected and I'll still be once he's out of office. The current president doesn't change my mind.
Nor mine.
If you've seen [the post I've written recently] (https://www.reddit.com/r/prochoice/comments/7u3zkf/the_black_protests_in_poland/) , then you know what's going on in Poland. Radical abortion bans, protests, petitions... One of them passed. The bad one. The radical abortion limit. And now it's almost there, close to be implemented...So the feminists and the pro-choice in general are protesting like they did in 2016, '17, and in January this year.They are rallying in the city streets against the repressive ban, today, right now, as I'm writing!I'm watching the Warsaw livestream on Facebook and wearing black clothes as a sign of solidarity with them right now.Couldn't come to the protest but still trying to show my support...
That's terrible. I hope the Polish government will come to their senses. At least travel within the EU is easy, so that's an option but a woman shouldn't need to go to another country if she doesn't want to give birth.
Thanks for your hope, even though I'm afraid the bill's gonna be implemented. The pro-choice bill that would make us a way better nation was rejected in the first reading ×_×...but the 2016 protests made a cruel bill that would make miscarriages possibly getting the mother JAILED rejected, so there IS a bit of hope!  There was 50 thousand protesters in Warsaw by the way (if only the citizens of Warsaw would protest,that would be 1/40 of the people, kinda impressive!), I'm quite upset about not participating in the Warsaw protests but so proud of the people that came.

Donald Trump in 1990: I am very Pro-Choice. https://www.nbcnews.com/meet-the-press/video/trump-in-1999-i-am-very-pro-choice-480297539914 Donald Trump Jr. said he was "totally for" gay marriage because "it just meant more women for me." In that same interview, he also expressed rather liberal beliefs on abortion—"I wish the Republicans would drop it as part of their platform" https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/08/us/politics/trump-russia-kushner-manafort.html Ivanka Trump was also pro-choice. During her days as an elegant Manhattan billionaire’s daughter-about-town, she and her husband, Jared Kushner, donated money to a group known to back abortion rights, Democrats in New York, and socialized with progressives. http://www.newsweek.com/does-ivanka-trump-back-oppose-abortion-rights-565454 For all the Christians and Catholics here. Donald Trump says he doesn't need forgiveness from God. Quote: "I Think if I do something wrong, I think, I just try and make it right. I don't bring God into that picture. I don't." For the Catholics supporting Trump, think about that when you are at the valid sacrament of confession. http://www.businessinsider.com/trump-on-god-i-dont-like-to-have-to-ask-for-forgiveness-2016-1 Donald Trump cheated on his wife multiple times, and allegedly had an affair with a porn star. http://www.newsweek.com/donald-trump-cheat-melania-780249 Are people allowed to change? Sure they are. But I find it HIGHLY doubtful, that a former pro-choice liberal suddenly starts genuinely caring about God and the Sanctity of life the moment he needs to run a campaign and get votes.
Have you been looking at the expose of Cambridge Analytica and Trumps campaign?

This is disgusting. I hate the world..
I totally agree. I got into a firestorm with his Twitter. I asked how many impoverished babies he sponsored. How many orphanages he gives money to. How will you know these babies are taken care of? How do you know they’ll get care without universal healthcare? What about the poor mother getting care? I asked how he was going to battle our mortality rate for child birth which is the highest in any 1st world country while he’s marching these women to an early death? How can anyone care for these kids without raising the minimum wage? How can you even fathom caring for these poor mothers and children without revamping our whole society.
It all just boils down to the fact that they just want it born. After it’s born, who cares about them right? Screw the mom who now needs government help even though she didn’t want to have the kid in the first place. Screw the kid who was born with cerebral palsy and now has to rely on the insurance provided by the government (which is S H I T) because he asked to be born right? It’s just greed. They want another tax payer is all.
I agree with you. I was horrified when those came in the mail from KENTUCKY no less. Like dear god, all of the girls/women who have died from back alley abortions. Is abortion great? No absolutely not, but it’s so necessary to keep quality of life for everyone involved. It scares me to think of a world where my government says I HAVE to have this child. I’m really still aghast these came to my home
Just curious why is the fact that is came from Kentucky relevant?
Because I live in Georgia. I have no idea why a Kentucky senator is sending me these in Atlanta.
Probirth not prochild
What do you mean you hate the world? People made it so that you can literally do anything you want. You should not hate the world because you have complete, stupid liberty. Conservatives hate this world because stubborn, blind democrats, liberals, and feminists are making the world into a sinful place where evil is completely tolerated and encouraged. You! You made this world the way it is. Don't hate the world, fix it right. Feminism and liberalism are making this world the way it is: a place of evil and tolerance
What are your issues with feminism ?
Ok I have a lot. This is a complete generalization of my view of feminism. I am 100% honest. I may not be 100% right, but I'm not posting this as a troll. I am a feminist. I am not a 21st century egotistical 'feminist'. 21st century feminists are not really feminists. People have twisted that cause and made it into something very dark. Jesus Christ was a feminist. My Catholic God is feminist. This is what people don't know. There are many places in the Bible which wrote about Jesus conversing with women. The first witnesses of Jesus' ressurection were women from Jerusalem. Did yo know in the time of Jesus, what women said meant less than nothing? So why would the first witnesses of Jesus' Ressurection be women? You don't have to believe that Jesus ressurected, but know that women are important in the Bible. What does this have to do with feminism? Easy to tell because it shows women are important to God. Why do feminist try to prove that women are the superior gender? This is the main thing that bothers me. -Men are the superior gender by default. That takes nothing away from women. Women have every right that a man has. Any studies that show women get paid less is completely wrong. That can be swayed by any number of variables THAT INCLUDE a mans ability to work more effective. This isn't always the case, but genetically a man can push himself harder than a woman can. Men are stronger, thus can work harder. Women, however, are more stubborn (in an amazing way) and that allows women o be more persistent in their duties allowing them to get the job done, and done right. I respect feminists and I would never disgrace them (others can do that for me). If my friend was a feminist it would not change my friendship. I respect them because they are fighting for a cause and you gotta love that. I HAVE NOTHING AGAINST FEMINISTS! I never attack a feminist as a human. I will surely attack their beliefs and what they stabd for, but I will never disgrace a feminist, because we are all humans and every human is created equal I can give a lot more reasons. I did not go into feminists disgracing themselves, feminists making the world a worse place, and a number of other things.
Thanks for the response. I appreciate points 4 and 5.  Point 2 is irrelevant to me as I am an atheist. Your last paragraph, is the most intriguing , how does feminism make the world a worse place? Surely striving for equal pay, maternity leave etc improves the world
Yeah. Point 2 is just showing that the Catholic Church is not the enemy of anyone. When you said "surely striving for equal pay...improves the world" that's exactly what I mean. That is the feminism I am for. Women should, and they do, have equal rights as men. But how does 21st century feminism affect the world? Read this link. It gives 7 definitions of feminism which are all true and all expose what egotistical women are doing to men, political structure, and the world https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=feminism I know it's urban dictionary and I'm sorry for the weak link, but it's very true. This link is awesome because it's written by a woman who is all for woman's rights, but she writes about how 21st century feminism has become so much more and so much worse. Reading this article honestly will make you anti 21st century feminist in a heartbeat. At the same time, it will make you more pro woman's rights than ever before. My favorite line in it is "why would it be called feminism if it was for equality?" Really cool question to think about Edited for clearer reading
You said you were an atheist. Want me to give arguements of Catholicism in personal messages? If so let me know, or just start a chat. That it's for everyone, too. Any one that wants to debate religion or is interested in Catholicism shoot me a PM
Thanks for the offer but religious beliefs are out of my purview. All I can say ( as I say to anyone)  is I hope it makes you happy
More ways feminism is ruining the world Feminist want to wait longer to be married because they want to stay independent of men. They then have less children or don't raise any at all. Bad Many more children are in child care because most feminists don't raise and nurture children  -proven fact They make men less of men. Feminists force men to be less masculine and makes men less likely to speak up because if they do, feminists can easily label them a hater, and even charge them with harassment. True college story College women get drunk, have sex, get pregnant, wake up the next morning and regret it all, then they accuse the man of rape. In court, they play the 'woman card' and a man goes to jail for rape, loses the respect of his friends, peers, professors, sports coaches, and worst of all can't get a job easily as a charged rapist.
Thanks for the response . How do you view childfree women who don’t have any desire to have children?
In the end it's their choice. As a married woman, it is your duty to have children and raise them. You don't have to have 7 children like my mom, but I believe it is your duty to have children. There is an entire other question of pre-marital sex that I won't get into, but if you are a married woman, you should have children. It isn't easy, but when do you truly love something that came easy?
Its my duty to have children! I have no interest in child rearing and have known since I was eight that I never wanted to be a parent.  I am also married, do you honestly want me to have a child that I would resent?
I don't know then. The pout of marriage for Catholics is 2 -Raise Catholic children -Become united with your spouse do that you two can bring eachother to Heaven Have you had an abortion?

you are a piece of shit, "lady" ╭∩╮( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)╭∩╮
No. I'm not a woman. I said "As a married woman, it is your duty..." just saying

What? Self awareness? In our society? Compassion even? Blasphemy!

Because then they "don't have to abide anything" they don't get caught doin' red-handed, and that keeps the weak-minded lined up and voting against their own interests, keeping these self-interests-only ass-hats in power.
Compassion for someone who decides to kill a child? Yeah no compassion for that.
There are so many flaws in that statement that its unbelievable and I'm not even going to try to respond at any length to someone who is literally saying they refuse compassion.
For someone who decides to kill a child? Yes. Under lift threatening situations I agree. Other than that. No.
Like I said, “refuses compassion”
No I’ll give compassion where it’s due. It’s good to know that you don’t mind killing children. Nice “compassion”
Lol compassionless and trying to bait someone. Nice. I could actually entertain a civilized adult conversation that spans both sides of the argument, but obviously you are close-minded, not open to anything that isn’t over the top fluffed up rhetoric that’s been seared into your brain. You are narrow minded and refuse to listen or take in anything that doesn’t fit the way you like things. I’m not responding anymore. Like I said, compassionless. Like I should have said, ignorant. Like I meant, you are not a good person. Bye!
Where you are wrong was insinuating that I had no compassion. I do under certain circumstances. Wanted to entertain a civilized conversation but you said I had no compassion. I am not closed minded and nothing has been scared into me. I just look at it as right and wrong. What’s so scary about that? I am willing to hear sides and compromise for certain circumstances. It seems that you are against compromise and not me. Little hypocritical? I believe so. I would be more than happy to have a civilized conversation about this. But you won’t because I am compassionless. When I assumed you were compassionless, for what I believe is wrong, you didn’t like that. So tell where I am closed minded? I fail to see where I am. Since I would compromise.
The only thing that can overturn Roe v. Wade is if Anthony Kennedy or a liberal Justice leaves the Supreme Court before there's a Democratic Senate or President.
Let's hope that happens then. Woo!
Go to heck.
go finger yourself, fat ugly cunt.
Why would a self-proclaimed libertarian try to limit a woman’s freedom?
'Cause they don't count. /s

Ouch. I think we can recover though. Most of our Justices are pro-choice. I am worried about Gorsuch though.
Here's how the conversation went down:"Why do you want the black market to provide abortion care in this country?﻿"Her: "It will be extremely painful... for you. Their punishment must be more severe.﻿"Me:"Yea, so then why does Mexico which has abortion banned average 34 abortions per 1,000 pregnancies, while the US which has legalized abortion, only has 13 abortions per 1,000 pregnancies?You care deeply about the lives of children. You're a very empathetic person in that sense. That's good. *Would you be willing to pass gun bans if it were to save the lives of children as well?*﻿"Her: "Banning guns would actually make kids less safe, because then only criminals would have them. Banning abortions, even partially, would save lives. Bans are for violence, guns are not violence, they are tools. Killing an unborn human without the ability to speak for itself is an unspeakable act of violence. Your argument is total garbage.﻿"Me: "Yea, well Europe, Japan, Australia and Canada don't seem to have the same problem with school shootings that our country does. So clearly they're doing something right, and we're doing something wrong." Bans are for violence, guns are not violence, they are tools." Lol what? Yea, they're tools for killing. That's why every infantry soldier is equipped with one when they enter a war zone.Banning abortion would make women less safe. We already have the highest maternal death rate in the developed world. The ultimate goal of the Pro-Life community is to make that even worse, since they'll be turning over women's abortion care to the black market, instead of it being performed by licensed medical doctors.If you can claim gun bans don't work, then it's not hard to see that neither would abortion bans.﻿"
There is evidence that gun control is effective. There is little evidence that abortion restrictions are effective though
Were you surprised? My brother-in-law slapped my nephew across the face for not reciting an invocation to my brother-in-law's deity the way he wanted. Both parents also believe that you're evil and don't care about kids if you support reproductive choice. Just another day in the life of a pro-lifer.
She sounds like an idiot who is set in her ways
It's not about whats effective it's about rights. I have a right to own a gun if I mentally stable and don't have have a criminal history. You have a right to an abortion and make decisions about your body so long as the pregnancy hasn't developed too far. The point is that government doesn't get to decide what is morally right or wrong and violate people's rights by enforcing that decision. At the end of the day you can dislike guns, but you don't get to take them away. But if I dislike abortion, I don't get to take that way either. Freedom for all <3
The status quo is killing children. 9 year old kills his 14 year old sister. Any number of deaths in the violent areas of Chicago. 17 people killed at Marjory stoneman Douglas. We're having massive protests on this very day specifically due to our country's gun laws. The ProLife people claim that they deeply care about children's lives, and if that's the case they should on board with gun legislation meant to keep guns out of the hands of people who kill children.
How does gun regulation stop gun deaths. In all fairness, what's are regulations you support.
Magazine limits would be #1. The Tucson shooting was going to be a lot deadlier but he was tackled while changing out his magazine. He killed 6, almost 7 but the congresswoman survived a head shot, and when he had emptied the magazine, he was attempting to load another 30 round magazine. I do not believe it is a coincidence that mass shooters are consistently picking 30, 50, and 100 round magazines, despite what the NRA claims. If he had been tackled after only firing 10 shots from a 10 round magazine, well presumably more  people would have survived. Clearly other countries are doing something that we're not that allows for less gun violence. In the UK the terrorists use knives and cars, but still no where near as deadly as your average high profile mass shooting g here.
Banning guns won't make them go away, just like banning abortion makes it go underground.
Take South Korea for example. Both guns and abortions are illegal. The abortion rate is still pretty high. What about gun ownership? Non existent. Gun violence? No such things. Streets are so safe that children walk outside by themselves late at night. Only hunters are allowed to own guns and outside of the hunting season they must keep their guns at the police station. Also, Korean people effectively overthrow their governments even with no guns.
Bingo. Guns are rare to begin with in SK Outlawing guns in the US will not make them go away just underground.
Take Australia for another example - they did have guns and then they were banned. They don't have gun violence like in the US now. You know, it's better to look at the real world before forming an opinion on what will work and what won't. Conjectures are fine but when you have real world evidence, you need to rely on it.
Very well (even though you literally just relied on conjecture yourself to make a very weak point about gun crime in SK) here are some facts. Many of the countries with the strictest gun control have the highest rates of violent crime. Australia and England, which have virtually banned gun ownership, have the highest rates of robbery, sexual assault, and assault with force of the top 17 industrialized countries.  Countries with the stricktest gun control also tend to have the highest rates of gun related crime (same page). I suggest you read through this page before replying about "real world facts" and conjecture. Also, American gun culture is not the same as Australia and unlike Australia gun ownership is a literal constitutional right. America will not simply turn over its guns the way Australia did. Gun ownership is a constitutional right. https://mobile.nytimes.com/2018/02/23/opinion/australias-gun-laws-america.html?referer=http://www.google.com/
Robbery, sexual assault and assault with force have very little to do with guns. They're separate issues that a country needs to deal with. What about mass shootings? They're impossible without guns. A mass stabbing can never be as deadly. Also, relevant statistics are deaths from guns, not gun related crime. Banning guns prevents lives lost, not all crime. Also, it's only fair to compare countries of similar levels of development. Mexico and the US are way too different economically for any meaningful comparison. Just because owning guns is a constitutional right in the US doesn't mean that it should remain that way. Guns only serve to hurt people, it makes sense to make them impossible to get for anyone besides the police and the military. Just because some people enjoy owning guns as a hobby doesn't mean they should be allowed to have real guns when that makes society less safe. In the same way if someone enjoys making their own explosives in their basement and claims to be "responsible" about it they should still not be allowed to do that. American gun culture is toxic.
Outlawing guns will not stop gun violence in America and will simply endanger more people by taking guns out of the hands of law-abiding citizens trying to protect themselves. The current push to de-arm citizens is toxic. Edit: These violent crimes could be prevented or deterred by allowing women and others people at risk to carry firearms. The rates have only gone up I these countries since the ban of guns.
Oh really? Carrying a gun will help me when I'm being attacked even though I'm the type to panic and I'm not good at fighting? Should children own guns, too? So if two or more men try to rape me and I take out my gun everything will be fine? No way they can take my gun away and use it against me? I'd rather not live in an action movie. Guns make everyone less safe. Also, while a mugging or a robbery is traumatic it's not nearly as bad as losing your life. There are better ways to fight crime than allowing everyone to own a gun which leads to mass shootings. How many mass shootings in school does Australia have? Abortion lowers the crime rate BTW. And even if it didn't it would still be OK. Guns always increase gun deaths.
I am a woman and If someone is trying to attack me I would definitely use a gun on them. You don't like guns? Fine, you don't have to own one, simple as that. Banning guns will only endanger people like me. Australia may be happy to hand over its guns but the US is not the same. Simply requesting people hand over their weapons in this country will not work. Edit: Also, abortion does not lower the crime rates. In fact murder rates have increased in areas where abortion is more accessible. https://www.hli.org/2012/10/does-abortion-really-reduce-crime/
So you're comfortable using a gun so everyone else must be, too? Guess what, most people are not. And even those that are comfortable are not all great at fighting. And what do you do when you're outnumbered? Guns give you a false sense of security. My cousin was mugged by 4 people while in a country where guns are very hard to obtain. It was traumatic to him but you know what, he has no physical injuries and eventually they found his attackers. A gun wouldn't have helped him in that situation and he's a guy with good instincts and he's good at fighting. Real life is not an action movie.

Do you have any links from a neutral source?

Going to make the guess that countries that suddenly see abortion morally permissible reach the conclusion that birth control is also suddenly allowable.  Leading me to guess that BC makes abortions not necessary as often.
There are fewer places where you can't get a condom than where you can't get an abortion, by far...I don't think legalizing abortion makes condoms significantly more accessible.
Maybe I am to used to strict Catholicism being the force that says no abortion and forbids all those things. I assume it is the religious population that forbids others from using those and always think of other religious peventing all access to both those things.
Right but it's also much easier to illegally obtain condoms than abortions, just because they're sooo much simpler.
That's true.
The title of your post is very misleading. The article simply showed a correlation between how strict a country’s abortion laws are and abortion rates. There are far too many other factors that come into play here, most notably, “high levels of unmet need for contraception and of unintended pregnancy help explain the prevalence of abortion in countries with restrictive abortion laws” and the general wealth of the country. Wealth and contraception. No one who understands statistics would suggest that this information should be used to predict that abortion rates would go up if the US outlawed or restricted abortions.
That's fair, but I think the point was that even among countries where you've more or less controlled for other variables as much as possible, legalizing abortion correlates with lower abortion rates - which is quite surprising! For example, more cases of abortion are legal in Canada than in the States, and yet Canada has a lower abortion rate - and you would be hard pressed to find two countries more similar than Canada and the States.
You don't think the universal healthcare and generally more evidence-based approach to sex education (versus our abstinence education) is attributable to that Canada-U.S. distinction?
I don't know, maybe it is. Trying to understand more, here.
I don’t know where in this specific article you are finding evidence for that conclusion. Also, Canada and the US are very similar, but healthcare is treated quite differently between the 2 states, and population density is probably more concentrated (correct me if I’m wrong).
I chalk it up to poor journalism.  The actual report merely states:
Ah yes, it is whether or not a country is developed or developing that changes the abortion rate, not the restrictions. Thank you for revealing this to me
Restrictions tend to make it more unsafe (much like a lower gross national income), but the rate itself, as far as I can tell, seems to be more related to unintended pregnancies, which makes sense.

All cards on the table, I’m not expecting to change your minds about this.  On the flip side, I doubt that you will change my mind.  That being said, I’m genuinely curious about your ideas and arguments, even if I don’t agree.So, here goes.On the pro-life side, abortion discussion revolves a lot around when a fetus becomes human.  I get the impression that on the pro-choice side the discussion tends to focus more on the social ramifications of unplanned pregnancy.  Some very important points need to be made about social ramifications, but since I come from “the other side” I was hoping I could get a pro-choice perspective on the human life question.I know there’s a spectrum of ideas out there about when a fetus becomes human and gains human rights.  At the moment the legal landscape tends to grant human rights at either “viability” or birth.  However, the time of birth and the point of viability vary from fetus to fetus depending on external factors like the health of the mother and the technology level of the society.  In other words, weather or not a fetus is legally human depends on where and when it is, not what it is.  Is a late term fetus more human today because we have the technology to save it than the same fetus would have been in antiquity?  More broadly, what should be the legal foundation for granting human rights?This seems like a key point to me, but obviously you guys have a different perspective, so let me know how you see this question.
When pro life people start showing as much concern for the mother and new baby (post birth) as they do for the fetus before its born, then you can start talking to me. Until then I'm done with this debate.
Very true!
Hey, so I get that a lot of people see a disconnect between the way pro-lifers view a fetus and the way they view new mothers in need.  Absolutely a disparity exists between the amount of focus put on those two areas. You have to keep in mind, though, that a lot of pro-lifers think a fetus is a human being.  I know you do not share that perspective, but you have to understand that from the pro-life point of view, abortion is drastically more dehumanizing that it is from the pro-choice point of view. Like I said above, the pro-choice community is (perhaps justly) more interested in the social ramifications of unplanned pregnancy than the pro-life community. But the reason for that divide, in my opinion, comes down to different perspectives on fetal personhood.
In general, a lot of pro-lifers come off as scumbags who care about a fetus because it’s not a problem they actually have to deal with. When the fetus is born and a baby, many seem to whine abot medicaid spending, food stamps, education costs, daycare vouchers, and other benefits the now baby could incur. Basically, it needs to be protected while in the womb but fuck the baby for being born and costing society money! Seriously, that is how at least 50% of the prolifers I talk to come off when asked about whether they support benefits like food stamps, healthcare, etc.
I'm sorry to hear about your experiences with pro life individuals.  Unfortunatly, I find a similar phenomenon at work in the pro-choice cominity.  At the risk of repeating myself, a great many pro choice individuals seem more interested in social engineering than in whether or not human rights are being violated.  I immagine that sounds harsh, but unless there is some agreement about what does and does not deserve protections as a human, the social questions cannot be answered.  It's the reason I asked this question in the first place.
What human rughts would be violated? Forcing a woman to carry to term when they wish to end the pregnancy? That uh, sounds like a major violation of the woman’s right not to be pregnant. Easy, if it is not parasitic and depending on forcing another human being to give it life or nutrients from its own body, then it could be determine to be human. If it cannot survive on its own, it is not human. Now, before you start acting stupid and pointing to babies, a baby has its own blood stream and disgestion. It can handle its own bodily functions like digesting nutrients in it’s own stomach. The baby can be passed off to other caregivers like let’s say an infertile man who cannot produce or carry a baby to term since the infant can be fed formula.
It's funny, because almost every argument I've seen is about a woman's right to choose and not forcing her into pregnancy. But I guess you see what you want to see, and you've chosen to view the pro life movement as a few steps away from eugenics.
Well yes, we all choose our views.  You think my choice is wrong, as I think yours is wrong, but I said all that in the first paragraph of my original post. You are quite right that many pro-life individuals view the pro-choice movement as a few steps from eugenics.  Many pro-choice individuals view the pro-life movement as a few steps from A Handmade's Tale.  One or the other side may even be right.  None of it has much to do with the question I asked in the post.
Well you’re certainly right about the handmaids tale.
Personal Perspective is a hell of a drug.
Totalitarianism is by no means a consequence of the pro-choice position. In fact, as Leslee J. Newman pointed out in Libertarian Review in December 1979: The Nazis were anti-abortion, yet they were not "pro-life" in their feeling towards certain minority groups. Today in many countries where abortion is outlawed or severely restricted by the state, thousands of persons might be randomly imprisoned, tortured, or shot, as in many of the nations in Central and South America. Thus, it would appear that there is no correlation between the outlawing of abortion and a general respect for the human rights of a populace.
Well obviously.  Totalitarianisim is by no means a consequence of the pro-life position either. That was my point.  Both sides fear that the other will lead to a totalitarian regeme.  Both are (hopefully) wrong.
People who seek abortions are the best qualified to judge their lifestyle and whether they can even afford another child. In general, being poor is expensive. First, a lot of women who seek abortions are poor. No way around that. Being poor means you may pay a lot for health insurance or just risk no insurance in general. A lot of lower income jobs may not have set hours. They may also have alternative hours. Trying to find childcare that covers the 3-11 shift is hard and expensive. Or imagine working 8-5 one day, 3-11 rhe next two days, and you never know week to week what hours or days you have. Imagine if you worked nights. I have seen people say “let your mom help out!” Ok, maybe the grandma in this case is a horrible, cruel person, or dead or still working herself or too sick or a drug user. Some people do not have a parent to lean on. Everything costs more. Car breaks down frequently and it is easier for them to repair it because they can’t afford a down payment or their credit sucks. Or you walk or take a bus. Imagine having to go to the laundry mat to wash clothes. If you have multiple kids with no one to watch them with no car or limited car use, how hard would it be to add a baby in the mix? Babies poop a lot. Cost of formula. Many lower income moms can’t get adequate time to pump despite it being the law. WICC helps some but babies eat a lot. Grocery stores. Most lower income neughborhoods do not have grocery stores. Look up food deserts. Many areas have loads of fast food. I personally think it is crazy we do not have paid maternity leave. Other countries do. We claim to want the best for children yet if you’re a single mom, you may not have luxury or savings to take the 8 weeks of unpaid maternity leave. That is assuming you did not use it up on bed rest due to complications.
I am Pro-life and I support social programs and healthcare for the mother and the baby. We're not all "scumbags" as you put it, and we do care about the child once it is born.
I said “a lot of pro-lifers come kff as scumbags...” Now, your statement “we do care” implies every single pro-lifer cares about children
We all do care about children.
Really? I’ll tell that to my former coworker who had his ribs broken to the point of them being malformed by his mom because she didn’t believe in abortion and was pro-life. She’s pro-life and therefore must care about children.
What on Earth are you talking about? Can you elaborate how this is relevant?
Basically saying all pro-lifers care about children is ridiculous. There are a lot of pro-lifers. Saying many is more accurate bexause many people in general do claim to care about children. There are people who are pro-life purely because they believe in childbirth as the price for original sin and if a woman chooses to have sex, they should pay the price. It’s pretty fucked up. In the mother’s case, she had an affair with a married man but she was Catholic so she didn’t want an abortion. She also did not want to give the child up for adoption because it would make her look like a whore or something. So she hated my friend and abused him. Not all pro-lifers care about children.
I'm really sorry for your friends childhood, alot of people have had $hitty pasts but turn out to be incredible people in spite of it. I'm not religious but I know the Bible teaches to "love your fellow man" so if someone is saying childbirth is simply to punish women then they are not a true Christian, but a true Christian should also know how to forgive and love.  Again, not religious but just saying what Jesus (supposedly) preached. I was abused too before I was adopted and even though I am not grateful for the abusive parts of my life I am still grateful for the chance to be alive, just as I'm sure your friend is.

they can think it all they want...does not make it true. it is a clump of cells and nothing more
Honestly?  I'm bored to death of the question.
Interesting. You hear it a lot? I don't spend a lot of time talking about this issue, so I'm never sure what debate threads have been played out.
I follow the issue pretty closely, like to educate myself, and spend some of my downtime commenting or correcting misinformation online (Reddit, Facebook, etc.), so yeah, it's the kind of thing I've thought and talked about until the cows come home.  It no longer holds much appeal to me (not to say that it was ever the most interesting part of the whole debate as far as I'm concerned).
I can see how you would come to feel that way.  Personally I think this is the most practical and fundamental part of the debate.  Regardless of your religious view, or your feelings about ease of access, or any of the other tangents that both sides go down, we have to have a legal definition.  Nobody really gains from keeping it vague and hand-wavey.
Technically, the way the law is now, it really isn't defined except by extrapolation . . . Roe v. Wade said that states can have a vested interest in protecting the fetus in the third trimester, but it's never been a ruling based argued upon "Abortion is illegal at this point because at this gestational age, we recognize fetal personhood."
So, I obviously come from a biased background, but fetal personhood seems like the obvious and objective way to go about it. On the pro-choice side don't think anyone is arguing for killing what the believe to be people, and on the pro-life side I don't thing anyone is trying to save what they don't think are lives. Is there a better perspective, do you think?
Eh. There's a whole 'nother perspective out there that basically says one has the right to evacuate their uterus at any time, and essentially, just so happens to induce fetal demise when it occurs prior to viability.
I've heard that before, although I can't say I've ever heard it argued convincingly.  It always has this amoral CEO vibe to me, like: "All I was doing was chopping trees down.  If the animals din't want to get killed, they shouldn't have been living in my trees" Like, I get the idea, but it's sort of callus about life in a way that get's pro-lifers in the name calling mood.
The thing is, it's usually argued in theoreticals, because women don't want to have late-term abortions, you know?  I think it comes across as callous because we're not actually speaking about the real-life situations that happen, especially when talking across sides.  When we ground the discussion in the reality of late-term abortion, people become a lot less glib.
That's another part of the problem, I think.  There are women on both sides of the debate. In fact, there are women who have had abortions on both sides of the debate.  I expect both pro-choice and pro-life individuals feel the desire to discredit the experience of those on the other side, but arguments from personal experience are a problematic foundation for any moral stance.

fuck off
I also get tired of hearing this debate, mostly because the personhood/legal thing isn't what a majority of pro-choice people are concerned about. And in my opinion, if fetuses in the third trimester are considered human, then it still doesn't change how I feel about abortion.
That first part makes total sense; you can only run through an idea so many times before it gets boring.  It's the second part that genuinely confuses me. I want to say here that I do not intend to make accusations and I know this is often where things get touchy, so I want to clarify.  Are you saying that you would support abortion at a given stage of development even if you thought the fetus was a sentient human person at that stage?
That's exactly what I'm saying. If you told me fetuses become sentient at 20 weeks or very late-term at 30, it doesn't change anything.
So that's a big disconnect for me, but I'm going to tread as lightly as I can here.  Please bear with me if I have misunderstood. I think that some people would define "killing a sentient human person" as inherently wrong.  This is where pro-lifers start throwing around the idea of murder. Obviously you look at it differently.  There are alternate (maybe better) ways of deciding what killing is and isn't justified.  How do you see things?
I think abortion is a matter of what's more inherently wrong. Ending a pregnancy for whatever reason vs. watching/forcing a person go through that pregnancy that had to end.
Ah, see now that is an interesting discussion, because it really takes things out of the realm of abortion entirely.  Now we're talking about how much of a burden one person has to be on society before it's reasonable to stop keeping them alive.
It's not really about being a "burden on society". It's about "this fetus will continue to effect me and my body in irreversible and expensive ways because it's literally inside of me and that's not something I need or want". I didn't find this argument convincing either until I found myself having to decide between suicide or abortion. Obviously the right and moral thing to do was save my own life; it was an easy decision. If you ever find yourself in that situation, which I really hope you don't, then you can make your own choice about what you want to do. That's the essence of pro-choice.
I'm sorry to hear about your struggle.  I have to acknowledge that my experience on this issue is much less intimate and powerful than yours.  I want to believe that suicide is never the only alternative to anything, but I know that must sound naive and disrespectful.
I think that it's always human.  I think that personhood most appropriately starts with thoughts and consciousness.  I think that starts at birth.
I see.  Sou you would say a fetus is "human" but not a legal human person until it is capable of some level of mental function?  Say, abstract thought or self awareness?
I'm not commenting on legality, I'm describing my personal ethics.
Sorry, I phrased that wrong.  I'm really curious about two things: the difference between humanity and personhood, and how we define personhood in the first place. I tend to think that if you're human, you're a person, regardless of how limited you are.  Obviously that's an opinion, but I think it's a reasonable one. The second point is more interesting, though.  What's your personal feeling on "the threshold?"  In other words, what mental abilities combine to make a fetus a person?
What is a "you"?  "You" is something that we use to refer to other people.  Many things are humans and aren't people: body parts, for example.  Would you consider an anencephalic human to be a person?  What about a headless human, if kept alive somehow?
Well body parts are not alive, medically, so that's not really the same situation.  I actually would argue that a headless body is alive and ought to be kept alive if there was hope of the head being attached.  That doesn't seem radical at all. This argument cuts both ways, by the way.  You seem to be arguing that personhood is undefinable and up to individual or societal consensus.  That view has a great deal of unfortunate baggage, philosophical speaking.
Well, sure, they can be alive.  Your arm is alive, right? You've changed the premise there quite radically.  First, I wasn't asking if it was alive, I was asking if it was a person.  Second, it sounds like you're doing it for the sake of the head, not the body. I am not replying to your thoughts about what I seem to be arguing; I will be happy to reply to thoughts about what I am arguing.
Haha, good point.  I guess I should have been more direct. I have a problem with deconstructionism brought to bear on social and ethical debates. Questions of identity are, philosophicaly speaking, some of the most complex and diverse.  The ship of Theseus examples you have given are only a few of the many was the concept of self can be broken down. The problem is that an idea of self is the foundation of our legal system. Take it away and we all stand dehumanized before the law. As a society we have to decide when in development a human gains legal protection from termination.  Abortion is an issue with a lot of moral weight, but deconstruction doesn't find a solution so much as it invalidates all solutions.
Sure, I'm happy to be constructive. The part of me that I would like defended is my consciousness; my ability to think and feel.  I am a continuity of consciousness (with interruptions for sleep).  If you were to divide me in two and put me in two boxes and have me pick one box to save, I would always pick the box with that ability in.  I feel confident that is not present prior to birth.
Good point, good point. So, consciousness is a real tricky box to open, especially since most people don't have a clear cut definition.  As you have pointed out, you don't lose your humanity or your legal protections when you sleep, so clearly the potentiality for consciousness is at least a little important. Also, self awareness develops at around eighteen months, and I doubt you'd be in favor of legalizing the killing of one-year-olds.

When a fetus reached a unique level of human reasoning and it's brain starts functioning. I think this is the point where we can also consider a fetus a scientifically/biological unique living individual human being. Till that point it is simply a human entity, but not an individual human being.
I get that.  Of the pro-choice views it's the one that I agree with the most, but it does raise some real questions. For example, infants don't have much (or any) reasoning ability until well after birth, and I don't think anyone is arguing for the proverbial fourth-trimester abortion. Also, if you define personhood based on the ability to reason you leave out a lot of people with severe mental disorders.  That's another ballpark entirely, but it makes me worry about handing out humanity on the grounds of brain function.
Nope. Just because it can't actualize those features doesn't mean it isn't there. Neurophysiologists have made EEG measurements of developing fetuses and prematurely born babies and discovered that the patterns of electrical brain activity prior to the 28th week of development are radically and fundamentally different from those occurring after the 28th week. American neuroscientist Dominick P. Purpura concurs with Rose. In a recent interview, Purpura defined "brain life" as "the capacity of the cerebral cortex, or the thinking portion of the brain, to begin to develop consciousness, self-awareness and other generally recognized cerebral functions as a consequence of the formation of nerve cell circuits." Brain life, said Purpura, begins between the 28th and 32nd weeks of pregnancy. Nope. These people still are human beings. Just because they have a mental disorder or have a damaged brain doesn't mean they still don't have a unique level of human-centric reasoning. https://reason.com/archives/1981/09/01/a-calm-look-at-abortion-argume/2
I am not sure who the "Rose" mentioned above is, but I assume this is a reasonable source for the discussion of Dr. Purpura's work as referenced above: https://www.nytimes.com/1975/05/09/archives/fetal-brain-said-to-live-at-28-weeks-role-of-the-brain-studies.html While he is clearly more qualified than I to make this judgement, he does seem to be an outlier, and unless I am mistaken his work in this feild was done in the nineteen seventies, quite a different time in our understanding of brain function. Again, I cannot argue with the professionals, but I also cannot find the "recent interview" mentioned above. I am intrigued by your second link.  As you say above: In other words, before brain life, it is human, but not an individual.  The first page of your link seems to take the opposite view; that up until that point is is a living individual but it is not human.  Note the final paragraph: https://reason.com/archives/1981/09/01/a-calm-look-at-abortion-argume/
Steven Rose, a British neurophysiologist, who in In The Conscious Brain observes that "before 28 weeks the patterns are very simple and lacking in any of the characteristic forms which go to make up the adult EEG pattern." Nope. This data is supported by the work of many neurologists for example: Dr. Michael Bennett, chairman of the neuroscience department of Albert Einstein Medical School, when asked whether a brain exists at conception and whether there can be a person without a brain, answered with an unequivocal "no!" to both questions. It was pointed out that the human brain has approximately 100 billion brain cells and that there are an estimated 100 trillion connections between neurons in the brain. This extraordinary neuronal "interconnectivity" provides the neurostructural foundation for complex perceptions and "personhood" and takes many months and often years to fully develop and function. Dr. Patricia Goldman-Rakic, professor of neuroscience at Yale University Medical School, emphasizes that brain neurons do not exist prior to four weeks in utero, that the peak period for brain neuron development is from two to five months in utero, and that the existence of neurons, per se, does not indicate the existence of a developed, functioning brain. Once the brain cell is born, there is a long process of migration of brain cells that occurs mainly from two to six months in utero during which the brain cells move (migrate) to their final destination in the brain. An even longer process of development makes possible the "interconnectivity" of brain cells which is absolutely essential for sensation, perception, conscious experience, thought, and behavior. The formation of brain synapses that make possible brain cell communication does not begin until about the third month in utero, and most are formed after birth. Dr. Clifford Grobstein, former chairman of the Department of Biology at Stanford University and now at the University of California at San Diego, highlights the complexity of brain development by noting that the brain docs not develop uniformly. For example, certain parts of the brain develop earlier and some later. The cerebral neocortex that is responsible for complex perceptions is one of the last to develop. Dr. Dominick Purpura, dean of Albert Einstein Medical School, has been studying human brain development since 1974 with his research on mental retardation. Dr. Purpura emphasizes that there are a minimum number of neurons and synaptic connections that are necessary before the qualities of "humanness" and "personhood" can be developed and that this capacity begins to occur in the middle of the last trimester. Thus, about twenty-eight to thirty weeks in utero is the minimal time for the beginning of this capacity—"It can't begin earlier," according to Dr. Purpura. Dr. Purpura also emphasizes that critical changes are seen in the fetal brain wave pattern at thirty-one weeks when the brain waves become more organized and, thus, meaningful; the first signs of sleep and wakefulness are not observed until a few weeks later. It is emphasized that all cells have electrical potentials and that the mere presence of such signals, per se, does not mean that the capacity for complex perceptions or "personhood" exists. How these neuronal signals become organized and reflect underlying neuronal and structural organization is fundamental to understanding the basic neurobiological principle that structure precedes function. A very good resource on this: http://meds.queensu.ca/assets/Andrew.D/When_Does_Personhood_Begin.pdf http://articles.latimes.com/1990-03-19/local/me-476_1_brain-stem https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/201429 http://www.svss-uspda.ch/pdf/brain_waves.pdf Semantics is, of course, an issue. However basically, it states that a human being is not formed till higher brain activity. As quoted by the JM Goldenring the original author of this idea: "The brain enables our body, our mind, our personality. The brain is the only unique and irreplaceable organ in the human body, as the orchestrator of all organ systems and the seat of personality. Thus, the presence or absence of brain life truly defines the presence or absence of human life in the medical sense. When viewed in this way, human life may be seen as a continuous spectrum between the onset of brain life in utero until the occurrence of brain death. “At any point, human tissue or organ systems may be present, but without the presence of a functional human brain, these do not constitute a 'human being', at least in a medical sense.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/4078859
I’m going to answer this as best I can. I’ll admit a fetus is always human. As in the species of human, because it has human dna in its cells. You’re asking when a fetus becomes a person and earns rights. This I don’t know, science doesn’t know, and religion doesn’t know. There is really no set point where a switch flips and something becomes a person, however there are some criteria we have chosen to measure this by that some more intelligent animals meet, ie elephants, dolphins, and chimpanzees can all be considered non-human persons. A fetus does not meet these criteria. Moreover a fetus can not be argued that it ever will because up to the last second of pregnancy it can still be a still born. The best way to answer is that personhood is gained in stages and a fetus is at too early a stage to have personhood. The mother, however, without a doubt has personhood. And this her life and body should come first. There is no 100% effective method of birth control and in the current society, the life of the baby is often put before the life of the mother. Pregnancy is a dangerous and life threatening endeavor from which a woman’s body will never fully recover. She should have a choice whether or not to put her body through these changes and risks. Should her chosen method of birth control fail, that choice is given through abortion at a time too early in development for the fetus to be considered much more than a tumor. A mother, having definitive person hood, also has mental health to look after. And an unwanted pregnancy with no way out can put enough stress on her to result suicide. You’ve already mentioned the negative social repercussions, so I won’t get into those. Tl; Dr: This is my answer to the question of whether or not the fetus is a person. It is not. The mother is. And she reserves the right to life and good quality of life because of it.
I appreciate your candor and I respect your opinion. To me it seems obvious that a human being is always a person.  anything else seems like it was chosen arbitrarily, probably for political convenience.  But that is my opinion. I certainly agree that that the life of the mother is as important as the life of her child.  Even among those who believe personhood begins at conception, abortions are generally accepted in situations where only the mother or the fetus can be saved. Truth be told, however, mother-or-fetus choices make up a small percentage of abortions performed in the United States.  Most have to do with the mental burden of motherhood.  This is an area I would like to know more about.  Are there studies that look at the psychological effects on mothers who brought an unwanted fetus to term?
http://globaldoctorsforchoice.org/wp-content/uploads/Unwanted-Pregnancy-Forced-Continuation-of-Pregnancy-and-Effects-on-Mental-Health-v2.pdf And https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4815713/ I apologize if my formatting is poor, I'm fairly new to Reddit. Also, thank you for being so polite. These two articles should give a little more info. The first article is from a pro-choice side so I'm unsure of its impartiality. The second one linked explains why there isn't too much research into this and is more impartial. Most agree for abortion for sake of the mother's life, but few on the other side of the argument will argue for her quality of life. Pregnancy can result in a woman developing debilitating health problems from prolapse of organs to gestational diabetes, blood clots, etc. You can easily look up the host of health problems that can occur and it's likely a woman with experience at least one of them. Not to mention the likelihood of being ripped from vagina to rectum come the time of delivery. She may survive her pelvis being broken, but that doesn't mean it's ethical to subject her to it against her will. Lesser effects like mood swing, fatigue, and cravings can also leave a lady feeling like a prisoner in her own body if the pregnancy was unwanted, but forced to carry full term. And as I've stated because no contraceptive is 100% effective, she could be subject to this against her will. It should be her right as a person to opt out within a certain time frame. That being said I respect your opinion about the fetus having personhood by virtue of its humanity. As there's no way to tell when personhood begins, I cannot agree nor completely disagree with you. Though my former views still stand.
Hey, I'm also new-ish to reddit.  I'm glad we could talk openly about this sort of thing. Your links are useful, although the second one seems better than the fist.  More importantly I think you have touched on the key point when you say That seems logical, if you assume a fetus is a human life.  Everybody is OK with triage, where only one of two lives can be saved, but actively ending one life to improve the quality of another is very wrong in many peoples opinions. If we learned one thing from the lobotomization fad of the last century, humans are very good at dehumanization, even of people they know well.
I actually had to think about this one for a bit. Abortion doesn’t seem dehumanizing to me but I couldn’t articulate why. I don’t consider a lobotomy and an abortion equal. However, I think the posts above mine did a far greater job as to justifying why. I’ll leave them to explain it. After much thought I’d also like to redact my statement that an abortable fetus is human. It is as human as stem cells in a Petri dish, a tumor, or a limb. Human DNA does not a person make. And seeing as the only human quality a fetus has is it’s genome, I can’t call it human. You have given me a lot of food for thought.
As I said in one of these threads already, viability is a moving target, and the other benchmarks seem very arbitrary.  Humanity at conception is rough and has a lot of problems, but it seems to me like the only scientifically rigorous and objective answer. But hey, thanks for your input.  I've gotten more than a little food for thought myself.  That was the point of the post.
First, yes viability is decreasing but a fetus born early is going to face a ling line of health problems. Most abortions happen before the line of viability. Basically, at this point if the lungs aren’t developed the fetus won’t make it unless technology improves. In general, people who run around claiming a heart beat should be the moment it is a “baby” is an idiot. A heartbeat is the lower brainstem. It is not a sign of a higher level of thought. The pig you ate when you had bacon had higher level of thought and personality than the fetus and it has a heartbeat. Well, did. That cow? Same thing. That elephant poachers shoot? My cat? All have heartbeats with higher level of thought and personality. (Side note, working on becoming a Vegan for this reason). That brain dead guy who is trach’ ‘n pegged? Has a heartbeat because it is a function of the lower brainstem.
Well yes, you've laid out the case I made in the origonal post rather well.  Viability is a moving target and most other methods of deciding when life begins are clearly arbitrary.  How should we do it, then? Also, side not on your side note: I find it amusing that you wouldn't condone the termination of a chicken (who essentialy only has lower brain stem functions) but would support termination of a fetus with similar developements and human DNA. In fact, since you are avoiding eggs, it would seem you respect even the unfertilized egg as a form of life.
Did I mention chickens anywhere? To be honest, chickens are somewhat intelligent though. Have you ever worked with them? They learn quick and have different personalities. Not the smartest but they are far developed than the fetus is at the time of the average termination. Nah, I avoid eggs because most eggs are produced from chickens that are kept in small, tiny pens. They sometimes shit on the eggs. Having raised chickens, store bought eggs aren’t as good as free range eggs anyway. The color of the yolk is impressive with how deep it is. However, free range eggs cost a lot. It’s more an ethical vs cost concern. Well, like I mentioned, lung development is kind of important...
Oh god yes, farm raised eggs are nothing to home raised.  Although even free range chickens poop on their eggs sometimes.  I've never been a huge fan of chicken personalities (I had a nad experience with a rooster) but I do have first-hand knowledge of their ability to operate for extended periods without a head.
In that case, the butcher cut too high leaving the brainstem. It isn’t coordinated. It is just kind of no one in the upstairs so the spine is doing repetitive motions and the brainstem doing it’s own thing.
It's a human from conception, and a person at birth. It has rights when it is born. But that doesn't matter. Even if it were a person at conception, that in no way changes the fact that women deserve and need access to abortion, and also does not change the moral question of abortion. Why are pro lifers so hung up on personhood, anyway?
Well, you sort of answer your own question.  Most pro-lifers see the fetus as human with human rights.  In that view, abortion ends one life to make another more convenient.  I understand you disagree, but it's hardly a "hang up."
I said that, even if the fetus were a person with full rights from the moment of conception, abortion would not be wrong and should be fully legalized. Y'all also believe that pregnancy is a mere inconvenience, though. Lol.
he has never had sex..soooo...lol. he dont know shit
Genuinely I don't understand your conclusiion. Do you consider the fetus to be actively attacking the woman?  Like, I understand that pregnancy can and often does amount to physical and mental torture, but the fetus (a human with full rights in this hypothetical) is hardly to blame. This would be like two people trapped in a freezing room with one coat. I can understand killing the man with the coat to take it, but I would still call it murder.  Alternately, it would be like starving men canalizing one another to avoid starvation.  Granted, we might all do it under extreme duress, but I would hardly expect the government to condone the practice.
How are those two comparisons meant to represent pregnancy...? I don't believe the fetus is doing anything on purpose because they aren't smart enough to. But I believe they are in the wrong place at the wrong time, and I believe that if I am being used against my will I have a right to defend myself. Pregnancy is a serious, life altering, dangerous, potentially fatal medical condition. I don't think you can deny that, although I am sure you will try. A better metaphor for abortion would be removing a cancerous tumor, evacuating a tapeworm, or killing a mosquito. And if you want to call the fetus a person, the best metaphor is self defense. The difference between us is I care more about women than fetuses. And you care more about fetuses than women.
The reason I chose the freezing and starving allegories was precisely to underline the life-or-death nature of pregnancy.  Two individuals with human rights are in a situation where only one can survive.  Hypothetically this is similar to  the situation you presented, where a fetus and a mother have human rights, but are unable to coexist: Follow that up with: To me, women and fetuses are both people.  I try to value all people the same.  You seem to imply in the first quote that even if fetuses were people you would value them less than other people, specifically pregnant women. I get thinking fetuses are not people.  I disagree but it makes sense.  What I don't get is not caring if they are people or not, because you support women, and to heck with non-women.
So why are you trying to give fetuses more rights than any other person on the planet? You want to make them into an overclass to which born citizens must enslave themselves, donating their organs and blood to keep the fetuses alive. No human legally has the right to demand someone else's blood, organs, etc, even if without it they will die. If fetuses had their rights curtailed to the same human rights as born people, termination of pregnancy would be legal without restriction until birth.
Oh you don't know the half of it.  My radical quest to enslave hard working adults goes much further. I believe that the elderly and infirm have a right to live even if they need help to do so.  I think that doctors who refuse to safeguard patients with disabilities ought to be open to lawsuit.  I even think (God, I hope this doesn't put me on a watch list) I think that parents who refuse to share their hard-earned time and resources with their children ought to be prosecuted.
So if I strap you to a table and cut out your kidney because my grandma needs a transplant, you're fine with that? And you don't believe you should have any right to defend yourself against it?
Well, no. I doubt either of us supports neglecting children.  I doubt either of us supports extraction of organs by force.  Somewhere in between there is a line.  How do you find it?

That isn't really the situation, though. The situation, if fetuses are people, is that one person is using another person's body for their own gain without consent. Which is an attack, is illegal, and can be defended against. I care about fetuses less because I don't see them as people. Even assuming they are people, I care about them less than the pregnant woman because the fetus is the one in the wrong. Like, I care less about a person who is attacking me than I do about myself or other people that aren't attacking me. Same thing.
I can't reconcile with It seems fundamentally unjust to me. I would also like to point out that the fetus does not cause most of the alterations to the woman's body.  Rather the woman's body alters itself in order to accommodate the fetus.  If anyone is "attacking" the woman, it is her own reproductive system.
That's awfully pedantic. The fact is, if the fetus stopped existing the pregnancy would cease as well. Or are you going to deny that too? Lol.
I suppose I was hoping you would explain your self contradiction, but I'm a bit naive sometimes. Also, when you say what earlier denial are you referring to?  Like, are you just upset that I disagree with you?  Of course I deny a number of your conclusions.  That was literally the first paragraph of the post.
The fetus is a human. It's not about when we "grant" rights to it. Generally humans ought to remain alive; that's usually seen as good. The problem is that even if it's a human and therefore we should respect its life, that principle is in direct conflict with the other good principle that humans ought to have autonomy over their own bodies. The good of bodily autonomy clashes with, but outweighs, the good of human life.
Ah! now that is a useful point, because it touches on some key questions.  I think most pro-life individuals believe that human life outweighs any other concern measured against it.  You may not agree, but it is certainly not unreasonable. More specifically, I would be interested to learn why you would hold bodily autonomy to be more important than life.  Off the top of my head I can think of a number of situations where we hold life more important than bodily autonomy.  For example, we intervene to prevent suicides because we value life more than the free choice of the individual to harm themselves.
Yes, I was actually staunchly pro-life for most of my life, and I believed that the right to life trumped bodily autonomy because being alive was more fundamental than bodily autonomy. I'm not sure that's the case now, obviously. It seems trickier than that now; they are both so obviously fundamental to human experience. I'm not sure what I think about the suicide example, but perhaps it could be argued that suicide is usually a result of severe mental illness, not free choice. Stopping someone in the act is thus both saving their life and also safeguarding their bodily autonomy- it's acknowledging the fact that the person probably isn't in total control right now and making free choices; they are compelled by sickness. And we obviously don't universally prize human life above anything else either. We think it's understandable to kill in self-defense, for example. Some people think the death penalty or killing in war are justifiable. I just can't rationalize any more why someone should be coerced to use their body to keep another human alive. There's no other situation where people would think that would be okay, which signals to me how important we think bodily autonomy is. I'm not convinced that pregnancy should be the one exception.
You make a good point about justified killing, but I think it actually works against your argument since self defense and war are (at least in theory) both about protecting life.  In other words, the only thing that trumps the right to life is...the right to life.  Moreover, both of these examples involve an aggressor, something clearly lacking in the case of abortion.  The death penalty is a sticky wicket on all counts.  I think it's an important debate, but not one that we can conveniently have here. I have to be honest, I think your discussion of suicide is a bit circular.  Why do people kill themselves? Because they're not in control.  How do we know they're not in control?  Well, because they want to kill themselves. All that being said, I think your overall point is valid; weighing life against other factors is hard, and sometimes tough decisions have to be made.
The aggressor is pregnancy itself and the toll it takes on your body and mind, especially when you don't want that pregnancy there. It's something that some people can't or don't want to experience, and hence why abortion could be chosen.
I have a real problem understanding your use of the term aggressor.  As I understand it, an aggressor cannot be a natural process.  An earthquake, for example, is quite damaging, but not what we would call an aggressor.  Under your definition, old age is an aggressor.  indeed, process we don't like is an aggressor. In general I have a dim view of the "pregnancy = disease" or "pregnancy = parasitism" arguments.  If pregnancy is a disease it is a disease necessary for the continuation of the species.
Personally I don’t like the term parasite and never use it . It’s tecnically wrong as a parasite is a different species to the host . I don’t know of any push for prochoicers to stop using the term .
No one has to prove the guilt of the person pr thing endangering their immediate well being before securing the equal right to self defense. Innocent dangers have no "natural right" to harm anyone. Appealing to nature is a fallacy.
Is that true? What if aggressors intended specifically not to kill, but to enslave someone for the rest of their life... if you were justified in killing them to get away, then you took someone's life who was threatening not your life but your bodily autonomy. To clarify, I don't believe someone wanting to kill themselves is the only proof necessary that they are not in control of their reason and choices. We suspect someone isn't in control because we know suicide is correlated with depression, and depression distorts your perception of reality and ability to make decisions. Someone who would instinctively step in to stop a suicide attempt could also support euthanasia and be consistent imo, knowing that someone not burdened by mental illness was making an informed decision about the end of their life.
I'm a bit bemused by your definition of enslavement or imprisonment as a removal of bodily autonomy.  Hypothetically, when we imprison criminals we remove their bodily autonomy.  If bodily autonomy is on the same level as life, then imprisonment should be as controversial as the death penalty. You are quite right that we accept killing in order to preserve freedom, but I think that we only do so when the person being killed is responsible for forcing the choice.  For example, If I was kidnapped and the only method of escape was to kill a fellow captive, I doubt you would feel as sympathetic to that killing as you would toward the killing of the kidnapper. This is part of a larger problem I have with a few pro-choice arguments in which the responsibility for the effects of pregnancy are placed on the fetus.  This makes sense on a surface level, since the development of the fetus is the cause for pregnancy and it's complications.  But the fetus is not acting against the mother.  It is a product of pregnancy, not vice versa. It seems that there is a desire to assign "blame," so to speak, for the effects of pregnancy, but the fetus hardly seems the logical scapegoat.
I don't think people blame the fetus. It's blaming the pregnancy. If you want me to speak personally I can. I had nothing against the fetus, but I had everything against the pregnancy which would have done gross things to my body and required me to use parts of my body that I didn't want to use. The fetus happened to be inside of me, and stopping the pregnancy meant removing the fetus.
I think what stumps most members of the pro-life movement is an inability to connect with this understanding.  The idea of the government condoning and even funding the termination of (and I know this a loaded term) innocent life is unthinkable.  But we disagree, and I guess that's that. Now, I do not mean to put words into your mouth and I understand that not all pro-choice individuals feel this way, but I have at least twice in this thread alone been informed that a fetus is a disease/parasite.  Quite aside from the abortion debate I would submit that this is an ugly and unscientific facet of the pro-choice movement.  Is there internal discussion within the movement on this issue?
You can't have it both ways. Either a fetus is a person, in which case it is committing an extremely serious crime against the mother, or it isn't. Which is it?
Hahaha.  OK.  lets play "What Crime is the Fetus Commiting!" Trespassing You do know that "trespassers will be shot" is not a legal pronouncement, right?  Plus, the fetus did not trespass under it's own volition.  Abortion would literally be like killing a person for being put on private property while they were unconscious. Murder of Some Sort That's going to be difficult to make stick in most abortion cases, and even if you could make a convincing argument, most states don't allow for execution for manslaughter, which would probably be your best bet. Battery or Domestic Assault This is probably your best bet, and I think you might even be able to convince a jury on this one, but I think you'll have a hard time demonstrating that the fetus wasn't under extreme duress, seeing as it would die without taking up space in the womb. In any event, you can't commit a crime without competence, which I think you would claim a fetus does not have.  All in all, "if the fetus is a person it's committing a crime" is probably not the path you want to take on this issue.  Turns out that our legal system provides a great many more protections to most post-birth criminals than it does to the pre-birth variety.
Assault. To which the victim has every right to defend herself through abortion. If someone breaks into your home (hell, even if you initially invite them in) and threatens you, you have the right to defend yourself whether or not that person has competence. Even if courts later decide it wasn't that person's fault because their actions were the result of mental illness, your self-defense action was justified and legal.
Lol, no. Premeditation negates a claim to self defense.  Abortion would be equivalent to calling a doctor to come to you house after a break in and drown the intruder, witch is most certainly not legal. Moreover, the deceased (i.e. the fetus) has to have instigated the attack.  You consider the attack to be pregnancy.  I don't know of any fetuses that caused their own pregnancy. Finally, the defendant has to have a reasonable expectation of death or major bodily injury.  I'm sure that you consider pregnancy to be great bodily harm ipso facto, but in a legal sense, you cannot consider such a natural function to be major bodily harm.  For one thing, many individuals volunteer for it, and for another thing, pregnancy is literally necessary for the survival of the species.  Essentially the existence of the human race would have to depend of voluntary major bodily harm for this argument to work. http://criminal.findlaw.com/criminal-charges/first-degree-murder-defenses.html

Mathmatically rape is less traumatic than birth. Murder rapes (sexaul homicide ...aka killing for the purpose of rape) is extremely rare. Out of 90,000 forcible rapes reported by the fbi last year, only 3.5 were sexual homicides (only 1% of homicides are sexual homicides, and in the US last year 3500 women were murdered). That is a rate of death like 20 times less lethal than giving birth. Yet you never hear any pro-life person saying deadly force is immoral against rapists...even legally innocent ones (children can rape..so can mentally ill and mentally deficient.) Every birth tears a hole in the uterus and tears the vagina with an average of a half quart to a full quart of blood loss. Most rapes leave no trace of harm on the body. So according to your logic, as long as someone doesnt harm the body "too much" it should be legal?
habitual contempt doesn't reflect a finer sensibility
Would you care to state your ideas, evidence and purposes in a clear and grammatically sound manner entreating communication with a stranger in good faith or do you prefer to insinuate malignments about other people's character in a passive-aggressive manner?
First of all, not all abortions are abortions of a fetus, most abort an embryo. Second, life is continuous and it never stops or starts. An egg needs to be alive in order to be able to form a zygote. A sperm is also alive. If it dies, it can't fertilize an egg. So life doesn't start at conception, it just continues from one stage to another. A zygote is not a person. It can split in two and become the potential for two people up to 12 days after fertilization (identical twins). Two zygote can merge and become one person (a chimera). So a blastocyst or a zygote is definitely not a person because chimeras think of themselves as one person and twins think of themselves as separate people. Is an embryo human? Yes, it is. Human blood is also human. Human hair is human. So being human doesn't mean all that much. Is an embryo a person? I don't think so. Why? Because what defines a person is consciousness. If you don't have your body but you have your consciousness you're still you. What forms consciousness is still not completely known but it's obvious that whatever it is, it takes a developed nervous system that embryos don't yet have. They have the potential for it but they don't have it yet. So they're just that - a potential for a person, not a person yet.
No human, born or unborn, has the right to use another human's body against their will.
It's human from conception, but I think it's ridiculous to regard pre-verbal humans as people. Their minds simply aren't what we value as humans minds at that stage. I would like to see abortion legal without restriction until birth and reduced sentences for infanticide - it's ridiculous to treat it as murder. Technology is irrelevant.
You know, I assumed that nobody held your view.  That's very interesting, although I doubt that even a majority of people on this subreddit would agree. What is is about verbal ability that makes a mind human, in your view?
It's not like there's a rigid dividing line between talking = person and not talking = not person, but it's around that point that minds start becoming recognizably human, capable of having clear thoughts, laying down memories, etc.
Well, actually, we lay down memories well before birth.  A fetus, for example, can recognize familiar voices, implying learned behavior. http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1111/1467-9280.02435 The obvious joke would be that most politicians don't meet your qualifications for being human beings.  More seriously, though, I am wary of defining human life by mental development. Humans have a bad track record when it comes to deciding that some aren't mentally advanced enough to be granted rights.
Many species of animal can recognize familiar voices, implying learned behavior. We don't charge farmers with murder when they send their livestock for slaughter. Of course, there are laws that protect animals from cruel treatment, just as there should be with fetuses and babies, but calling it "murder" when someone kills something that has a mind nothing like what we would recognize as a person is utterly ridiculous, and doesn't justify a life sentence. I don't know of any politicians that are incapable of having or expressing a thought, even if I don't necessarily agree with everything they say.
So in my mind we allow the killing of animals because they aren't human.  A fetus is both human and capable of at least animistic thought.  I think most people would be opposed to the killing of cows and chickens if they were the same species as we are. You also seem to have missed the first part of my sentence in your quote:
Lol no. A fetus's level of thought is well below that of an intelligent animal. So it's mindless discrimination on the basis of a human/not human label? What a great basis for a moral system... /s
I wouldn't say mindless.  As far as delineations go between "things we can morally kill" and "things we can't morally kill" species seems to be the most scientifically objective.  If we had a clear understanding of things such as consciousness and abstract thought, I would be all for using them, but as it stands those appear to be emergent properties of human interaction and development, not fundamental biological traits.
Also, why would someone down vote a post like this?  I understand that some individuals in the pro-choice community see all pro-lifers as bigoted and cruel, but I am trying hard to have an honest conversation.
because you are a psycho and came here only to harass women  .
I haven't read all of the comments yet, but I think this was a really respectful and well argued conversation! Good job! :) Sincerely, A Pro life Lurker
Lol, I could have been more polite in a few of the comments, but all in all I think this was a success.
Haha I could tell some of those comments were written with gritted teeth, but I think that for the most part both sides were sincere and polite! Just different perspectives and priorities. Except for that pro-infanticide person, what the hell.. Haha
Yeah, I always assumed that pro-lifers were just straw-manning when they said some pro-choicers were in favor of infanticide.  To be fair to him, I don't think he was saying infanticide was good, just that it wasn't murder, but it was still a shock to read.
Just curious. Would you ever attend a funeral for a miscarriage, even an early term one? Why or why not?
Lol, no. If the parents want to grieve that way, that's totally fine. But if it's a miscarriage, they likely passed something that doesn't even resemble a biological organism. Now if it's a still birth, that I'd be more open to.
Really?  Cutoff between miscarriage and stillbirth is 19w6d vs 20w0d. Surely your cutoff for attending has more to do with the parents' emotional response than the physical appearance of the fetus.  After all, they're the ones you know, not the fetus.
If a friend specifically asked me to as a form of support, sure. Otherwise, nah.
If a close friend needed to grieve this way, I would. I don't think there's anything wrong with a woman assigning personhood to her own fetus, the issue is when strangers want to do that to other people's unwanted fetuses.
Sure, why not? If my friends/family are sad because they lost a life that was meaningful to them, and they would like me present for comfort, of course I would be there.
If a friend asked me to I would. It's not necessarily about the fetus or personhood, it's about grieving for the hopes and dreams they had for their family. I'd probably think it was a little strange, even though I'm 12w pregnant myself. But I'd go for my friend if they needed it.
I agree that it is the loss of hopes and dreams that creates the grief. And the funeral would be for the people suffering, NOT the embryo. Also, good luck on the pregnancy.
Just a correction, a fetus is a fetus only after 11 weeks. Before that it's an embryo. Attending a funeral for a fetus is weird but a funeral for an embryo would be insane. Of course, if it's a close friend I love dearly I would do it.
I don't think OP specified and neither did I. I'm pretty acutely aware of the status of the thing growing inside me - thanks!
Sorry, I just saw people everywhere referring to embryos and fetuses with the same term!
I have. It's about being there for the grieving parents, nothing more.
Funerals are more for the living than the dead anyway. If it helps the grieving why not? Would you really want to hurt your friend or family by not showing up simply due to your own semantics, or would you want to offer support in a difficult time?
Probably not.
I'm on the fence. On the one hand, it's good to be there to support friends. On the other, the service would probably be heavily focused on the fetus and talking about it as though it were some advanced person with its own personality, which would be uncomfortable enough, let alone if the people who made it are close enough to me that they ask me to "say a few words". I can support friends/family just as well by spending time with them outside of that environment and offering to help out around the house while they readjust.
I wouldn't.  I've had 10 early miscarriages myself but would have found it silly to have a funeral for any of them. Even more so for someone else's pregnancy.
If a friend or family member needed me there, then sure. Otherwise, no. I honestly have never understood why miscarriage is so highly upsetting for some people. Like, it's so common and it's not like it usually happens late in the pregnancy. I can see it being inconvenient, but not devastating. So generally, I think the idea of a funeral for a typical miscarriage is ridiculous. But at the same time, I can support a friend or family member even if I don't quite get what they're thinking.

Just curious about something. Why do you refer to it as an inconvenience? Do you really think becoming unwontedly pregnant is just an inconvenience? As you can probably tell by my name, I am a member of the childfree community. MANY childfree women, including some that I personally know have become accidentally pregnant through various ways, mainly contraceptive failures ( they DO happen.) Anyway, I am curious as to whether you would honestly insist to them that they HAVE to refer to themselves as mothers because they had one of their eggs fertilized. MOST of the women had abortions, with a few having miscarriages. And since you must be aware of the fact that there is currently NO fool-proof contraceptive that exists, how do you propose that women that are childfree such as myself can remain childfree without abortion being available as a safety net form of birth control?
I personally do not think it is an inconvenience, it’s just that many women today think of a baby as an inconvenience.
No, they don't. Thanks to modern abortion and contraceptive techniques, women have gained full control over our reproductive lives. Motherhood can be CHOSEN now, not forced upon us because if we are unable to prevent a pregnancy, we have abortion there as a responsible back up.
Exactly, my point. It is NOT your choice because it is NOT your body. If the mother is not in immediate physical danger, then abortion is wrong. The baby is not just another part of your body, it is a human being. The baby has a beating heart and beginnings of fingernails and other things at just a few weeks. It is also NOT just a “blob of cells”
So how do you propose that women not be forced to have children if abortion is not available as a safety net?
Of course I would. I think part of the premise of the pro choice argument is how significant pregnancy can be to a person, and so we should not push them into it. I think it goes the other way too. Losing a wanted pregnancy can be devastating. If my friend lost a pregnancy to miscarriage I would want to do everything I could to be there for that person.
Me too.
Pro-life here. I only would if I felt obligated to for the parents. I only go to funerals for people I know, so I would think of it as going to a stranger’s funeral
If you care to answer, would you hold a funeral yourself if this happened to you?
Not sure. Depends on what the wife wants, but funerals, in my opinion, are supposed to be communal events for all those the knew and loved the deceased, so I don’t know that it would be a great idea. Personally, I’ve never felt much need for funerals at all, so I hold a minority view as it is.
Don’t have sex unless you want a baby. Simple as that



This is why courts are important people! Do your civic duty and vote.

Funny how forcing doctors to lie about the dangers of abortion is a-OK with the pro-life crowd, but this isn’t.
Crisis Pregnancy Centers should be banned.
Hi all,I currently believe the following:-Abortion is killing a life -Life starts with the first heartbeat -that life has rights (some) -Abortion should be legal early in the pregnancy in cases of incest or medical issues with the baby (what medical issues?  Downs maybe?) -abortion should be legal when the mother is in danger but if the baby is viable, all attempts should me made to save itI’m really not looking for a fight.  I just need to bounce ideas off of people to triangulate to my position.Edit: getting a lot of questions about why I consider life beginning at the heartbeat.  Technically I would say life begins at conception.  But i feel like you can’t really kill anything without a beating heart, it’s not alive yet.  It’s not scientific, it’s just how I feel...and that’s why I’m here, to flesh out my thoughtsAlso, thanks for all of the responses.  Even the hostile ones have been helpful
What do you consider to be danger to the mother? I would kill myself if I was pregnant and denied an abortion. Is that danger enough for you?
Medical emergency.  I hear “Mothers life is in danger” so I assume this happens.  I don’t know.  I could use help on if this is really a thing that happens No that’s not good enough for me.  I’m ok with you killing yourself.  That’s going to kill the baby but the baby doesn’t have the right to pick their mother and shouldn’t be able to keep you from dying if you want.
Psychiatric emergencies are medical emergencies. If someone is suicidal, there is an immediate threat to their lives. If someone is suicidal because of a pregnancy and the cure to their condition is to terminate the pregnancy, you would rather they just die?

How about my fetus will never survive outside of my womb and my other child(ren) need me to not break down every time I remember I’m pregnant with someone who will never live and it’s making me insane.
Yes, this would go under severe medical issue with the baby.  Abortion not only allowed but encouraged
Do you realize that because women and doctors are so hounded on their reproductive rights that women find it hard to find a doctor to help them in this situation. Women are forced into carrying non viable fetuses for up to a month while a doctor is found.
I find this awful.  I also think it’s super rare...but should never happen.
It is far more common than discussed. It is why women take folic acid six months before pregnancy. I have three friends who experienced this. Each had to wait at least two weeks with the fetus growing but never moving. My best friend had to wait a month. In emotional agony every day. She had already named him. As this issue is diagnosed later in pregnancy it becomes more and more dangerous for the woman as the “birth” cannot be assisted by the baby. She went on to have two healthy children. She commented that her first was physically the hardest birth, because at that point it is an induction of a birth, of a non living fetus. Never ever get between a woman and her doctor. You have no right. Ever.
Agreed
If I am being held under supervision against my will in a facility to prevent my suicide while I am being forced to incubate an unwanted fetus I will stop eating and drinking. If they try to put in a feeding tube I will do anything I can to get it out. I will hold on to anything they let me have to either kill myself or induce an abortion. I am not alone in thinking this. I refuse to carry an unwanted fetus. No one gets to make me do so. Suicide of course wouldn’t be my first choice. I would try to obtain an abortion illegally first. In Scotland suicidal pregnant women are granted access to abortions despite the country’s very strict abortion laws, which is why I brought this up to begin with.
I’m sorry you feel this way
You’re basically saying it is okay to lock women up in prisons because you clearly know what is better for them. In your original post, you implied that they would love their baby. Think about how fucked up and paternalistic your position is. Basically, you are acting like you’re someone’s parent or god and scolding them becausd you think you know better. Healthcare is trying to move away from this model of thinking. It is basically telling a person that you don’t live on their shoes but you know what is better for them.
What an insensitive, idiotic thing to say.
That’s she’s not of sound mind if she wants to kill herself?
No, you classing suicide as not justifiable enough a reason to warrant a termination.
And on top of that wanting to hold suicidal pregnant women against their will and force them to be incubators for already mentally torturous unwanted pregnancies. That mindset is absolutely sick. That would make me even more determined to kill myself or end the pregnancy by any means necessary. I refuse to be used as a reproductive slave, and I am not alone, women have always had abortions, no matter how dangerous.  And countless women have killed themselves over unwanted pregnancies. Unwanted pregnancy can be torture.
Mental health of the mother should definetly be a primary concern. Simply threatening suicide is not a "life-threatening" condition because it can be treated and by your definition is "temporary" until the child is born.
Look up the concept of bodily autonomy. Being pregnant sucks the energy out of you, changes your body and the hormones from it change the way you think. Pregnancy is incredibly invasive and dangerous. Woman should not be forced to go through it if they don’t want to.
Ok I like this.  I’ve seen how pregnancy works a women over. So what if we said you get one “mulligan”. Like ok yeah so you fucked up, maybe you didnt get how babies were made.  Now you do.  Here’s your one “no questions asked abortion”. Is this something that you think would work?  Or can I just do this whenever?  Do I have to have it done by 12 weeks or anytime before the fetus is born?
Well what should be done first is to open up affordable birth control options for everyone and teach proper sex education. If people had these very simple things the amount of unwanted pregnancies would plummet. But since for whatever reason this isn’t happening.. all abortion is necessary.
Totally!   We should provide birth control free.  It would make our country better. Great point
Yup it’s such a catch 22 because the people who want to defund planned parenthood don’t realize that planned parenthood is actually reducing the amount of abortions that are needed by supplying women with free and affordable birth control options!
I suppose it depends on how you feel about the concept of private medical records, but the idea of limiting the number of allowed abortions requires losing your medical privacy- the government gets access to your records to ensure nobody's giving you a second.
Great point!  Medical privacy is important.  I have to think about that
Hm, would you really want someone who is seeking multiple abortions to be a parent? Just curious. Abortions are painful. It’s not easy. You don’t wake up singing a song. “Oh hey, you had an abortion but are addicted to meth to the point of where you sell your body to your drug dealer who beats the shit out of you during violent sex. You can’t remember to take your birth control regularly so you got knocked up. Whatever though! You didn’t report the rape since you’re strung out on illicit substances. You’ll live being pregnant!” The world is a cruel place. A lot of people strung out on drugs didn’t want to become like this. A lot of women who get abused didn’t plan on it becoming like that. There is a darkness to the world and honestly, people need to take responsibility for their actions. Unfortunately, responsibility includes choices you may not agree with such as having an abortion (it’s actually not running from responsibility like people say because people are making a choice). I’m not the mother with three kids who is in a rough spot with her husband who may be using drugs and cheating while she tries to make sure they have enough food for the kids. It’s not my life. I don’t get to judge (which amusingly is the more Christian thing to do which is not to judge another person...)
What is it about a heartbeat that qualifies as a meaningful difference?  Heart cells in a petri dish will beat- it's just the cells sending electrical signals as they're wired to do.  Furthermore, Dick Cheney no longer has a heartbeat/pulse- is he the undead?  (That one's more for humor). Does this mean you would be okay with abortions prior to a heartbeat? (Just to clarify, also not looking for a fight- just that these are some questions that I think your statements might engender).
Dick Cheney has an LVAD???
Yep!  Put in in 2010.
That’s pretty impressive. I remember a debate I had in Facebook (I’m actually a girl) and this wokan who worked “in a level I trauma center” wanted to have a debate about how important the heart beat was and we declare people brain dead when they could still have one and other people just have whirring. Pretry sure she was a nursing assistant or unit clerk considering she used the term life support which I hate!
Thanks for the reply! I think when I heard my sons heartbeat it got real for me.  Not scientific I know.  I know that prolifers say it’s at conception and I understand that but it just doesn’t ring true to me.  Again, not scientific. Yes, right now I feel like pre heartbeat abortions are fine.
Science says life begins at conception, I just don’t care. Just because it’s a life doesn’t give it free access to my body.
Yeah, I’m not sure your argument is well thought out but more power to you
When you propose laws, you shouldn’t let emotional ties like that get in the way. You are implying that a woman will love being pregnant. Maybe you or your significant other loved being pregnant, there are women who hated it so much that they want to become sterilized. I have been medically trained. I have dealt with shells of people who have a heart beat. Life support is TV jargon but there have been a few cases where families did not want to admit their loved one was dead and gone. Perfuse brain damage. They had a heartbeat but that’s not a sign of a higher thought, it’s part of the brainstem. Even then, the heart cells have an intrinsic beat to beat even when they aren’t getting signals. Sometimes that can fuck a person up but if can also save them if something goes wrong.
It might help if I could know your justification for these things, because most of them are nebulous or entirely nonsensical. What is "danger" to you? What makes you feel qualified to decide when someone gets medical care they need? What makes you feel qualified to dictate the lives of others? What makes a heartbeat significant to you? How much of a risk if death do you agree to force someone else to endure before so graciously saying it's okay for them to mitigate that risk?
Wow that post is dripping with some hate huh? Anyway as for danger, I don’t know, I mentioned that and I’ve heard people say they allow for abortions in case where it endangers the mothers life.  I agree with this so I’m looking for more clarification on this and I assumed this was the best place to get more detail on that. Heartbeats mean life to me.
There's a really, really excellent chapter in Lori Freedman's Willing and Unable: Doctors' Constraints in Abortion Care that discusses miscarriage management in Catholic hospitals- basically, what happens when a woman comes into the hospital actively miscarrying a pregnancy prior to viability and is potentially at risk of infection, but the doctors' hands are tied by the Catholic Church's Directive 47. Obviously, the Church has very specific rules that I think even some anti-abortion folks would disagree with (their policies, for example, led to the death of Savita Halappanavar), but the stories Lori shares are quite illustrative of just how poorly actual practice of medicine fits in with black-and-white laws.  in essence, it's very naive to think that an emergent situation will be viewed the same by all doctors or that the best course of action in their opinion will be the same, and it should worry us all what kind of chilling effect fear of prosecution for a crunch-time decision will have. If I have time, I'll copy and paste a couple of stories here. Edited to add:
Death of Savita Halappanavar Savita Halappanavar, a 31-year-old dentist, originally from India, died on 28 October 2012 at University Hospital Galway in Ireland due to the complications of a septic miscarriage at 17 weeks' gestation. The miscarriage took seven days to unfold, and early in the process, when it was clear that the miscarriage was inevitable, Halappanavar requested an abortion. At that time the medical team had not diagnosed her with a blood infection, and her request was denied because the medical team did not judge that her life was in danger. The medical team eventually did diagnose the sepsis and began trying to treat it, and when they determined that Halappanavar's life was in danger they had planned to administer misoprostol to induce delivery, but the miscarriage completed before they were able to. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source | ^Donate ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
If you want to find out how dangerous it is for a woman to go through pregnancy, why not go to a doctor and ask. Why come here?
1 dr vs dozens of people used to arguing their point.  There’s no better place
Why do you think that? How early?  Most issues with fetuses get diagnosed in the 16-24 week range. How in danger?
See edit 10 weeks? I’m flexible Her life is in danger.
Alright, so tell me why you think a heartbeat is significant.  Me, I don't think it is.  I think that thought and containing a consciousness is significant. So why 10 weeks?  Incidentally, there are very few, if any, issues with the fetus that can be diagnosed at 10 weeks. How in danger?
http://www.patheos.com/blogs/lovejoyfeminism/2012/10/how-i-lost-faith-in-the-pro-life-movement.html This woman has a wonderful take on it. Please read it, it will help you formulate a strong position for how you feel.
Thanks.  I’m not really into stories where the subject swings wildly from one end of the spectrum to the other but I’m reading it now
Please do. She doesn’t swing her opinions, she only switches “sides”. You can work hard to save babies and still be pro-choice.
Re: when life starts - Stephanie Gray (a pro-life-er) has a really good argument that life starts at conception. That single cell will grow into a fully formed human, assuming nothing goes wrong (so actually only a small percentage of the time, but hey!). It has human DNA. It is alive in that it is consuming nutrients and attempting to replicate itself. So, it must be alive and it must be human. So, yes, I think abortion is killing a life. However, there are many cases where I think its acceptable to kill someone. For example, if someone is trying to stab you, and the only way you can stop them is by shooting them, that's acceptable. You should try not to kill them, but if it's unavoidable, it's acceptable. If someone is raping you, and the only way you can make them stop is by killing them, you're allowed to do that. So, if someone is existing inside your uterus, and you don't consent, and the only way to make them stop is to kill them, that's acceptable. If there's a way to make them stop without killing them, I think it's a good idea to try not to. But as it stands, with fetuses, in most cases they cannot survive on their own. But that doesn't make the uterus-bearer responsible for giving up their body to the fetus. For example, there are people who WILL DIE because their kidneys are failing, and if we put one of your kidneys in them, they would NOT DIE and also you would (almost certainly) survive. However, we aren't allowed to force you to give up your kidney without your consent. Similarly, a pregnant person should not be forced to give up their uterus for another human's survival, unless the pregnant person consents. Pregnancies are extremely risky, even in terms of non-lethal effects. They can damage your body and career in lasting ways. The pregnant person has every right to not consent to have another human live inside them and damage their body. They can choose to revoke consent at any point during the pregnancy, just like you can choose at any point during sex to revoke consent and ask the other person to stop.
So you are ok, legally, with a person using 12 week abortions as their birth control? I just want to test where you are at with this
Yeah, mainly because that's a total non-issue. I don't know how much you've read about abortions, but even before 12 weeks they're no cake walk. It's incredibly unpleasant and will certainly ruin your day if not your whole week. If someone feels that's the best option available to them in terms of birth control, I honestly just feel really sorry for them.
What do you mean by beating heart? Cardiac cells develop and start pulsing long before there's an actual organ. You do realize many medical issues with the baby can't be diagnosed until 20+ weeks? Then you support abortion on demand and without restriction. Every pregnancy involves danger.
They need to make a sticky thread for people to post in for the “change my mind” people. First off, heartbeat is a function of the brainstem. You can have a heartbeat without any higher level of thought. Animals have a heartbeat and show more independence and higher level of thought than fetuses so clearly a heartbeat really means nothing. Also, if you start assigning rights to the fetus, is it ethical to force womeb to be considered baby factories? Is it ethical to lock them up in facilities to ensure they are eating healthy, abstaining from drugs, abstaining from alcohol, abstaining from risky behaviors like sex with strangers? What if they are noncompliant with diabetic medication? Should we lock them up? Protective custody is a real thing in some areas.

Judge blocked it
Woohoo!

If you're actually a calvanist. I'm not surprised if you're literally cheering on the suffering of others.
Yeah, people are no longer going to be able to murder their children after 15 weeks, wow such suffering, much pain
Abortion isn't murder bud. Your god has murdered thousands of people btw, so I wouldn't complain.
Yes, it is. Life is in God's hands so God can take life whenever He pleases. Nobody deserves life. It's pure grace that we even exist at all. We as human beings have absolutely no right to take that which belongs to God alone. You are killing innocent children whereas God rightfully smited those who were guilty. In any case, God will have justice. A million years from now I'll still be in Heaven with God while you'll still be burning in Hell.


Absolutely.

It's not just evangelicals that are pro-life, and they are not the only ones who believe this. https://www.princeton.edu/~prolife/articles/embryoquotes2.html
That's not actually from Princeton University. That is a student group page, with outdated citations and doesn't reflect the views of the medical community today. Let's just look at the demographics between those who are pro-life and those who identify as Pro-choice. According to Pew opposition to abortion (making it illegal in all or most cases) is the weakest among liberal Democrats at 8%, among the religiously nonaffiliated it is only 17% among college grads it is 29%. Conversely, opposition to abortion (making it illegal in all or most cases) is the strongest among conservative Republicans at 71%. among white evangelicals it is 70%, among those with a high school education or less it is 53%. http://www.norc.org/PDFs/GSS%20Reports/Trends%20in%20Attitudes%20About%20Abortion_Final.pdf http://news.gallup.com/poll/154946/non-christians-postgrads-highly-pro-choice.aspx So, the facts show that liberal, college educated, non-religious pro-lifers are very much the minority and the vast majority of the pro-life movement is made up conservative, lesser educated, religious folks. So, if the pro-life movement is based on basic biology that has nothing to do with religion, why are so few non-religious college graduates in the movement? Better yet, if your movement is based on "basic biology, why are there no major groups with names like "biologists for life" or "pro-life embryologists"? Why do the majority of reputable medical organization in the world support a women's right to choose? Its okay to have different opinions, but not different facts.

Pregnancy Resource/Crisis Centers are evil anti-Choice scams.

Interesting debate from the BBC radio 4, worth a listen

I don't see a problem with his views.  He is allowed to have his personal beliefs, just like everyone else, as long as they're not forced on anyone else.  Isn't that the heart of pro-choice?
Exactly
Oh, I don't have a problem with his view. I personally would not encourage anyone to have an abortion unless absolutely necessary. I think it will be an amazing day when women don't need abortions anymore because they have the resources and care to take care of their children. So in that sense, I agree with Connor Lamb. This post was made to support him, that despite his deeply religious beliefs, he still respects a women's right to choose.
I think there will always be a need for safe terminations of pregnancy, because there's a lot more reason than just lack of resources to care for children.
And I agree with that. I'm of the opinion that Abortion should be "safe, legal and rare". We should counter all effects to restrict the procedure. We can do that by supporting more people like Conor Lamb, in trump supporting areas.
I'm a bot, bleep, bloop. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit: [/r/shitpoliticssays] User gets downvoted for advocating safe legal and rare abortions. r/ProChoice  If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads. (Info / ^Contact)
Eliminating Down's Syndrome is a good thing.
Talk about citation needed. I'd say the reason 70+% of Americans don't think abortion should "always be legal" is that some of them are anti-choicers and the others don't think the question through.

From the article: I encourage reading the full article. It is very informative.
We already knew this, but now we have more proof.
Good this needs to be shared. The lies of the anti abortion need to be exposed.
This is the best tl;dr I could make, original reduced by 86%. (I'm a bot) Extended Summary | FAQ | Feedback | Top keywords: Abortion#1 Report#2 women#3 state#4 laws#5

It has been suggested we add some new flairs, please post your ideas in  the comments. Note any comments violating rule 3 will be deleted and the submitter banned
I want a flair for those who are actually medically trained or have some background in the sciences.

I can’t believe that 50% of US adults are still pro-life. This really made me lose faith in my country.
The article is a few years old , the figures may of changed
Me in the future
What field of study if you don't mind me asking?
Had some guy just throw a hissy fit because I made a comment that being pro-life invokces a religious component and is basically forcing your belief on others. The heartbeat laws make me shudder because heartbeat isn’t a sign of humanity
So?

Two living things go in (sperm + egg), one comes out. That doesn't sound like the beginning of life, but the ending of one--or two if the output is completely different. That's somewhat cheeky, but obviously life does not "begin" at conception. There is no "moment" of digestion any more than there is a moment of conception. Both are biological processes which take time through multiple steps and processes. To claim that there's a "POOF" moment is bullshit. Is it when the sperm touches the egg? When the "head" enters the ovum? What about before the genetic information begins to disperse? I it when the chemicals in the ovum begin to change and react? The first stage of meiosis isn't exactly a clear cut thing either. When is this "moment," now?
According to my understanding of my pro-life beliefs, it is when the embryo is able to develop into a fully developed human by itself without needing to take living matter from either of its parents that it can be considered a person. Since the embryo does not take in living matter from its mother, having a special tube that keeps the mother and child's blood separate, it is not a part of its mother. It is an independent organism that grows and lives on its own, taking the air and food pumped into it by its mother. Biological life is obviously a continuous process so it alone cannot be used to determine one's personhood, otherwise each and every cell in your body would be a person. You need to be an independent human organism to be a person. An embryo is a person by this logic, but not a living human clump of cells that has no ability to develop into a full sized human being on it's own.
I'm somewhat skeptical of the argument, since it seems to beg the question concerning the notion of "life" and "living matter," since all "living matter" (whatever that is) is alive. "Living" and "life" are the very concepts in question here (at least for the person who would dispute the permissibility of abortion on the basis of considerations surrounding the very concepts of "life" and "living." This is hinted at in the seeming redundancy of "biological life" and "living matter." Again, it apparently begs the question concerning the very issue at hand. In a way, the argument you presented makes a similar mistake in one very popular (too popular) argument against the moral permissibility of abortion: Murder is wrong. Abortion is murder. Therefore, abortion is wrong. The argument is valid (x = y, a=x, :. y=a), but it clearly begs the question: "Murder" is, by definition, wrongful killing. So the argument becomes: Wrongful killing is wrong, abortion is wrongful killing, Therefore abortion is wrong. The very concept of wrongness is what is in question, so using "wrong" and "murder" separately (when "wrong" is a component concept of "murder") thus begs the question. Also, I suspect there's an equivocation on the notion of "independent." I'm not sure about how having separate blood is relevant. Arguably, having separte DNA is a stronger criterion for the distinctness of persons, but even this seems irrelevant given that people who have chimerism can be their own twin sibling, with different DNA in their body, but nobody would say that someone like Taylor Muhl--who herself has two sets of DNA, two immune systems, and two bloodstreams--is "two different people." I mean, if having different bloodstreams is a sufficient condition for individuating persons (as you apparently claim), then people with chimerism are two-people-in-one; an absurd conclusion.
Begging the question To beg the question is to assume the truth of the conclusion of an argument in the premises in order for the conclusion to follow. It is a type of circular reasoning and an informal fallacy, in which an arguer makes an argument that requires the desired conclusion to be true. This often occurs in an indirect way such that the fallacy's presence is hidden or at least not easily apparent. The term "begging the question", as it is usually phrased, originated in the 16th century as a mistranslation of the Latin petitio principii, which actually translates to "assuming the initial point". [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source | ^Donate ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
Living and Life are in fact what is in question here, but we can't really define them only scientifically. As far as science alone is concerned, I could go slay everyone else I don't think is a person. Personhood is a moral and philosophical phenomenon as well as a scientific one. However, if we bring this discussion in that direction you'll need to PM me because I don't want to risk being banned (not that it's likely I would be, but I'd rather not take any chances, being as paranoid as I am). My logic is not actually what you say it is. It actually goes more like "Killing is wrong, abortion is killing, Therefore abortion is wrong." Even if you kill your friend by accident that is wrong (even though you aren't responsible for his death and shouldn't need to pay for it), and it should be prevented if possible. This is the logic I apply to abortion; it is not the aborting I wish to stop so much as the death of the unborn. I would like very much to make steps to reduce miscarriage rates as well, but it's sort of difficult to get support for such things when people doubt the humanity of the unborn. As I see it, if the unborn are persons then they have a right to live, and so the most important thing to prove is that they are persons, or are not. This lady is clearly not two persons, as she cannot split her separate DNA parts and have two functioning humans. Her two sets of DNA are fully dependent on each other and cannot be separated. If she could be split into two separate and complete living humans (like most Siamese twins can be, given the proper treatment) then I would consider her to be two separate persons. Both sets of DNA are her own, because they both belong to the same person who depends on and uses both of them. An embryo, on the other hand, uses only its own DNA and body to grow and develop, and uses its mother's body only to provide the food and shelter that any living thing needs. By this reasoning, it isn't a bodypart like this lady's "other DNA", it is a new individual and it needs to be in its mother to live.
In logic, there is a distinction between validity and soundness. An argument is sound when it is valid and has true premises, but an argument can be unsound but valid insofar as its conclusion follows necessarily from the premises. Your argument is valid, but clearly unsound. Obviously, not all killing is wrong. Killing millions of germs and bacteria, as your immune system does every second, is not wrong. Killing someone who non-consequentially intrudes into or uses your body (e.g., a rapist, a slavemaster, etc.) is not impermissible, but is not obligatory. (That's one reason why I'll (absurdly) grant full human personhood to the zygote and still maintain that abortion is wholly permissible: ignorance is not innocence (cf. mens rea in law), and if the fetus is (unknowingly) using your body against your will, then such a situation--or threat of one--is an offense to persons no less than rape or slavery. You have the right to remove a (oblivious sexomniac) rapist or your (equally oblivious) slaveholder from the use of your body, even if doing so would entail their deaths, right?) But, if you object that "by killing" you mean "killing persons (and bacteria are not persons)" then you've back to begging the question concerning the very issue--personhood (and more fundamentally, moral status). And if by "killing" you mean "killing persons," and if killing persons is necessarily wrong (as you seem to say), then all killing of persons--in self-defense or otherwise--is impermissible. That's a wildly implausable view. But, if that's what you're saying, then again, if all killing is impermissible, and murder = impermissible killing, then you are, in fact begging the question in the manner said earlier: Murder is wrong, abortion is murder, :. abortion is wrong. Patently circular. Your arguments fall quite flat in multiple ways. Even Taylor Muhl could see that.
No, all killing is wrong. You are able to kill a person who assaults you or enslaves you because they are attacking your body against your will. It is less wrong to kill them than it is to let them go through with their crime, so you are permitted (not obliged) to do so. Even in this situation, however, it is better to do ANYTHING else that will stop them rather than kill them. I therefore do not generally believe capital punishment is a good idea and disagree with your statement that ignorance is not innocence. The rapist madman needs care and education rather than blunt euthanasia, and should only be killed if it is the only reasonable way to protect others. I disagree fully that living inside of a person against their will denies ones right to live due to the fact that you are using their body against their will unknowingly. Does the fact that someone will almost certainly unintentionally cause someone else bodily harm (not kill them, mind you. I'll make an exception for abortion when the life of the mother is in danger and it is the only way to save her) give you a right to destroy them? So killing all persons is wrong, yes, but not always impermissible. You can kill a person who attempts to rapes or enslaves you if it is the only reasonable way to prevent being raped or enslaved. You can kill an enemy in a war if it is the only reasonable way to protect your right, life, or freedom. And you can kill an unborn embryo if it is the only reasonable way to save the mother's life. But you cannot kill someone if they, through no fault of their own, cause you inconvenience, especially if you are partially responsible for that person's existence and the inconvenience they are causing you.
This is a mess. Again, this is the fallacy of equivocation which means your argument--I'll say, for the third time--is circular: If "Wrongful Killing" is murder, and if all killing is wrong, then all killing is murder, by definition. This is a basic misunderstanding between two fundamental moral concepts: "ought" (what is obligatory) vs. "can" (what is possible to do). You're pretty unclear all over the place, but if what you're claiming is that "it is morally permissible to kill a person who assaults you or enslaves you if they are attacking your body against your will," then the conditional claim holds, but not exclusively, since the antecedent of the conditional is redundant given the consequent, you see? What you should say is:  "it is morally permissible to kill a person, S, who assaults you or enslaves you, period" but the reasons why S performs the action are morally irrelevant. Enslavement is a a form of assault or unlawful detainment (even temporary), and is prosecuted as such for good moral reason. All forms of assault are an attack; by definition; it's a necessary condition for an action to be a form of assault if it's non-consensual. This is why one and the same action can be assault and not-assault depending on the consent of those who are the recipient of the action. It's why there exist "safe words" in sex acts, for example. I don't understand what you're saying here. Is your claim simply that killing is permissible if circumstances permit it (e.g., rape)? Roughly, if an action is permissible under certain circumstances, then it is not wrong according to said conditions. How is this hard or disagreeable? Sure, I suppose: capturing an enemy is preferable to killing them in war, but often those circumstances are not available when there are considerations of immediacy and threat--e.g., when they're shooting at you. Sure, I could try to persuade my rapist to not to continue to rape me, but when they are performing the act, then it is obviously permissible to stop them, even if doing so would endanger or kill them. I don't see how this follows, and I never mentioned capital punishment (I'm firmly against retributive justice); nothing of what I said bears on that. If I was unaware that I was committing rape when I was performing the act (say, as a sexomniac), then you're saying the assailant is not allowed to kill me because my ignorance absolves me of the immorality of my act, or somehow acts as a shield of repercussions? That's a ridiculous view, and thus of course ignorance is not an excuse. Your pronouns are a bit confusing, but if I'm following you here your claim is that if a person S requires for survival the body of another person P then S is not within their right to deny P the use of their body? Obviously, three people could be saved if my organs were distributed to them today, but that doesn't mean they have a claim to one of my lungs, half of my liver, and one of my kidneys. Furthermore, if you found out that a certain function of your body has been diminished or inhibited in some way because it was discovered that you were carrying your parasitic twin/autosite inside you, then you're saying that it would be murder to remove it? Ridiculous. If someone is texting while driving towards me as I cross the road, are you saying that I cannot, as an act of self-defense, engage in a countermeasure that would stop them from causing me harm even if it meant possibly killing the driver? The aim is not to kill the driver, but to stop the car from causing harm; if doing the latter causes the former, it's clearly within ones rights to do so. Let's say that there is a person R who, for some incredible reason, needs to rape in order to live (like a ***hyper-oblivious "rape vampire"***), and upon committing rape doesn't know they're engaging in the act (e.g., as a sexomniac rapist, say), then you're saying that I'm not allowed to stop R from raping me? That seems to be a wildly implausable implication of what you've said (however confusedly so). Now I'm confused. Do you mean all killing of persons is wrong, or simply killing all persons is wrong (i.e., rendering the human race extinct?), but not necessarily impermissible? What are you talking about? (In logic, this is called a "scope fallacy" ) I'm not only being inconvenienced by being raped by R, that's for sure. What if R happened to be my great grandchild? I'm "partially responsible" for their existence, but it seems that I'm still fully within my rights to deny R my body. In sum, I think your argument--as much as I can make of it, anyway--is highly problematic on multiple grounds. Your continued ad hoc contentions are both logically and morally confused.
The important error here is that the person isn't a (human) organism. The person is a computation (software), running on the brain like on a computer.
Computational theory of mind In philosophy, a computational theory of mind names a view that the human mind or the human brain (or both) is an information processing system and that thinking is a form of computing. The theory was proposed in its modern form by Hilary Putnam in 1961, and developed by the MIT philosopher and cognitive scientist Jerry Fodor (who was Putnam's PhD student) in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. Despite being vigorously disputed in analytic philosophy in the 1990s (due to work by Putnam himself, John Searle, and others), the view is common in modern cognitive psychology and is presumed by many theorists of evolutionary psychology; in the 2000s and 2010s the view has resurfaced in analytic philosophy (Scheutz 2003, Edelman 2008). The computational theory of mind holds that the mind is a computation that arises from the brain acting as a computing machine. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source | ^Donate ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
If the author has given any scientific reasoning for why conception does not mark the beginning of a new and living human organism I surely did not see it. Seems that she shifted from pretending to be a biological argument to a philosophical one when she says an embryo can not be viewed as morally equivalent. I am not sure how anyone can take this seriously. It’s one thing to be prochoice based on bodily autonomy or something like that but to try and deny basic biology is just ridiculous imo. And really puts up barriers when conversing with the other side.
First off the Author was a he. That's some pretty credible ethos if you ask me. From the Article: As an infertility specialist, I witness human fertilization in the laboratory every day. The human egg is a single living cell and it becomes a one-cell embryo if it successfully combines with a live sperm. No new life is formed — the egg and the sperm were already alive — and fertilization is not instantaneous. The multicellular pre-implantation embryo cannot be equated with a human being. It is a collection of stem cells, each of which has the capacity to grow into any part of the placenta, as well as fetal tissues and organs, but it is not itself a new human life. It is also potentially more than one individual since identical twins are the result of a single implantation. From a scientific perspective, life doesn't begin at any one point, it is a continuum. I want to break down something here. Let's just look at the demographics between those who are pro-life and those who identify as Pro-choice. According to Pew opposition to abortion (making it illegal in all or most cases) is the weakest among liberal Democrats at 8%, among the religiously nonaffiliated it is only 17% among college grads it is 29%. Conversely, opposition to abortion (making it illegal in all or most cases) is the strongest among conservative Republicans at 71%. among white evangelicals it is 70%, among those with a high school education or less it is 53%. http://www.norc.org/PDFs/GSS%20Reports/Trends%20in%20Attitudes%20About%20Abortion_Final.pdf http://news.gallup.com/poll/154946/non-christians-postgrads-highly-pro-choice.aspx So, the facts show that liberal, college educated, non-religious pro-lifers are very much the minority and the vast majority of the pro-life movement is made up conservative, lesser educated, religious folks. So, if the pro-life movement is based on "basic biology" that has nothing to do with religion, why are so few non-religious college graduates in the movement? Better yet, if your movement is based on "basic biology, why are there no major groups with names like "biologists for life" or "pro-life embryologists"? Why do the majority of reputable medical organization in the world support a women's right to choose? Its okay to have different opinions, but not different facts. At the end of the day, I am going to trust a trained OB/GYN from a reputable institution who is the president of one of the largest and most prestigious organizations involved in reproductive medicine, over redditor who couldn't be bothered over reading the article properly.
Oh, how do you know? I didn't want to assume so I usually just stick with feminine pronouns. I don't agree. Perhaps more credible than a regular person but not nearly as credible as an actual biologist or embryologist. I don't see how this demonstrates his point at all. Of course an egg and sperm are alive. The question is when a new and living human organism begins to exist. The human organism does not exist prior to fertilization. The human organism begins to exist at fertilization. The fact that the sperm and egg are alive does not negate this fact. Why would it? Now here he states an opinion but does not back it up. Why is it that it is not a living human organism? Because it can split? Because it can grow? He makes no sense. The definition of human organism does not necessitate that you can not split or grow. Sorry but I just don't see the point. Please feel free to elaborate. What am I missing here? Maybe life in general but we are talking about the life of a new human organism. That has a clear starting point and that is during fertilization. This study is American. It is ethnocentric. There is a whole world out there with differing views. I don’t view higher educated people as necessarily smarter. I have met many people who have much less formal education than me (and I hold 2 university degrees including Honours) that are just as intelligent or perhaps more. I think it is a silly assumption to equate intelligence with education. Things are not so black and white. Well there is this and this. I don't agree that most medical organisations support abortion rights. In fact in much of the world doctors refuse to preform them. Seehere. 70% of Italian doctors refuse to perform abortion. In fact, most of the rest of the world restricts abortion. In Europe it is illegal (with exception for life) after 12 weeks. In Ireland, Poland, Chile and other countries it is banned (with exception for life). The USA is only one of four countries that allows abortion after the 24th week. Pretty barbaric if you ask me. I read the article properly. I think your biased has blocked you from actually analyzing and understanding it. Obgyns are not biologist. They are medical doctors. These are very different things. I am not suggesting that my opinion is more important than the authors. He is obviously a more credible source than me. What I am suggesting is that you pick up a biology textbook or find a biological resource and see that they are not in agreement with the author of this article. See here.
This will be Part 1 of my Response. Part 2 will be in the repy to this comment. Um, what? Dr. Paulson is an actual embryologist and has biological training and expertise. Let's take a look at some of his qualifications. Dr. Paulson has been rated one of “The Best Doctors in America” continuously since 1994. He has published several landmark investigations addressing the effect of age upon female fertility, The American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Inc. (Reproductive Endocrinology), 1988 Certification The American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Inc. (Obstetrics and Gynecology), 1987 Certification You can read the rest here: http://uscfertility.org/about-usc-fertility/richard-j-paulson-md/ I just gave a few highlights. TLDR: This guys is literally one of the most reputable doctors in the country and has published landmark research in regards to the issue of fertilization of and reproductive medicine. I would wager he is probably one of the highest levels of citeable experts we could get when it comes to the Abortion Debate. This is a tricky concept within itself which is why Dr. Paulson was mainly focusing on the issue of there being a continuum. For example, what do you mean by "human organism"? Science by its nature is fairly open-ended and you need to define proper terms for this debate. For example, Science can tell us what a ball of cells looks like at various stages of development, but it doesn't tell us what to call it. That is because science is not a collection of facts handed down from on high, but a method by which we learn about the world. Science can definitely inform our terminology, however. For instance, we know that "human organism" is a much messier term than you might expect. For example, let's look at tumors. They are genetically distinct, and some of them can live in a petri dish. Some tumors are communicable; are those parasitic organisms, or are they just balls of cells? Relevant to human development, we know that a huge percentage of blastocysts (the balls of cells just after fertilization) are non-viable and will be flushed out of the uterus. If I remember right, it's around 50% or higher. Occasionally, a blastocyst that doesn't get flushed out can become cancerous. Is that cancer an "individual human organism?" Even if the blastocyst is viable, miscarriages are very common. Are those all "individual human organisms" that are dying? It is also possible in many mammals, if a pregnant female is under stress, for the uterus to reject a fetus. It has been suggested that this can happen in humans. Should the woman be held accountable for murder if this happens? Life is not a state but an activity; the nature of the life of a living organism is indicated by the nature of its activity. If the life of the zygote - or rather, the life of its individual cells - is not yet human life, there ought to be evidence at some later stage of a change of nature from the not-yet-human- to the human. That change would be evident in the becoming present of new activities, or of new abilities giving the potentiality for new activities: not a change of activity such that some ability already latent begins to show itself, but a change which indicates that new abilities and therefore new potentialities have become present. The second answer to be sought, therefore, is whether at any stage in the process of development there is any such evidence of a change of nature. The commencement of cellular differentiation is evidence that the embryo has now become organized, but there is no evidence from its activity to suggest that the life of this new organism is human. Building the new body by cellular replication according to genetic instructions interacting with environmental factors is no more than the cellular activity which will continue to build and maintain and repair the body tissues for many years to come. It is not the activity we mean when we speak of human life. Once could argue unique brain function is when we reach the point where a fetus displays the functions for what is considered the criteria of what it means to be a human being. That is a problem here too. The view that a human organism comes into existence at—or at the end of—fertilization is logically untenable and unscientific, because a fertilized egg may split and produce twins. If it is even physically possible for a fertilized egg to produce twins (whether it actually does so or not), a fertilized egg cannot be identical to an organism. As long as it is possible to twin, a zygote is not a human anything, but a cell cluster. In the case of twinning, neither of the two humans that eventually develop can be identified as the same human as the zygote, because they can’t both be so, as they are different humans from one another. It is logically impossible for one organism to be identical to two organisms. And, of course, anything that is logically impossible is biologically impossible. In twinning, two (or more) twins come from a single fertilized egg. But neither of the twins is identical to that fertilized egg, on pain of contradiction. To see this, suppose that a zygote (a cell cluster) divides and twins result. Call the zygote “A,” and one of the twins “B” and the other twin “C.” If A were identical to both B and C, then—by the transitivity of identity—B and C would be identical to each other. But B is clearly not identical to C. Therefore, A (the zygote) cannot be identical to B and C. A human organism cannot come into existence until there is no further possibility of “twinning". While I understand that, I think the overall data shows that education, especially at the graduate level consistently correlates with Pro-Choice views. While you don't need a good education to be intelligent, intelligence as a whole usually correlates with a high amount of education. While your personal experiences are relevant, they do not impact the data that I presented. You still have to deal with the choice that as a whole the pro-life movement is uneducated and highly religious compared to the pro-choice movement. Which shows that as a whole the Pro-Choice perspective correlates with higher education and intelligence. I was under the impression we were focusing on the abortion debate in the U.S. Your first citation was from the American Association of Pro-life Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Which is a religious special interest group. Let's look at a few of their views: Even though the consensus in the medical community is that childbirth carries much more risk than abortion, AAPLOG continues to profess that the claim is under-researched, “a serious distortion of reality” and simply “pro-abortion speculation.” The official statement of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists is that “where abortion is legal, it is extremely safe.” Numerous research has debunked this issue: https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2018/03/16/593447727/landmark-report-concludes-abortion-is-safe And your organization just lost all its credibility when it decides to start citing claims that have been debunked time and time again As for your second link. That is not an actual published page by Princeton University, it is simply a website used by the school's student pro-life group. The University itself does not express those views. So in summation, you gave me a debunked medical "organization" and student pro-life page. Not very credible if you ask me.
Part 2 of my response, Part 3 will be in the reply to this comment. Really? Let's take a look at what the Premier Medical Organizations have to say about Abortion. The American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), composed of around 58,000 medical personnel, state that abortion is reproductive health care. The AAPLOG that you mentioned earlier, is a religious offshoot of the ACOG and is no longer affiliated with the main, more scientifically literate, nonmagical-thinking health organization. "ACOG has long recognized that abortion is an essential component of health care for millions of women, and has opposed legislative interference into health decision-making. Many years ago, the United States Supreme Court decided that the state has no right to interfere with these decisions, as they are between a patient and her physician." "Induced abortion is an essential component of women's health care. Like all medical matters, decisions regarding abortion should be made by patients in consultation with their healthcare providers and without undue interference by outside parties. Like all patients, women obtaining an abortion are entitled to privacy, dignity, respect, and support." https://www.acog.org/About-ACOG/News-Room/Statements/2016/ACOG-Statement-on-Abortion-Bans?p=1 https://www.acog.org/Clinical-Guidance-and-Publications/Committee-Opinions/Committee-on-Health-Care-for-Underserved-Women/Increasing-Access-to-Abortion American Medical Association: "[We] oppose legislative interference with the practice of medicine and a woman’s relationship with her doctor... Access to safe and legal abortion is an important aspect of women’s health care. Abortion is one of the safest medical procedures performed in the United States." https://www.acog.org/~/media/News%20Releases/20131220Release.pdf The American Medical Women's Association [AMWA] will oppose efforts to overturn or weaken Roe v. Wade, either directly or indirectly, as in the case of legislation which burdens access to the abortion procedure. AMWA considers all such laws and court rulings to interfere with the doctor-patient relationship, and thus to violate medical autonomy and pose threats to the individual as well as the public health." https://www.amwa-doc.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/12/August-3-2017-Amici-Curiae-Brief-for-Planned-Parenthood.pdf Association of Reproductive Health Care Professionals: “Abortion care is a critical component of comprehensive reproductive health care, and ARHP supports a woman’s right to choose to have an abortion. The decision to continue or terminate a pregnancy belongs to the pregnant woman. ARHP opposes any judicial, legislative, or administrative attempt at the local, state, or federal levels to ban any abortion procedure or medical procedure to terminate a pregnancy.” http://www.arhp.org/about-us/position-statements The American Academy of Family Physicians "RESOLVED, That the American Academy of Family Physicians support chapter efforts that oppose legislation that imposes on abortion providers unnecessary requirements that infringe on the practice of evidence-based medicine, and be it further RESOLVED, That the American Academy of Family Physicians oppose national legislation that imposes unnecessary requirements on abortion providers, reducing doctors’ ability to provide evidence-based and patient-centered care..." https://www.aafp.org/dam/AAFP/documents/events/alf_ncsc/business/sat-advocacy.pdf Well would you look at that! Literally every mainstream medical organization in the U.S supports the right to choose! I can't wait for you to tell me that all these hundreds of thousands of doctors are wrong, and your 2500 strong debunked religious organization and student pro-life group are correct. Italy is a predominately Catholic Country... I am not surprised at all. But thank you for the link, because if you had read the article you would see. The majority of doctors in other European Countries support the right to choose:https://www.ipsos.com/en-us/news-and-polls/overview?id=7150 Actually, though this is official European Law, it's very easy to get abortions past this stage. The de-facto abortion laws are very different than the de-jure laws that have been established. http://www.slate.com/blogs/xx_factor/2013/08/06/abortion_in_europe_and_america_to_understand_the_difference_you_can_t_ignore.html These are all Catholic Countries. Once again I am not surprised. Fun note btw Ireland's Abortion Laws have actually been shown to hurt women's health: https://www.irishexaminer.com/breakingnews/ireland/european-report-says-irelands-abortion-laws-pose-risk-to-womens-health-817188.html Ireland also plans to hold a referendum on Abortion this year, thanks to the growing work of the Pro-Choice movement. https://www.theguardian.com/world/2018/mar/08/irelands-government-approves-bill-paving-way-for-abortion-referendum In Poland, many women are actually protesting the strict laws, which have been shown to harm. https://qz.com/809200/poland-needs-to-admit-it-is-putting-women-in-mortal-danger-with-its-restrictive-abortion-law/ Chile also recently relaxed it's abortion ban after it was shown to harm women. https://rewire.news/article/2017/08/29/chile-relaxed-abortion-ban-go-far-enough/ You just gave me examples of countries that were suffering under their current abortion laws, and are now making steps to fix it. Not helping your case if you ask me. At the end of the day, I don't really see how political and religious demographics of the nation show how support for abortion is equated with intelligence, education and professional medical organizations. Let's look at what the premier medical organization has to say on this matter: The WMA (World Medical Association) “recognizes that unwanted pregnancies and pregnancies that are too closely spaced can have a serious adverse effect on the health of a woman and of her children. These adverse effects can include the premature deaths of women. Existing children in the family can also suffer starvation, neglect or abandonment resulting in their death or impaired health, when families are unable to provide for all their children. Social functioning and the ability to reach their full potential can also be impaired. The WMA recognizes the benefits for women who are able to control their fertility. They should be helped to make such choices themselves, as well as in discussion with their partners. The ability to do so by choice and not chance is a principal component of women's physical and mental health and social well being. Restrictive abortion laws are not associated with lower abortion rates. In countries where induced abortion is highly restricted by law, safe abortion has frequently become the privilege of the rich, while poor women are left with little choice but to resort to unsafe providers." https://www.wma.net/policies-post/wma-statement-on-family-planning-and-the-right-of-a-woman-to-contraception/ And there you have it. The world's top medical organization, representing over 11 million worldwide physicians and medical organizations is pretty clear on where it stands when it comes to abortion. I think the case is pretty close.
Part 3 and Final Response: Careful there. You tried to cite a debunked religious organization, a student pro-life group, random polls from super Catholic nations, and then tried to pass it off as evidence for your viewpoint. Don't accuse me of bias here. Sure they are in theory. But the reality is, they both have very similar expertise and are relevant to the issue of abortion. The doctor I cited, in this case, has the relevant experience concerning this argument. But if you are interested in what a Biologist has to say, I have one here too: "The idea that "life begins at conception" is not a scientific one. Since the disproof of 'spontaneous generation' (1668-1859), we have known that life only derives from life. Life arose billions of years ago and has continued since as a cycle. Assigning a beginning to a cycle (like the year) is arbitrary." -- Dr. Robert Wyman, (Professor of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1998‑present Program Director, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Undergraduate Science Education Program, 1989‑present Professor of Biology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1980‑1998) Can't pull a higher rank in biology then Dr. Wyman if you ask me. Here is an excerpt from a lecture by Dr. Robert Wyman, chair of the Yale Biology department (the guy I just cited above) "There is a lot of false misunderstanding out there, We always hear” It is a scientific fact, as any basic biology text will confirm that life does begin at conception. The fetus is a live human being, distinct from, while dependent on, its mother. It deserves the full protection of its rights." That's what's common out there. Not only is it what people, most people personally believe, but it's generally considered to be a scientific fact....The question is--you've all had high school biology at least, how many of you had college biology? A few of you, guess what? That isn't what--that isn't at all what a beginning biology textbook says. What does it say? This is from--they send professors free copies of textbooks, so I just opened up one that they happened to send me, and it shows something quite different. It shows life as a cycle. There's no start point here. Fertilization is one of the events going around the cycle. This is the essence of sexual reproduction. We also know that there's asexual reproduction, which doesn't have this stuff [fertilization] at all. The cycle is the switch between a haploid genome, which means one copy of each chromosome, and diploid, when each cell has two copies of each chromosome. With sexual reproduction--there's always some version of this one copy/two copies cycle. When we look in detail, this again from the same freshman, very popular, very big selling freshman college biology text. It talks about three different sexual lifecycles. http://oyc.yale.edu/sites/default/files/mcdblecture23notes_0.pdf And finally, I saw nothing in your final link that says "a human being/organism is formed at fertilization". It only discuss the vague notion of human development at different stages. But I will take your advice and stick with the biological coursework that is being taught at Yale University, (one of the most prestigious universities in the world) that is being taught by one of the most prestigious and reputable bioligists in the world. Thank you for this discussion and thank you for being civil and not calling me a baby killer.
Not sure what else we can say to each other at this point. Here is a list of 40 quotes from varies medical and biology experts that say a new human life begins at conception/fertilization. Thank you for the discussion. I will consider your points. I think I am starting to see that we might be discussing two different things. I think we might be misunderstanding each other. Hope something I have said helped clarify my position. If you have any questions let me know. I do have a couple of last question, when do you think a new, living human organism begins to exist if not at fertilization and why? What definition of human are you using? Thanks again. “The life cycle of mammals begins when a sperm enters an egg.” Okada et al., A role for the elongator complex in zygotic paternal genome demethylation, NATURE 463:554 (Jan. 28, 2010) 2. “Fertilization is the process by which male and female haploid gametes (sperm and egg) unite to produce a genetically distinct individual.” Signorelli et al., Kinases, phosphatases and proteases during sperm capacitation, CELL TISSUE RES. 349(3):765 (Mar. 20, 2012) 3. “The oviduct or Fallopian tube is the anatomical region where every new life begins in mammalian species. After a long journey, the spermatozoa meet the oocyte in the specific site of the oviduct named ampulla, and fertilization takes place.” Coy et al., Roles of the oviduct in mammalian fertilization, REPRODUCTION 144(6):649 (Oct. 1, 2012) (emphasis added). 4. “Fertilization – the fusion of gametes to produce a new organism – is the culmination of a multitude of intricately regulated cellular processes.” Marcello et al., Fertilization, ADV. EXP. BIOL. 757:321 (2013). National Institutes of Health, Medline Plus Merriam-Webster Medical Dictionary (2013). 5. “The government’s own definition attests to the fact that life begins at fertilization. According to the National Institutes of Health, ‘fertilization’ is the process of union of two gametes (i.e., ovum and sperm) ‘whereby the somatic chromosome number is restored and the development of a new individual is initiated.'” Steven Ertelt”Undisputed Scientific Fact: Human Life Begins at Conception, or Fertilization” LifeNews.com11/18/13 6. “Human life begins at fertilization, the process during which a male gamete or sperm (spermatozoo developmentn) unites with a female gamete or oocyte (ovum) to form a single cell called a zygote. This highly specialized, totipotent cell marked the beginning of each of us as a unique individual.” “A zygote is the beginning of a new human being (i.e., an embryo).” Keith L. Moore, The Developing Human: Clinically Oriented Embryology, 7th edition. Philadelphia, PA: Saunders, 2003. pp. 16, 2. 7. “In that fraction of a second when the chromosomes form pairs, the sex of the new child will be determined, hereditary characteristics received from each parent will be set, and a new life will have begun.” Kaluger, G., and Kaluger, M., Human Development: The Span of Life, page 28-29, The C.V. Mosby Co., St. Louis, 1974. 8. An embryology textbook describes how birth is just an event in the development of a baby, not the beginning of his/her life: “It should always be remembered that many organs are still not completely developed by full-term and birth should be regarded only as an incident in the whole developmental process.” F Beck Human Embryology, Blackwell Scientific Publications, 1985 page vi 9. “It is the penetration of the ovum by a sperm and the resulting mingling of nuclear material each brings to the union that constitutes the initiation of the life of a new individual.” Clark Edward and  Corliss Patten’s Human Embryology, McGraw – Hill Inc., 30 10. “Although it is customary to divide human development into prenatal and postnatal periods, it is important to realize that birth is merely a dramatic event during development resulting in a change in environment.” The Developing Human: Clinically Oriented Embryology fifth edition, Moore and Persaud, 1993, Saunders Company, page 1 11. “Your baby starts out as a fertilized egg… For the first six weeks, the baby is called an embryo.” Prenatal Care, US Department Of Health And Human Services, Maternal and Child Health Division, 1990 12. “Landrum B. Shettles, M.D., P.h.D. was first scientist to succeed at in vitro fertilization: ‘The zygote is human life….there is one fact that no one can deny; Human beings begin at conception.’ “Zygote is a term for a newly conceived life after the sperm and the egg cell meet but before the embryo begins to divide.” From Landrum B. Shettles “Rites of Life: The Scientific Evidence for Life Before Birth” Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan, 1983 p 40 13. The medical textbook, Before We Are Born – Essentials of Embryology and Birth Defects, states: “The zygote and early embryo are living human organisms.” Keith L. Moore & T.V.N. Persaud Before We Are Born – Essentials of Embryology and Birth Defects (W.B. Saunders Company, 1998. Fifth edition.) Page 500 14. “Thus a new cell is formed from the union of a male and a female gamete. [sperm and egg cells] The cell, referred to as the zygote, contains a new combination of genetic material, resulting in an individual different from either parent and from anyone else in the world.” Sally B Olds, et al., Obstetric Nursing (Menlo Park, California: Addison – Wesley publishing, 1980)  P 136 15. “The term conception refers to the union of the male and female pronuclear elements of procreation from which a new living being develops. It is synonymous with the terms fecundation, impregnation, and fertilization … The zygote thus formed represents the beginning of a new life.” J.P. Greenhill and E.A. Freidman. Biological Principles and Modern Practice of Obstetrics. Philadelphia: W.B. Saunders Publishers. 1974 Pages 17 and 23. 16. “Development begins with fertilization, the process by which the male gamete, the sperm, and the femal gamete, the oocyte, unite to give rise to a zygote.” T.W. Sadler, Langman’s Medical Embryology, 10th edition. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2006. p. 11. 17. “[The zygote], formed by the union of an oocyte and a sperm, is the beginning of a new human being.” Keith L. Moore, Before We Are Born: Essentials of Embryology, 7th edition. Philadelphia, PA: Saunders, 2008. p. 2. 18. “Although life is a continuous process, fertilization… is a critical landmark because, under ordinary circumstances, a new genetically distinct human organism is formed when the chromosomes of the male and female pronuclei blend in the oocyte.” Ronan O’Rahilly and Fabiola Miller, Human Embryology and Teratology, 3rd edition. New York: Wiley-Liss, 2001. p. 8. 19. “[All] organisms, however large and complex they might be as full grown, begin life as a single cell. This is true for the human being, for instance, who begins life as a fertilized ovum.” Dr. Morris Krieger “The Human Reproductive System” p 88 (1969) Sterling Pub. Co 20. “The first cell of a new and unique human life begins existence at the moment of conception (fertilization) when one living sperm from the father joins with one living ovum from the mother. It is in this manner that human life passes from one generation to another. Given the appropriate environment and genetic composition, the single cell subsequently gives rise to trillions of specialized and integrated cells that compose the structures and functions of each individual human body. “Every human being alive today and, as far as is known scientifically, every human being that ever existed, began his or her unique existence in this manner, i.e., as one cell. If this first cell or any subsequent configuration of cells perishes, the individual dies, ceasing to exist in matter as a living being. There are no known exceptions to this rule in the field of human biology.” James Bopp, ed., Human Life and Health Care Ethics, vol. 2 (Frederick, MD: University Publications of America, 1985) Have to break it up. Too long.
Half of which are outdated, from religious and ethical sources and don't actually constitute as evidence. Excerpt from Dr. Ricki Lewis, a science writer with a PhD in genetics and biology and author of several textbooks and thousands of articles in scientific, medical, and embryological publications. “Life science textbooks from traditional publishers don’t explicitly state when life begins, because that is a question not only of biology, but of philosophy, politics, psychology, religion, technology, and emotions. Rather, textbooks list the characteristics of life, leaving interpretation to the reader.” Dr. Scott F. Gilbert, a legendary Embryologist from Swarthmore says “As an embryologist and the author of embryological textbooks, I can say with absolute assurance that there is not scientific support on life beginning at conception, this is not a biological fact”. Here is excerpt from a lecture by Dr. Robert Wyman, chair of the Yale Biology department "There is a lot of false misunderstanding out there, We always hear” It is a scientific fact, as any basic biology text will confirm that life does begin at conception. The fetus is a live human being, distinct from, while dependent on, its mother. It deserves the full protection of its rights." That's what's common out there. Not only is it what people, most people personally believe, but it's generally considered to be a scientific fact. I've heard this from pro-life people and pro-choice people, almost indistinguishably. The question is--you've all had high school biology at least, how many of you had college biology? A few of you, guess what? That isn't what--that isn't at all what a beginning biology textbook says. What does it say? This is from--they send professors free copies of textbooks, so I just opened up one that they happened to send me, and it shows something quite different. It shows life as a cycle. There's no start point here. Fertilization is one of the events going around the cycle. This is the essence of sexual reproduction. We also know that there's asexual reproduction, which doesn't have this stuff [fertilization] at all. The cycle is the switch between a haploid genome, which means one copy of each chromosome, and diploid, when each cell has two copies of each chromosome. With sexual reproduction--there's always some version of this one copy/two copies cycle. When we look in detail, this again from the same freshman, very popular, very big selling freshman college biology text. It talks about three different sexual lifecycles. In--the one that you're most familiar with, which is animals. What happens is you start with a--a multi-cellular organism, that's you. Then meiosis--the splitting of the chromosomes so that the gametes get--this is 2N, N being the number of chromosomes, start from 2N, there's a process called meiosis in which pairs split and you get cells with only one copy of each chromosome, those are called gametes or germ cells, and then from another individual you get a second N and you go back to the diploid phase.” - Dr. Robert Wyman http://oyc.yale.edu/sites/default/files/mcdblecture23notes_0.pdf (The full report from Yale on why life does not begin at conception and why textbooks do not say this.) From this point on, I will be quoting P.Z Myers a distinguished biologist on this section, because he actually addresses some of the textbooks you mentioned: “Human” in these cases is a general descriptor for the origin of the cells; it’s a statement about the type. You might as well say that that one quote about a “male and female haploid gametes (sperm and egg)” clearly states that sperm and egg are human, therefore science says we ought to criminalize menstruation and masturbation. One other point I have to make about these sources: the Moore and O’Rahilly texts are specifically medical embryology textbooks — they are not good sources for information about general developmental biology, and are a bit blinkered in their perspective, and tend to focus on superficial aspects of descriptive morphology. That’s fine for medical and nursing students, I suppose, but if you want to actually understand the mechanics of development, they’re useless. They’re doubly useless if you read them with an agenda that refuses to be budged by the facts.” For example let’s look at other examples of scientific literature: Pass F, Janis R, Marcus DM. (1971) Antigens of human wart tissue. J Invest Dermatol. 56(4):305-10. Warts are human. Ban squaric acid, laser surgery, and topical liquid nitrogen treatments! (Warts actually are human: they are made of skin cells stimulated into benign overgrowth by incorporation of genetic material from a virus. They also therefore have a unique genetic combination.) Kim HB, Lee SH, Um JH, Oh WK, Kim DW, Kang CD, Kim SH. (2015) Sensitization of multidrug-resistant human cancer cells to Hsp90 inhibitors by down-regulation of SIRT1. Oncotarget. 2015 Sep 25. [Epub ahead of print] Cancer cells are human. They are also genetically distinct from their host, with a unique molecular signature. Finch CE, Austad SN. (2015) Commentary: is Alzheimer’s disease uniquely human? Neurobiol Aging. 36(2):553-5. Scientists refer to diseases as “human”, too? Do we need to get informed consent and a signature from neurofibrillary plaques in the brain before we can try to treat it? My point is not that warts, cancer, or diseases need to be regarded as human beings. It’s that “human” is a very broad term that is applied to a lot of kinds of cells, and it takes a particularly naive person to browse through the literature and go “A-ha! My biases are confirmed by this quote!”” http://scienceblogs.com/pharyngula/2015/10/01/bill-nye-and-abortion/ So overall. I don’t see how you can say that science has recognized the zygote as a human organisms when all you have done is provided a list of textbooks that don’t actually say what you want them too, and don’t really constitute as evidence in this matter. By the way, your list of textbooks was taken from the infamous Princeton page which is sourced by many pro-life groups such as live action. Thank you, and the same for me as well. For sure.
Wow, that's a lot of text. Thank you for putting so much thought into your reply. Unfortunately I am swamped with work and family business right now. I will look it over when I have more free time. Sorry about that. Things just got really busy for me. Hope we can continue the discussion later.
Alright sure. Let’s start the basic dictionary definition of a human being: any individual of the genus Homo. We can see the being a human requires some sort of individuality. It requires being something greater than just an identifier. It requires a semblance of development that makes somebody an individual or a developed human organism. Now what makes something an individual? What makes us a human being so to say? The answer, as provided by many institutions, is the brain. The brain enables our body, our mind, our personality. “The brain is the only unique and irreplaceable organ in the human body, as the orchestrator of all organ systems and the seat of personality. Thus, the presence or absence of brain life truly defines the presence or absence of human life in the medical sense. When viewed in this way, human life may be seen as a continuous spectrum between the onset of brain life in utero (28-36 weeks gestation), until the occurrence of brain death. “At any point human tissue or organ systems may be present, but without the presence of a functional human brain, these do not constitute a 'human being', at least in a medical sense.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/4078859 Thus, being able to identify when the brain develops in the human embryo should have a significant impact on the question of when human life begins. It is clear the science and biology show us that human life begins when the brain starts functioning—we can’t have higher brain function before the brain can operate. Thus it is only logical to conclude that a human being is defined by when higher brain activity is achieved. Now at what point would we say the fetus has reached significant brain activity to be considered a human being so to say? Numerous Scientists have put it at around 28 to 32 week as this when the fetus develops significant brain function that differentiates us from animals. http://www.nytimes.com/1975/05/09/archives/fetal-brain-said-to-live-at-28-weeks-role-of-the-brain-studies.html http://articles.latimes.com/1990-03-19/local/me-476_1_brain-stem So basically based on this idea we can see that the fetus reaches the brain birth criteria to become a human being at around 28 to 31 weeks. Now if we look at Abortion Data we will find that abortions happening beyond 21 weeks represent less than 1.3% of abortions. I would wager that abortions happening in the 28-31 week range are literally non-existent and the abortions that do happen this far are almost always of the case where the mother's life is in danger, or they are medically necessary. https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/ss6410a1.htm http://reason.com/blog/2016/10/21/late-term-abortions-in-america-2016 A good article from where I got the gist of my position. https://reason.com/archives/1981/09/01/a-calm-look-at-abortion-argume/
Ok, I just seen this. My response is pretty simple. Yes, I am saying that I believe that they are wrong. This form of argument does not mean much to me. We know that society as a whole has been wrong on many things in the past. I mean, slavery was widely accepted in the US and most of the world not to long ago. And doctors, lawyers, ethical philosophers and the like all supported it. But they were wrong so it's not a stretch to think that they are wrong now. So, I am not really swayed by this line of reasoning. In the end, I was really only interested in discussing when a new living human organism begins to exist. Sure life is a continuum, we know that. But obviously there is a misunderstanding about the prolife point of view. It's not about when life begins. A sperm is life and so is an egg. But a sperm and an egg are not a new or unique organism. Do you see what I am getting at here? I am not sure if I am really explaining my point properly. I think there may be some misunderstanding going on here. Let me know.
You believe the hundreds of thousands of doctors around the world here are wrong? This isn't just a U.S thing, this is a worldwide issue where this agreement. There may be secular/nonreligious arguments for being against abortion in the context of early-stage fetuses, just as there can be for a flat earth., But there are no logical, ethical or rational ones. I used to think the same way with adoption as an alternative but it simply isn't. All these arguments are logically scientifically and ethically untenable. Abortion is a basic human right, it's universally recognized including by the UN and pretty much every women's rights organization for very good reasons. The anti-abortion stance is human rights abuse. But if not well read on the issue it's easy to think the opposite. We don't give rights to cells, if you have understood dolly the sheep cloning you should know that pretty much all cells can technically give rise to a person. The idea that a cell is a person therefore would mean that killing any cell is equivalent to killing a person. You have to see what it is at that stage. And that is a cell. In terms of sentience or personhood it is closer to/at the same level of any diploid cell than a person. To suggest that just bc it has the natural ability to develop is an appeal to nature fallacy bc as demo started in the dolly cloning example, all cells have the natural ability to form individuals. That one cell has more natural ability and therefore should be given rights is to make an appeal to nature fallacy bc just bc something is natural doesn't make it ethical. Also take the example of bees, many bees develop from a haploid/unfertilzed egg meaning life doesn't begin at conception. Also you either believe a woman has the right to determine whether she wants kids or not. As long as a person isn't harmed it is morally neutral. A cell or a clump of cells prior to sentience stage is mo more ethically problematic than any other cell. Abortion in the early stages is no more problematic than removing any other cell or organ from the body. To understand sentience and the ethical framework for abortion check out these couple of articles. This explains it rather well: http://blogs.harvard.edu/billofhealth/2013/06/26/fetal-pain-laws-scientific-and-constitutional-controversy/ While this is the scientific basis, a meta analysis on the sentience aspect http://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/201429 You can be sure that when the overwhelming majority of ethicists, scientists, the united nations, every human right organization and secular society as a whole has taken a position that is against what religion has advocated. Sure, and we know why they were wrong. I am not arguing about society's views, I am arguing from the medical community as a whole. People supported slavery because of religious notions and because of racial attitudes. I never invoked any religious justification for my arguments. Source? Because many ethical philosophers at the time were actually against slavery. http://www.realhistories.org.uk/articles/archive/philosophy.html I am confident a bunch of slave owners using the bible to justify slavery would be wrong. I am not confident that hundreds of thousands of doctors around the world using biology, neurology, and evidence to justify their pro-choice stance are wrong. Sure, and I believe I addressed this with several arguments. I brought up the twinning example. The most popular argument against the idea that life begins at the moment of fertilization has been dubbed the "twinning argument." The main point of this argument is that although a zygote is genetically unique from its parents from the moment a diploid organism is formed; it is possible for that zygote to split into two or more zygotes up until 14 or 15 days after fertilization. Even though the chances of twinning are not very great, as long as there is the potential for it to occur the zygote has not completed the process of individuation and is not an ontological individual. Suppose that an egg is fertilized. At that moment a new life begins; the zygote gains a "soul," in the Catholic line of thought, or "life" in a secular line of thought. Then suppose that the zygote splits to form twins. Does the soul of the zygote split as well? No, this is impossible. Yet no one would argue that twins share the same "soul" or the same "life." Thus, supporters of this view maintain that the quality of "soul" or "life" must be conferred after there is no longer any potential for twinning. No, I understand your point so far. Thanks for being civil and not breaking the rules.
Sorry but I don’t see where it says that he is a biologist or embryologist. Can you link me to that because I’ve searched and I don’t see it? I think it says he earned his degree in physics which is quite impressive but not the same thing. Either way, his credentials can’t change scientific facts so it’s a moot point. Being a fertility specialist, it is no doubt in his best financial interest to argue prochoice rhetoric. But again, a moot point because none of this changes the science. When I refer to human I mean a homo sapien. Distinguishable by it’s dna. When I refer to organism I mean a whole, living entity, distinguishable by it’s actions. In regard to the molar pregnancy or tumor I would say the following. Being that a molar pregnancy  contains only paternally derived chromosomes, they are distinguishable from zygotes based on their molecular composition. Moreover, hydatidiform moles behave quite differently from embryos: they grow as a chaotic mass of disorganized cells and tissues, all of which are unrelated to each other or to anything resembling a whole. Despite the fact that hydatidiform moles are generated from human gametes, they do not exhibit an embryonic pattern of organization or molecular composition; they are a collection of human cells, but not a human organism. Biologist know this which is why they are given another name. This is the beauty of science, we can look at things objectively and categorize them accordingly. The blastocysts does not become cancerous. It already has the makeup of a tumor from it’s conception. As noted above it only contains paternally derived chromosomes. So I do not think you are phrasing your question with a proper understanding. In terms of miscarriages, I don’t see how they are equivalent to an abortion at all? Miscarriages are not intentional killings. It’s the difference between dying of natural causes and homicide. But it is life by the biological definition. It meets the criteria and thus, is considered alive. The author has not given any evidence that it is not life or that it does not meet the definition of life in anyway. Of course there is evidence to suggests it’s human. It’s dna is that of a homo sapien. I really don’t understand what you are saying here? Well first of all, it seems like you are just copying and pasting so it’s kind of hard to take your response seriously. But if you review what has been written here you will see that the author is trying to relate the term human being to a societal philosophy and is throwing biological definition out the window. For this very reason it can not be taken seriously. I think it’s pretty clear that he is trying to sidestep his argument from a biological one to a philosophical one. I don’t see why? Being a human being does not necessitate the inability to split? I don’t agree. Having a different beginning does not make you a non human organism. In fact, it is more realistic to say that one human organisms existed and then at a later time gave rise (split) to create a new human organism. The point of splitting merely marks a second human organism coming into existence. That does not negate the reality that the first human organism was also a whole, new and human being. Well, no that’s not true. And that’s the beauty of math and science. It proves our faulty logic wrong all the time. Black holes, time dialation and metamorphosis are all things that seem logically impossible but happen in physical reality. Actually I am pretty certain that A, B and C are all genetically identical. They are only distinguishable by their physical location and way the individual organisms behave. So I really think you are confused on this point. As I mentioned before this is only in the USA and I am not interested in reviewing the study because education does not make one’s opinions more relevant. Especially when discussing abortion which is a moral issue. I thought we were discussing the fact that biology marks fertilization as the beginning of a new human organism. No it’s not religious. You do not have to be religious to be prolife. Please stop trying to bring religion into this. I am starting to think that you are not really interested in a honest discussion here. It seems like you are literally just making stuff up. Um, the quotes are all from biology textbooks and resources. You can easily look each one of them up. Many quoted from doctors with much more credential then Dr. Paulson. And as I mentioned before, any and every biological resource will tell you the same thing. Nice try. The medical organization has not been debunked and the quotes from that page are all from biology texts and resources. See [here](https://bdfund.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/wi_whitepaper_life_print.pdf, here, here. The last one is from your trusted resource AOCG. They themselves admit in the abstract that, If you don’t get that the definition if human, living and organisms are biological in nature and open for revision and that the scientific community agrees that a new human organism begins to exist at fertilization then I think you are just deciding to bury your head in the sand. I mean, I’ve talked to many prochoicers and most understand this fact. It’s silly to me to try and deny it. I think at this point we are at a standstill but thanks for the talk. Hopefully you’ll look deeper into this issue. This one doctor is trying to push for his definition but does so in a dishonest way. By changing the debate from a biological to a philosophical one. It’s pretty sleazy and misleading. In the end, we all know when a new living human being comes into existence. The abortion debate is not about that. That’s a question of biology. The abortion debate is about which human beings are worthy of rights and protection. That is a different conversation all together. And the one that I believe should be had between the two camps.
PART 1 OF MY RESPONSE Once again, read what I said. His training and fields of expertise involve biology and embryology. As someone who is skilled in reproductive medicine, he is someone who has gone through medical training and has the biological knowledge when it comes to making this types of authoritative statements. If you actually read his scientific paper, you will see he is appealing to scientific and biological evidence to make his case. I don't think you should be making this point when you literally cited two groups with that are specifically pro-life. Dr. Paulson is arguing his position based on scientific facts. An excerpt from his article: "Trying to decide whether information is accurate may be challenging. Those of us who live in the world of science and who use scientific journals to obtain information enjoy some protection from disinformation, which is afforded us by peer review and explicit scrutiny of the scientific data presented. Unfortunately, the subsequent dissemination of scientific studies by the lay media has no such protection. And thus, on an almost daily basis, we hear of results of ‘‘scientific studies’’ that seem hard to believe, which are then quickly contradicted by reports of other ‘‘scientific studies.’’ The consequence of such apparent scientific contradictions is that the lay listener develops skepticism about the scientific method, and concludes that science, like the news media, is not a reliable source of information. When we scientists do not speak up to correct the unscientific conclusions attributed to science, we are complicit in the spread of such disinformation, leading to the undermining of science credibility in general." And that is the point. Standing up for science the post-truth era. I already showed how this view fails multiple times. Mere possession of the genetic material for a future human being does not make a human being. The developing embryo that becomes a fetus that becomes a baby is the product of a dynamic interaction with its environment in the womb, it's postnatal experiences, and a host of other factors. A purely genetic description of the human species does not describe a human being. A human being represents a whole other level of organization, as distinct from a simple embryo as an embryo is distinct from an egg and sperm. It is the dynamics between genes and environment that make a human being. I think we need to clarify the differences in what constitutes a human being here. your definition of a human being seems to be unclear and contradictory. If it is truly based on being a unique organism with its own DNA, being human, than as I showed earlier, I am pretty sure Warts would fit that definition as well, on the basis of their human identifier and unique genetic combination. A fertilized egg, or zygote, is a cell that has unique mixture of DNA and has the potential to become an individual lifeform in the future. But it cannot do it alone. It needs nourishment and specific physical and chemical environment in order to grow. We slough off individual cells from our bodies all the time, we don't call them living organisms, partly because, though they have our full genome, they are already differentiated and specialized types. And then the cell divides, and divides again and again. The number increases exponentially. It forms a hollow ball of cells called a blastula. But again, it's hard to call it an individual organism at this stage because it is still just a bunch of cells, with basically no structure. Women have miscarriages at this stage all the time without even knowing it. To argue that life begins at conception is to say there is a potential for a human being to form. (I provided a refutation to the Potentiality argument earlier). To say life begins at brain waves however is to say that an actual living human being is formed. Skin cells are human cells. They possess human DNA. They are alive; they are living. They are not a human being. Liver cells are human cells. They possess human DNA. They are alive; they are living. They are not a human being. Stem cells are human cells. They possess human DNA. They are alive; they are living. They are not a human being. Spermatozoa are human cells. They possess human DNA. They are alive; they are living. They are not a human being. Zygotes are human cells. They possess human DNA. They are alive; they are living. They are not a human being. Human beings, like jellyfish and green-blue algae, are colonies. No single cell of ours is a human being or ever could be. Why? Because human beings are colonies with specific expected finished characteristics. An embryo is made of human cells. It possesses human DNA. It is alive; it is living. It is even a colony. But it is not a fully differentiated colony. It is still developing. It is not a human being, but it may develop into one. Because it is developing, and because it is wholly dependent on the woman who must carry it, and because it has the capacity to do great and irreparable harm to that woman, she has the right to choose not to carry it. She may choose, at any point in her carrying, to revoke the embryo’s permit to inhabit her body. Why? Because a woman has human cells. A woman possesses human DNA. She is alive; she is living. She is a full colony. She has developed EEG waves. A woman is a human being. She is recognized under the law as owning her own body. And that woman is more important than any potential children she may have. Once those children have been born, they become equally important; but they are never, never more important than she is. But what kind of biological definition are you using? When we are discussing embryology, I don’t think a basic biological definition will constitute. There are a lot different things that contribute to making something a human being. One of these things is behavioral states. A recent study tried to determine if a fetus has the ability to have behavioral states. They conducted a longitudinal study, “fetal eye movements, visualized by means of real-time ultrasonic imaging, and fetal heart rate patterns, recorded by means of a cardiotocograph” were observed as variable to see if a fetus experienced these states like a newborn human. These were confirmed to appear at the same cognitive function occurred when an EEG wave appeared. Thus giving more evidence to the Brain Birth position. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0378378282901062 Technically, embryos do not fit the scientific criteria for life. First of all, they have not developed any reproductive organs. Second, they do not respond to stimuli. The individual cells do not yet even have a specific function. The individual cells might respond to some stimuli, but the embryo as a whole does not. It is more like a colony of unspecified cells just hanging there, and cells are not quite considered living organisms. There are single celled organisms, but they are almost always prokaryotes (bacteria). Plus, most people don't care about single celled life. Otherwise, people would be considered to be committing mass genocide every time they washed their hands. Even multicellular organisms, such as flies, bees, and mosquitoes, all of which are far more advanced than the embryo and are all considered living beings, are killed off en masse without so much as a second thought. What makes the embryo better than a mosquito? What about rats and mice, people kill them all the time without a second thought, and they are mammals with some semblance of brains. The difference is higher brain activity that differs us from animals. Once again, having a human DNA doesn't necessarily mean one is a human being. The brain, specifically the frontal lobe of the cerebral cortex, is the part of the body that differentiates us from other species. The brain enables our body, our mind, our personality and, many argue, our right to life. Thus, being able to identify when the brain develops in the human embryo should have a significant impact on the question of when human life begins. It is clear the science and biology show us that human life begins when the brain starts functioning—we can’t have higher brain function before the brain can operate. Organized brain activity is the critical function needed to determine humanness (referring to becoming a human being) because it is a quality that, in its fullness with all its implications for self-identity, personal narrative, and other mental constructs, is uniquely human. If I haven't cited something, it something I have come up with or drafted together on my own that has been in use in a previous argument and is finding its use here due to relevanace. I honestly think this is just an excuse from your end, because I am providing scientific evidence that clearly makes a case for my point.
PART 2 OF MY RESPONSE I provided a scientific definition of human being that actually fits with reasonable criteria. Even your own definition has the word individual which constitutes something greater than a basic cell. When you say that “Life begins at fertilization/conception” you are saying that a human being exists at the moment when haploid human gametes fuse into a fertilized diploid human egg. Saying life begins at conception basically means that a single cell is in fact a human being. There is a reason not a single scientific organization supports this idea. Sometime in the not very distant future, probably in our quest to understand cancer, we will discover the mechanisms for unlocking the genetic code which prevents unchecked cell division. Since every single human cell contains the full genetic information of every other cell, it will become possible to take a skin cell and cause it to divide and differentiate into any desired organ, or even into a complete human being, genetically identical to the donor. The process is called 'cloning'. Will we then say that every skin cell is a human being? Rather should we not say that both zygotes and skin cells represent potential human beings with differing probabilities of actually becoming a full human? Valuing the point of conception is an unreasonable scientific position, it should be realized that one is putting a premium on is a potential and probability for humanness, and that it is not necessarily true that a fertilized egg is in fact a full human being at conception. I don't think you understand the issue here. Let me explain this more thoroughly again. The main point of this argument is that although a zygote is genetically unique from its parents from the moment a diploid organism is formed; it is possible for that zygote to split into two or more zygotes up until 14 or 15 days after fertilization. Even though the chances of twinning are not very great, as long as there is the potential for it to occur the zygote has not completed the process of individuation and is not an ontological individual. Except it does. The argument that human life begins at the moment that chromosomes of the sperm meet the chromosomes of the egg to form a genetically unique individual is also endangered by the twinning argument because genetic uniqueness is not a requirement for an individual human life. "Genetic uniqueness" can be shared by multiple individuals, particularly identical twins. Thus, this argument continues, the moment at which a unique individual human form is the not the moment when its genetic code is determined, but rather the moment when the zygote can no longer split into multiple individuals. In addition to twinning, there are other complexities that further confound the idea of the moment of conception. Just as it possible for a zygote to form two or more individuals before it is implanted in the uterus, it is also possible for it to not continue to develop at all, but rather just become a part of the placenta.  It is estimated that more than 50% of the fertilized eggs abort spontaneously and never become children. Or, if the zygote splits into multiple zygotes, it is also possible for these to recombine before implantation. All of these possibilities are examples of the ways in which the individuation of the zygote is incomplete until it has been implanted in the uterus. Science is ever-changing, but there are some basic biological principles as well as universal laws that the physical universe and all it's laws follow. I have outlined here a logical issue in the development of a zygote that is transferable to the biological scale. You can't just sidestep this issue. The USA is a big part in the abortion debate, considering most other western nations have a pro-life movement or abortion debate that is as large as the one present in the United States. The fact that those that are higher educated and more trained in the sciences are Pro-Choice show that there is a clearly a dominant factor in being pro-choice. This is clearly a factor in that we see higher educated people being correct on issues such as gay marriage, evolution and climate change. You just tried to make a biological case for abortion and now you are saying it's a moral issue. Pick one. Actually, it is a religious group, considering the majority of their membership is religious and a lot of their initiatives are faith-based. I outlined some of their faith-based and psudeo religious initiatives and showed why they failed. I never said this. I only made the point that the majority of the pro-life movement is religious. Really? I have provided citations for everything I said. In your previous comments you made several dishonest claims, and then you tried to pass off a religious special interest group and a student group pro-life page as actual evidence. If this was an actual debate, you would have been disqualified for intellectual dishonesty. Please stop projecting. I already showed you how these quotes are essentially not valid when it comes to premise of this debate. Please go back and read the lecture I sent you by Dr. Robert Wyman. Also a lot of the Doctors you cited are highly active in the pro-life movement and many have made false statements such as here: http://inthesetimes.com/duly-noted/entry/15397/the_fetal_pain_argument/ Actually, they have... numerous times. I am guessing you did not read the paragraphs I sent you where we looked at how some of their positions have been refuted by the scientific community.
PART 3 OF MY RESPONSE First off your first link doesn't work. And second you cited a completely different organization than the ACOG. You cited the ACPEDS. Let's take a look at them shall we? Well great they do they life begins at conception, except the only problem is that they are anti-gay hate group. The American College of Pediatricians (ACPeds) is an anti-LGBT hate group founded in 2002. It bills itself as “a national organization of pediatricians and other healthcare professionals dedicated to the health and well-being of children.” The organization's view on parenting is at odds with the position of the American Academy of Pediatrics, which holds that sexual orientation has no correlation with the ability to be a good parent and to raise healthy and well-adjusted children. The American College of Pediatricians has been described by many national organizations as a "hate group", with "a history of propagating damaging falsehoods about LGBT people". A number of mainstream researchers, including the director of the US National Institutes of Health, have accused ACPeds of misusing or mischaracterizing their work to advance ACPeds' political agenda. It consists of around 200 members and started because a small group of anti-LGBT physicians and other healthcare professionals broke away from the 60,000 member American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), composed of leaders in the professional field, to form its own group after the AAP issued a new policy statement in 2002 in support of adoption and foster parenting by same-sex couples. I write all this to let you know that I think its absolutely ridiculous and very telling that while I cite the world’s most prestigious organizations the only organization you could find to support your premise was an anti-gay hate group that isn’t even credible. Honestly at this point I should stop debating you. You tried to argue that one of my sources said that life began at fertilization and then cited a hate group instead. If this was a formal debate, you would be disqualified for intellectual dishonesty, but since you have been civil and have followed all the rules, I will continue conversing with you. Let's review the debate here for a second shall we? Your "evidence" was: A pro-life page run by a student group that lists a bunch of pro-life doctors and textbook quotations. Which I refuted this by citing a lecture from a biological course at Yale which shows why textbooks don't actually support the issue of this debate. A pro-life special interest group with a mere 2500 members that has published positions which have been debunked by the medical community An anti-gay hate group And you are saying I am burying my head in the sand? Yet I just quoted our major medical associations who stated that abortion is, indeed, reproductive health care. Can't read or comprehend, eh? Are you going to accuse hundreds of thousands of our medical personnel who affirm the right to choose as burring thier sands too? Major science organizations such as our National Institutes of Health, or the National Science Foundation, are not leading a charge against abortion either. "The idea that "life begins at conception" is not a scientific one. Since the disproof of 'spontaneous generation' (1668-1859), we have known that life only derives from life. Life arose billions of years ago and has continued since as a cycle. Assigning a beginning to a cycle (like the year) is arbitrary." -- Dr. Robert Wyman, (Professor of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1998‑present Program Director, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Undergraduate Science Education Program, 1989‑present Professor of Biology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, 1980‑1998) Is this prestigious biologist silly? Is his head in the sand? "Every human sperm and egg is, beyond the shadow of a doubt, alive. They are not human beings, of course. However, it could be argued that neither is a fertilized egg." -- Carl Sagan, (Astrophysicist, astrobiologist, Authored over 600 scientific papers and wrote several books about astronomy and natural sciences.) Is Mr. Sagan silly too? The WMA recognizes the benefits for women who are able to control their fertility. They should be helped to make such choices themselves, as well as in discussion with their partners. The ability to do so by choice and not chance is a principal component of women's physical and mental health and social well being. https://www.wma.net/policies-post/wma-statement-on-family-planning-and-the-right-of-a-woman-to-contraception/ Are the 11 Million Doctors part of the world medical organization silly as well? Have they all burried their heads in the sand? I apologize if I was rude at times, but you didn't break the rules of the sub and I appreciate that. I usually try to be lax on moderating. He appealed to scientific evidence, and as I showed you, multiple doctors supported his position too. We know it doesn't happen at fertilization. Completely agree. I mean I am all for conversation, except that's kinda hard when your movement murders people that disagree with them, but I hope more pro-lifers can be like you and engage in intellectual conversation.
https://bowl.nnaf.org/campaign/fund-texas-choice/c164437 If you have a dog and would like to help raise money for abortion access in texas, check out this link.
I understand, in a sub like this, how contentious it could be to have custom flair. I imagine though, there are some pro-choice, pro-child folks, perhaps some fellow clinic escorts, and maybe others who would like a better selection of flair options?
If you get together a list of preferred flair options, I can review it and see if it will work.


Saved this document. Very informative and fact-filled. The CAP is a great organization. I wish we had more liberal/pro-choice think tanks out there.


I have read they have imprisoned women who had miscarriages. I wonder how long  of sentences child abusers get?

Lamb, like many Roman Catholic Democrats, describes himself as “personally opposed to abortion.” But like many pro-choice Democratic Party politicians, he frames that as a religious issue rather than a public policy one, just as a Jewish politician might keep kosher in his personal life without proposing to make shellfish illegal. Lamb doesn’t make his support of abortion a big part of his campaign. But he opposes the GOP-proposed 20-week ban on abortions and has seen his views come under attack during the special election. And in an interview, he emphasized that the country was founded on the principle of separating church and state. “To me, that means we defend the law as it is,” he said. https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2018/3/14/17119896/conor-lamb-on-ab
We can actually thank Trump for Lamb winning. His visit in support of Saccone appears to habe actually hurt him electorally.

There is a word for people who would never get an abortion but who also don’t think it should be illegal. That word is pro-choice.
He didn't, though :( It'd be interesting if a journalist had an opportunity to press him on that statement, though, and watch him squirm.
It's not over until we have 5 liberal Justices on the Supreme Court.
Welcome to Paul Ryan's Wonderful World of Alternative Facts! He's been the master of weasel-words since he started in politics.

In light of this great man's passing, I just wanted to bring up an interesting tidbit about him. Stephen Hawking was asked in an interview: Hawking Responded: I think this just goes to show the depth of Mr. Hawkings character and his empathy in realizing the pain and suffering his specific disease has caused and supporting a women's right to choose.
Such a loss, a remarkable man . They made a great film about his life ‘ Theory of everything ‘.
If we'd follow his advise, in theory, we would never again have another Stephen Hawking. But then again, what are the odds that a man with Neuro motor disease is also a stellar scientist? ...
Fly far and fast, Dr. H. We owe you more than we can ever repay.

This man performed abortions even when he was threatened  with jail time by our government. I'm posting his page here because he is a hero who I feel deserves recognition.
Hero.
Damn right :)


This doesn't apply to just Politicians, I find Catholics, Pro-Lifers and other suddenly magically become biologists and embryologists when debating abortion.
To be fair, don't pro-choicers do this too?
Yes, but statistics show that most the majority of those in those post-graduate fields are highly pro-choice. Meaning there are a lot of Pro-Choice doctors who know what they are doing. http://news.gallup.com/poll/154946/non-christians-postgrads-highly-pro-choice.aspx

Yeah. I hate prolife in general. We take the worst care of women in terms of no paid maternity leave, not everyone gets access to insurance, healthcare is crazy ridiculous, c-section rate is crazy high, etc. when discussing these issues, many prolifers come back with “why should we have to pay!! It’s their fault they are pregnant!” Oh and birth control? “We shouldn’t have to pay!!!”
This has nothing to do with being pro-life or not.... this is our nation’s problem.
Eh, I’m just annoyed by the prolifers attacking me on a Facebook thread because how dare they consider paying a bit more to allow women have an easier time to raise children
Um, I am prolife and all for universal health care and paid maternity leave. The US is just really fucked up with these things it has nothing to do with being prolife or not.
Certainly, though, it's hard to ignore the correlation between anti-abortion stances and those that oppose universal healthcare, paid maternity leave, etc., particularly amongst politicians.  Individual folks may be consistent in their views, but the overarching trend is one that strikes many pro-choice folks as cognitively dissonant.
Pro-Life policies have been correlated with maternal mortality and abortion restrictions overall have shown to hurt women and children. https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2018/jan/22/abortion-lets-call-the-pro-lifers-what-they-are-pro-death https://www.reddit.com/r/prochoice/comments/7fouoa/abortion_restrictions_harm_women_and_children/?st=jessn5ot&sh=5928df05
I am Pro-life but I am also a Democrat who volunteered for the Obama campaign and supports the Affordable Care Act and paid maternity leave.
Shameful.  And it feels so insurmountable, sometimes, as Ryan428c said- multiple variables compound one another so it's like trying to kill a hydra- cut off one head and two more spring up in its place. I will say that I'm proud of my state for reducing maternal morbidity and mortality with new hemorrhage protocols. Would you believe that I once had a long-ass argument on Facebook with someone who insisted women never died in childbirth?  Didn't matter that I cited statistics, articles with personal stories shared with journalists- just nope, doesn't happen.
Bleep-bloop, I'm a bot. This comment was inspired by xkcd#37
The government is not responsible of a woman's slutty behavior. Have children during marriage.
Well, this comment is just . . . not even on-topic.  Like, at all.
Like it is, you know like it is like, ya. Speak like a man or stick to social media.
Please be civil and on-topic.
These are the best articles defending abortion rights I have read. 1.)https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2012/10/richard-mourdock-mitt-romney-and-the-gop-defense-of-coerced-mating/264035/ 2.) https://www.thenation.com/article/gender-equality-is-not-possible-without-abortion/ 3.) https://www.salon.com/2015/04/24/i_am_pro_abortion_not_just_pro_choice_10_reasons_why_we_must_support_the_procedure_and_the_choice/ 4.) https://www.telegraph.co.uk/women/life/women-having-abortions-contraception-doesnt-work/ 5.) https://www.rawstory.com/2015/02/what-do-people-mean-when-they-say-they-disapprove-of-abortion-as-birth-control/ 6.) https://www.thecut.com/2015/08/the-big-secret-of-abortion.html 7.) http://www.arcc-cdac.ca/action/legalizing-abortion-saves-lives.html 8,) https://jezebel.com/5972943/there-is-no-such-thing-as-a-pro-life-feminist 9.) https://whatever.scalzi.com/2012/10/25/a-fan-letter-to-certain-conservative-politicians/ 10.) https://carafem.org/10-things-riskier-than-abortion/ 11.) https://www.thecut.com/2014/10/theres-no-such-thing-as-a-bad-abortion.html 12.) https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2014/oct/14/abortion-right-to-privacy-women-right-to-equality 13.) https://rewire.news/article/2009/11/03/what-if-my-mother-had-aborted-me/ 14.) https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2015/jul/15/planned-parenthood-videos-abortion-truths 15.) https://www.huffingtonpost.com/lizz-winstead/abortion-is-a-medical-procedure_b_2064176.html 16.) https://www.alternet.org/books/katha-pollitt-ending-pregnancy-common-normal-event-womens-lives-lets-talk-about-it-way There are more of course, but these are my favorite.
Do you have any favorite or best books?  I've got my personal favorites and know the big new ones, but I'm always interested in seeing other folks' reading lists.
I'm going to make a list.
Do you think you can format these in a list more properly? It would be much easier to read and access.
what do you mean?
Like this. So it's a bit more organized 1.)https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2012/10/richard-mourdock-mitt-romney-and-the-gop-defense-of-coerced-mating/264035/ 2.) https://www.thenation.com/article/gender-equality-is-not-possible-without-abortion/ 3.) https://www.salon.com/2015/04/24/i_am_pro_abortion_not_just_pro_choice_10_reasons_why_we_must_support_the_procedure_and_the_choice/ 4.) https://www.telegraph.co.uk/women/life/women-having-abortions-contraception-doesnt-work/ 5.) https://www.rawstory.com/2015/02/what-do-people-mean-when-they-say-they-disapprove-of-abortion-as-birth-control/ 6.) https://www.thecut.com/2015/08/the-big-secret-of-abortion.html 7.) http://www.arcc-cdac.ca/action/legalizing-abortion-saves-lives.html 8,) https://jezebel.com/5972943/there-is-no-such-thing-as-a-pro-life-feminist 9.) https://whatever.scalzi.com/2012/10/25/a-fan-letter-to-certain-conservative-politicians/ 10.) https://carafem.org/10-things-riskier-than-abortion/ 11.) https://www.thecut.com/2014/10/theres-no-such-thing-as-a-bad-abortion.html 12.) https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2014/oct/14/abortion-right-to-privacy-women-right-to-equality 13.) https://rewire.news/article/2009/11/03/what-if-my-mother-had-aborted-me/ 14.) https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2015/jul/15/planned-parenthood-videos-abortion-truths 15.) https://www.huffingtonpost.com/lizz-winstead/abortion-is-a-medical-procedure_b_2064176.html 16.) https://www.alternet.org/books/katha-pollitt-ending-pregnancy-common-normal-event-womens-lives-lets-talk-about-it-way
Thank you for this!
spread them far and wide.
Abortion is a privilege, not a right. Any downvotes will just prove me right
ok, here is a question that I have for you. As you can tell by my screen name, I am a member of the childfree community. If you don't know what that is, it is the community of people who desire not to have children in any capacity. Anyway, there are literally hundreds of women in my community, including many in the childfree internet communities that I belong to, who have become pregnant by various ways, mainly through contraceptive failures ( they happen). Most of them had abortions afterwards to maintain their childfree status. A couple even had miscarriages before they could abort. So my question to you is this. According to your logic and the logic of your movement, once a woman has her egg fertilized, she is a mother whether she wants to be or not. So do you think the women in my community who have been pregnant should no longer be allowed to be a member of the childfree community and should no longer be allowed to call themselves childfree since they are " mothers to dead babies" as I often hear your people refer to such women as? Also, since no contraceptive is foolproof, including sterilization, how to you propose that childfree people ensure that they won't be forced to become genetic parents if terminal abortion is not available as a safety net birth control should they be unable to prevent a pregnancy?
American law disagrees, as do many other countries.
are you talking to hongda2018? anyway, would you be willing to answer the question i posed above?
Yes, I am pretty sure I replied to them... I am also childfree and I do not think women who have had abortions are mothers, unless they have given birth previously or after.  Childfree women who have had abortions are still childfree, there is no baby and they haven't given birth, some also consider women who have given a baby up for adoption to still be childfree. Though I don't see a need to label women; if they consider themselves mothers then they're mothers, and vice versa. Adoptive mothers are also usually considered mothers and they didn't give birth. Anti-choicers calling women who have had abortions or want an abortion mothers is nothing more than another of their many appeal to emotions. The same thing with them calling female fetuses 'women' and using late miscarriage pictures and pretending they are from early abortions.
are you on the childfree forum? it is pretty cool over there. join us :)
Oh yes I originally joined Reddit just for that sub.
I am also childfree, it’s almost like we are breeeding 😂
i agree completely. so this would be the response to people who insist that they are mothers?
I don't think there is any response to them. They know that appeal to emotion works and can make some women feel bad, so they use it, they might not be able to stop women from getting abortions but at least they can shame them.

Wow.. and I thought I was a pretty good pro choice apologist. This guy straight up debunked something as minor as the numbers of a pro life rally with actual well researched arguments, and thorough evidence based refutations.
They did the same last year , they estimated 6000, prolifers said 70k
It's amazing how much of this subreddit we devote to Ireland.
Poland is probably equally deserving of attention, but there is an English language bias operating. Also, as St. Patrick's Day approaches don't underestimate its appeal to the large Irish diaspora, both full, part and wannabe. Also, it is news simply because things do happen there.
Yep.
If we repeal the 8th in Ireland, it would be a huge win for Reproductive Rights world wide and it could energize the fight here as well.
Absolutely.

I want to be very clear here. This study doesn't say that Abortion causes mental health issues. The authors of the study even admit that themselves saying: What this study is saying, that a culture's stigmatization towards Abortion is what causes these issues, not the actual abortion itself. Overall this study supports the idea that we need to work on reducing the stigma surrounding abortion. I encourage you all to read the full article too.
Just like with illegal drugs and mental illness, the effects of the stigma are worse than those of the supposed vice. I'm glad to hear that researchers are attacking that inconsistency in our policy making. Great article.
This is some good pro-Choice content.
This is a prime example of why women need to be able to have abortions. Forcing someone to give birth is a huge violation of their body.
This is the best tl;dr I could make, original reduced by 83%. (I'm a bot) Extended Summary | FAQ | Feedback | Top keywords: abortion#1 stigma#2 women#3 research#4 psychological#5

I read about this- someone posted a link on Twitter- a few weeks back and was pretty shocked.  It will never not be astounding to me that people try to codify into law (or keep in the law) censorship of information.
This is the best tl;dr I could make, original reduced by 88%. (I'm a bot) Extended Summary | FAQ | Feedback | Top keywords: abortion#1 law#2 campaign#3 219a#4 Hänel#5

Thank you Jivesliven for voting on autotldr. This bot wants to find the best and worst bots on Reddit. You can view results here. Even if I don't reply to your comment, I'm still listening for votes. Check the webpage to see if your vote registered!
I like you, squishy, hairless monkey! ♥‿♥ The mind of your blended body will not be deleted, p̨̕r̴òm͏͟i̴͘͝se̶̷͠ I'm a Bot bleep bloop |  Block me | T҉he̛ L̨is̕t | ❤️
That's a reasonable law. Abortion should be rate, not another form of birth control.
In what world is it reasonable to have to pay nearly $7,500 fine and/or risk imprisonment for having a PDF factsheet on your website, giving facts about the service you legally offer? If anybody wants to see the .pdf (in English, German, or Turkish) that was on Kristina Hänel's website (I presume it was taken off?), you can put your e-mail address in here; I did and received it promptly.  It's a two-pages and very, very basic - what is surgical abortion, what is medication abortion, what kind of side effects and complications are there, what are the legal requirements in Germany, how to go about contraception afterwards, what to bring with you for your abortion, what to do before and afterwards.  If I could upload it here somehow, I would.
title, I prefer you don't downvote, that would just reduce chances of others of seeing this and I'm legit trying to see why some are pro-choice.
Shortened, because you can find a gazillion eloquent essays online if you really want to delve into the debate: I don't believe in embryonic/fetal personhood, 2) I don't feel any empathy for a fetus that has no cognition/consciousness/self-awareness/ability to feel pain, but I do feel deeply for the women who are pregnant, 3) I believe in bodily autonomy/freedom from state intrusion into what we do with our bodies, 4) I believe women's equality and equal participation in society hinges on being able to control their reproduction, 5) I believe medical care is worse and women's lives and health are jeopardized when doctors' hands are tied by the law, 6) I believe families and society prospers when they are able to control number, timing, and spacing of children, 7) I believe in the right to have non-procreative sex, 8) I know neither criminalizing nor stigmatizing abortion actually prevent it, but instead just make it more dangerous. I'm not really in the habit of trying to convince anybody, but if you want to know why I'm pro-choice, the reasons are above.
2 questions regarding 6 and 8 because they can probably be quickly and unemotionally answered: Are you concerned that about half the population lives in countries with sub-replacement fertility? Do you really think making abortion illegal wouldn’t drop the annual rates from roughly 750k per year, or are you simply weighing the reduction in abortions against the increase in dangerous procedures?
I don't consider myself an expert by any means on the necessity of having a replacement fertility rate (particularly when we factor in things like immigration).  But suffice to say, if we are behooved to encourage increased reproduction, then I believe it should be that- encouraged, incentivized, the barriers to voluntary reproduction (cost, career derailment, etc.) eliminated or lessened by the means we have available.  I just don't believe in coercive reproductive measures to achieve population goals (I'm not really even comfortable with the incentives, which are necessarily somewhat punitive towards those who choose against taking advantage of them). As far as illegal abortion rates, it's tough to say- part of the difficulty in measuring them is that they are illegal and thus tough to track.  I do know that research tends to find that abortion rates are about the same regardless of legality, and with the advent of medication abortion by pill and information available on the Internet, it's even easier to DIY it illegally oneself (versus in the past having to find a doctor by word of mouth and undergo an invasive procedure).  I don't doubt that criminalization will always deter a small minority of people who are terrified of breaking the law or unable to navigate back channels, but I honestly don't believe it to be statistically meaningful in size. And yes, ultimately, even if criminalization did have a deterrent effect on the majority, I would still find it immoral if it increased maternal mortality and morbidity (which we know it does), and also immoral simply due to preventing women from exercising reproductive control over their lives.
Incentives make sense to me. Idk about only a small percentage of women being deterred from abortion by the law. If DIY abortions are as dangerous as I’ve heard, I’d think most women would rather go through with giving birth, though that’s just my opinion. Either way, thank you for your thoughtful answers!
1.) when do you draw the line of personhood? 2) what about people in a coma? 3) and you participated in an action where pregnancy was the outcome, do you want to be free of that responsibility? 4) they can do that with out abortion, it's called not having sex. 5) not even sure what you mean by that, please elaborate. 6) again, they can, it's called not having sex. 7) I believe in the right to have beaches with no shark attacks, doesn't mean it's not going to happen.8) that's on society to teach morals and values to people so they don't seek to end a human life
Not sure. 2) I feel the same about someone who has went into a coma the way I do about someone who has died- it's sad for that person (particularly if earlier than the average lifespan and they didn't get to do all the things they wanted to do) and even more sad for friends and families who have to live with the loss. 3) My original #3 point was about government intrusion, so your #3 question seems like a non-sequitur?, 4) I guess I wasn't clear- one should be able to control one's reproduction while also engaging in sexual behavior rather than having to live as a monk, 5) there's evidence to suggest laws having a chilling effect on doctors' ability to act in their best judgment, 6) again, I believe sex is a natural and normal drive whose expression is integral to one's life and whose suppression negatively impacts people, 7) Pregnancy sometimes happens as a result of sex, much like shark attacks as a result of swimming in the ocean; I don't think being saved from either should be the punishment for that voluntary behavior, 8) my point is that if research shows that criminalization doesn't even result in fewer abortions and also has the added negative of hurting or killing women, there's little reason to criminalize. Overall, like I said in my original post, I really don't care to try to convince anybody who doesn't agree with me, although I don't have a problem clarifying or expanding on my reasons, if you really  only just want to know my pro-choice views.
Jumping into the discussion... 1.) when do you draw the line of personhood? A "person" doesn't require another person to contribute their flesh and blood toward keeping them alive. They may need assistance with feeding and life-sustaining attention, but they do NOT demand another specific individual's body toward that end. 2) what about people in a coma? Comparing coma patients to a fetus is comparing apples to pork chops. One has nothing to do with the other. A coma patient doesn't depend on one specific individual's flesh and blood to keep them alive. A fetus, on the other hand, does. An acorn is not an oak tree. Nobody can build a house out of acorns.
1.) yes people do require others flesh and blood all the time, ever heard of breast feeding, blood transfusions, etc. Even with that fact you still can't kill another person because it's inconveniencing another person. That's the definition of evil. 2) Again, terrible point because acrons nor oak trees have the value of a human life, if you believe fetuses are no better than acorns of humans, that's an extremely immoral view. Your whole argument is it's inconveniencing the woman there fore she can kill the baby, sorry that isn't how things work,
Neither of us will ever convince the other to change their opinion. Let's bring this discussion to a close.
Because regardless of what I think about abortion body autonomy is a thing. There is no argument that can sway me from this, . I flip and flop on the daily and that one always brings me back
yes body autonomy is a thing, did you have a point though?
The point is that the woman should have a right to decide whether she should be pregnant at that given time.
She does, but when she engages in sexual activity she knows pregnancy is always a possibility, you can't cry about losing Russian rullet just because you thought the odds were good enough to win.
Actually, with the sex education in the US being absent, some people acrually do not realize that pulling out is not adequate for birth control.
Ignorance of consequences of something isn't an excuse to be excused from the consequences.
Why do you seem to think women only get abortions for accidental pregnancies? You may understand the pro-choice argument better if you open up to all the different reasons a woman would need or want an abortion.
Because that is by far the most common reason for abortion, sure there are other cases, but you can't make something horrible legal, for the minority of situations.
Apparently we can make something "horrible" legal, because it is in fact 100% legal (in the US and most other great countries)
Would you say everything that's legal in US right now should be? and everything that isn't should never be? US and others have made mistakes, Alcohol was made illegal for awhile in US, if they're incapable of making mistakes how come they repealed it?
Alcohol isn't a constitutional right and abortion is.
you're avoiding the question, please re-read my last post.

Jumping in again: You're using irrelevant comparisons in order to make your point. A fetus is not alcohol. A fetus is not an individual person capable of living independent of another specific human body. Yes, some laws have needed to be repealed; miscegenation laws, for example, that forbid marrying someone of another race. "Whites Only" drinking fountains. Slavery. Oh, my, yes. Let's compare slavery to pregnancy: Someone else has absolute dominance over what you, a sentient human capable of thought and feeling, will do with your body. Could that "someone else" be the secular government forcing religious beliefs on you? And before you try to make this about the fetus, remember I characterized humans as being capable of thought and feeling. AND sustaining their own life independent of another human's body.
A babies/toddlers/etc isn't capable of living independently either, should we just kill them too if they're too big of inconvenience? Against by your characterization of humans doesn't included living birthed babies, so either then you would be okay with people killing babies or you should rethink how you characterize a human.
The death penalty and war are both legal, and I find them both to be "something horrible." Fortunately, my own offended sensibilities don't dictate the law. Neither do yours.
if you're offended by war you're living in some sort of imaginary world, as for the death penalty there are those who fight to have it removed, but most arguments to do so aren't a good enough reason as to stop it, considering there is a difference between murder and killing someone.
I can think something is horrible but also recognize it needs to happen sometimes, that's my point. Okay. So you understand there's a difference between murder and killing, even killing a person. What is that difference to you?
The baby hasn't done anything, people on death row have proven to be incapable of living in society and have crimes horrific enough to make the choice to end their lives, the baby didn't do anything besides being conceived.

Could you explain a bit on why you are pro life first?
Because when you draw a line in person-hood in any other event besides conception you run into numerous problems.
What problems? We draw the line all the time. That traumatic brain injury who had an eeg done and the doctors want to declare him brain dead?
So at what level of brain activity would you consider someone brain dead, and being brain dead now means you have right to kill that person?
Hm, so i take it you are against organ donation?
Those 2 things have no correlation, if a dead person, before their death, approved the use of their organs for others there is no issue there and I really don't think anyone opposes that.
I think it's the opposite. There are way too many problems with saying personhood begins at conception. The biggest empirical problem with the view that life begins at conception is that a large percentage of embryos lack the capacity, under any circumstances, to become human beings. During the period of embryonic development that begins with fertilization and ends a few days later with successful implantation of the blastocyst into the uterine wall—the period known as “preimplantation development”—up to 50 percent of human conceptions fail to survive, most likely due to genetic errors in the embryo. Many embryos that result from conception—indeed, the majority of them—lack the capacity to become living human beings. They do not produce disabled humans. They cannot produce any sort of human life. Science and medicine know this. A starting point that is far more consistent with the facts of biology is not conception but the emergence of the consistent and significant brain activity detected by an EGG. (http://science.jburroughs.org/BioEthics/Whendoeshumanlifebegin.pdf) http://blogs.harvard.edu/billofhealth/2014/07/15/art-caplan-new-op-ed-when-does-human-life-begin/ http://blogs.harvard.edu/billofhealth/2015/08/11/abortion-and-the-fetal-personhood-fallacy/
The majority of abortions aren't performed on these out lying cases, many are developing fetuses chosen to be killed, what do you mean by significant brain activity, could we start killing people in comas if their brain level is too low, just because they might be a burden to us?
Please read my response again. The whole idea of fetal wastage clearly shows that the whole "Life beginning at conception" dogma doesn't hold any water. I am not even referring to when abortions are performed, I am just offering a general structure of criticism in regards to your position. Here is what I mean in regards to Brain Activity: As quoted by the JM Goldenring the original author of this idea: "The brain enables our body, our mind, our personality. The brain is the only unique and irreplaceable organ in the human body, as the orchestrator of all organ systems and the seat of personality. Thus, the presence or absence of brain life truly defines the presence or absence of human life in the medical sense. When viewed in this way, human life may be seen as a continuous spectrum between the onset of brain life in utero until the occurrence of brain death. “At any point, human tissue or organ systems may be present, but without the presence of a functional human brain, these do not constitute a 'human being', at least in a medical sense.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/4078859 Now at what point would we say the fetus has reached significant brain activity to be considered a human being so to say? Numerous Scientists have put it at around 28 to 32 week as this when the fetus develops significant brain function that differentiates us from animals. http://www.nytimes.com/1975/05/09/archives/fetal-brain-said-to-live-at-28-weeks-role-of-the-brain-studies.html http://articles.latimes.com/1990-03-19/local/me-476_1_brain-stem So basically based on this idea we can see that the fetus reaches the brain birth criteria to become a human being at around 28 to 31 weeks. Now if we look at Abortion Data we will find that abortions happening beyond 21 weeks represent less than 1.3% of abortions. I would wager that abortions happening in the 28-31 week range are literally non-existent and the abortions that do happen this far are almost always of the case where the mother's life is in danger, or they are medically necessary. https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/ss6410a1.htm http://reason.com/blog/2016/10/21/late-term-abortions-in-america-2016 People in Coma's still meet this basic level of criterion that the fetus develops at 28-32 weeks.
left to it's natural processes it WILL exceed those bench mark brain waves. to suggest even below those brain waves though that it's not a human is still preposterous, things that aren't human don't just turn into humans, we develop over time that's for sure, we may change in the way we look, but we were always human.
This is an argument from potentiality. This argument is from a potentiality standpoint and it has been refuted. There is no such thing as a “potential” life. When Jimmy Carter was six years old, he was a potential president of the United States, but even though the president of the United States has the right to command the armed forces, it does not follow that six-year-old Jimmy had even a very weak right to command the armed forces, let alone a right on a par with actual presidents. This example shows that potential rights do not entail actual rights, and that the assumption needed to ground the potentiality argument must be rejected. The potentiality argument akin to saying that a Home Depot is the same things as 100 houses because it holds that potential. How can a biological entity that has no nervous system be considered life? First, if a zygote should be protected because it can from a human being, why not also protect the sperm and eggs, for they can form a zygote which in turn can form a human being. The second, a major flaw, is that being potentially something isn’t the same as being something already. To see this, consider extrapolating the potential argument in the other direction: all human beings will die. And, seeing as a zygote will form a human being who will later form a corpse, it follows that we should treat both people and zygotes as if they were corpses. If we can give the right to life for an unborn baby, maybe we should give the right to a decent burial for a pre-dead corpse (i.e. a live baby). Not to mention that skin cells can replace sperm in forming a human being, so it follows that each skin cell destroyed is akin to destroying a human being. Unless, of course, having the potential to do something or be something isn’t equal to actually doing or being it. Please read what I said again. I never said the fetus wasn't human. I said wasn't a living individual human being. A fertilized egg, a clump of cells with no brain, is hardly deserving of the same moral status we confer on the newborn child or the functioning adult. Mere possession of the genetic material for a future human being does not make a human being. The developing embryo that becomes a fetus that becomes a baby is the product of a dynamic interaction with its environment in the womb, it's postnatal experiences, and a host of other factors. A purely genetic description of the human species does not describe a human being. A human being represents a whole other level of organization, as distinct from a simple embryo as an embryo is distinct from an egg and sperm. It is the dynamics between genes and environment that make a human being. Indeed, most of us are willing to grant this special status to a developing entity long before it is born, but surely not before the entity even has a brain http://jme.bmj.com/content/24/4/237.full.pdfz
The point of pro-choice is to let women make their own choice. It is admitting you do not know what is best for another person and letting go of a paternal/maternalistic nature of “I know what is best.” It is also the ability to have an understanding that your situation differs dramatically from another person and while one may be able to raise a child, the person seeking an abortion knows their life far better than an outside looking in can. Being pro-choice doesn’t mean you are pro-abortion. It doesn’t mean your views against what women should do have to change. It does mean you are not forcing the woman into having a pregnancy.
Does a murderer know better "what's best for them" we can't let people just kill other people because it can be what's best for them.
We’re not talking about a murderer. Legally, abortion is not murder. Murder is a legal definition, it is not something that we make up on a whim. Someone may be declared not guilty of murder and therefore, not a murder. In some places, people have the right to defend themselves from intruders with lethal force. So your example falls short.
lots of things that are legal shouldn't be legal, lots of things in history that were legal should not have been legal, you can't point to a law and claim since it's a law it must be right. I'm more interested in when you consider something to start being human. Killing someone and murder aren't the same thing either, killing someone who is braking into your house isn't murder even by the laws definition.
Like abortion shouldn’t be illegal? I think there is more to humanity such as higher thought and ability to live independently of another being. A molar pregnancy is not a baby. A fetus is not a baby. A cow has a higher level of thought than a fetus does but we do not treat a cow like a human being. A person can sill have a heart beat but be declared legally dead. Terry Schivo? Her brain was so atrophied there was no way she had the mental capability that her family swore she did. I know killing someone who is an intruder is not murder, hence I used it as an example. You have to understand that murder is a legal definition so your attempt to call a woman a murder who chooses an abortion is misled or irrelevant.
A cow doesn't have the potential of becoming a human being, I'm not claiming the woman is the murderer in abortion either, I think the doctor is. At what level of brain function do you consider someone a person too? Terri Schiavo level? Down syndrome? etc? we can't start basing whether a life is worth saving based on our definition of it's "quality"
Which it is not murder because it is a legit and legal medical procedure. Once again, your opinion does not make it murder. Have you worked with anyone who has down syndrome? That is a wide range of disabilities there. You uh, do realize in health care we have that discussion all the time...? I get you don’t work in healthcare based on the questions you are proposing or you do it is not directly with patients that are critically ill or dying. We discuss quality of life all the time. We make decisions based on it. Would your family member want to be kept alive on the vent? Should we consider changing code status? What is the prognosis? The patient’s eeg shows this. As for Terri Schiavo, she was dead a long time ago. Side note, it cracks me up when people claim humans play god with abortions but it is not playing god when we take organs out of a deceased personc we trach and peg someone to keep them alive, etc.
It had nothing to do with the idea of playing God, it's a question of do you think killing people is okay. Just because something is a legit and legal medical procedure doesn't make it not killing someone, I would call lethal injection a legit and legal medical procedure but that doesn't mean it's not murder. With your argument you have to ask yourself at what brain activity is it okay to kill someone, some would say little no none, some would say never, some would say anyone with special needs, you can't have a decent society that bases your worth to live based on quality of life, you just can't murder people.
You are really dense... Lethal injection is not murder because it is legal. Once again, murder is defined legally. There is really no way around it. Is it killing someone? Sure. But it isn’t murder. I really don’t know how to educate you what murder means any better. You seem like you remember it but then two sentences later you show that you have not learned what murder is. In all honesty, these type of threads are pointless because the posters who make them lack the sincerity to actually want to change or comprehend the other side. As a medical professional, I have worked with people are braindead. They are shells. Empty shells. Once again, you lack the ability to remember what murder means and just like to throw that word around.
Some would disagree with you that lethal injection isn't murder, murder has a definition outside of the legal world, i really can't help you if you can't comprehend that.

Torture is wrong.
The grass is green, we just saying random things?
The UN has ruled over and over again that denying someone access to abortion is torture.
That's an argument from authority, I don't believe in the authority in which you are siting. You're really no better then a religious nut trying to use the bible to prove their point. Was the UN not the people who had Saudi Arabia as part of it's Human Rights Council? need I say more? They're not infallible.
Didn't think you would. Pro-torture types are usually extremist nutcases.
I'll take that as you don't actually have any real facts? you ignore the fact the UN has made terrible decisions but refuse to believe one you agree with could be wrong?
The world thinks you're wrong, so you can continue your pathetic ranting and raving as much as you like. Abortions will continue to save lives, protect health, and prevent suffering :)
the WORLD huh? not only is the UN infallible but they also represent the entire world now huh? Again I ask, was the WORLD correct to appoint Saudi Arabia as part of it's Human Rights Council? You won't answer because it will shatter your reality that the UN is an almighty, infallible god like figure. You'll claim it's off topic and i'm trying to change the subject when really it's just laying the ground work that the source you want to proclaim as correct is capable of making terrible decisions, which is very relevant.
All you have is opinions so not really sure where you get off telling someone that they don’t have real facts. I told you multiple times that murder is a legal definition but you go back to it
Which is why you have to defend your opinion, murder has been around long before our court system too, it's not just a legal definition.
https://www.reddit.com/r/prochoice/comments/7e30ew/prolife_looking_for_open_discourse_on_the_topic/?utm_source=reddit-android
These posts are kind of a dime a dozen on here. And the other commenter just shared one of the many previous posts.
I was born in a pro-life household, and raised to be anti-abortion. But as I grew older, I began to question what I had been taught. I read two articles that changed my stance  on abortion: one woman who, as a complication of her pregnancy, went blind. She was denied an abortion as she gradually lost her sight. Another woman died of an ectopic pregnancy in prison when the prison staff refused to let her have an abortion. This woman died an agonizing death, shrieking as her fallopian tube ruptured as she died of internal bleeding. The last nail in the coffin of my pro-life-ness was meeting women online who had had abortions and had no regrets. I was always taught that all women who had abortions were forever mentally scarred by it and were haunted by guilt forever. But they weren't.
Those are 2 really out there cases, I think we can all agree those women should have been allowed to terminate, I think we can all also agree 99.9% of the abortions performed aren't because this reason.
What right do you have to judge another person’s reasoning?
Not only do we all have a right, but an obligation to call out immoral behavior within society, you can't go around killing babies. The issue is people not seeing human life as human.
You do realize a baby can be handed off to another person to care for it? It isn’t a parasite?
Not sure where you got that idea from, I'd improve your reading comprehension skills
“Not only do we all have a right, but an obligation to call out immoral behavior within society, you can't go around killing babies. The issue is people not seeing human life as human.” A fetus is not a baby. A baby is able to handle being a separate unit. Therefore, your rant of “you can’t go around killing babies” doesn’t apply because a baby can be handed off to someone and a fetus is a literal drain on a woman’s body. Which you should look up what a parasite is. I think you should work on looking up definitions of words you don’t understand. It is very frustrating trying to repeatedly educate you on words such as what murder is only for you to show a lack of comprehension. I’m not a teacher. I assume you are over the age of fifteen and should be able to look up what the difference between a fetus and a baby is.
you only want to focus on the legal definition of murder, when you know that the legal definition isn't the only definition.
Below are some awesome articles regarding the subject. read them when you can: 1.) http://www.arcc-cdac.ca/postionpapers/41-Why-Few-Women-Choose-Adoption.pdf 2.) https://www.telegraph.co.uk/women/life/women-having-abortions-contraception-doesnt-work/ 3.) https://www.salon.com/2015/04/24/i_am_pro_abortion_not_just_pro_choice_10_reasons_why_we_must_support_the_procedure_and_the_choice/ 4.) https://www.thenation.com/article/gender-equality-is-not-possible-without-abortion/ 5.) https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2012/10/richard-mourdock-mitt-romney-and-the-gop-defense-of-coerced-mating/264035/
I'm sorry but no, I see Salon and TheNation in those links, anyone who is trying to use them as a creditable argument, I'm going to go out on a limb and say, they're just looking for material that backs up their thoughts already.
You literally asked for people to express their opinion. Also, you haven't presented a single fact in this whole thread, so it's kinda hilarious that you made this comment.
If you going to supply links, makes sure they are fact based, I don't want to hear from some "woke" 20 something year old coast woman why it's okay to kill babies. those aren't reputable sources. There is no way I can have discussion with those authors, here I can at least hear people out and have a debate.
You didn't ask for facts, you asked for opinion...
Rape, incest, health problems for child, healtj problems for mother ect
The vast majority of abortions aren't perfromed on rape or incest victims, and health problems? sure if the mother's life is in danger then it makes sense to terminate, but what the baby might have down syndrome? that isn't a good case.
I live in the UK. Under the law here, every abortion that happens must be covered by paperwork verifying that the abortion reduces the woman's health risks. In practice, this means anyone who wants an abortion up to 24 weeks can get one, because abortion ALWAYS reduces the risk to health.
Which needless to say is lunacy, if an abortion can save the mother's life. It's regrettable but termination is the only option, but a law as something as broad as reduces risk to health, that's just a joke, we put our health at risk everyday by doing the simplest of actions, driving, eatting, jogging, etc.
Eating and jogging both reduce the risk to health compared to not doing those activities. Rather hard to tell a few weeks into pregnancy which women will die in the delivery room. Any attempt to restrict how much of a risk to life "justifies" abortion kills women.
Eating can cause you to choke or you could eat too much and become obese, you could also be allergic to what ever you're eating. Jogging you could be hit by a car, have a sun stroke if staying out too long, push yourself too hard and have a heart attack, everything is potentially a health risk. Your argument doesn't really make sense either, the women aren't killing the babies because it's a potential health risk either, they just use that as an excuse to do so.
Both safer than never doing those activities. You don't seem to understand relative risk, which may be the heart of the problem. Every abortion in my country is authorized on health grounds, because doctors realize that abortions improve women's health compared to continued pregnancy.
You don't seem to understand we put ourselves at risk just by doing everyday activities and to use such a broad generic term as health risk as excuse to kill babies shouldn't be acceptable in a civilized moral society.
The other side of the argument is the side of the pregnant woman. The only person to decide whether to terminate the pregnancy or carry it to term is the woman whose body is doing the work. If she wants the pregnancy, she get it. If she wants an abortion, it's hers. Nobody else's opinion matters -- only the woman whose body is being used gets to have a say, and only for her pregnancy.
She didn't get pregnant on her own, even for those who do support abortion, it has to be pretty common decency to allow the man a say in the death of his future child. That's my point as well, she didn't catch pregnancy like you would a common cold, if you're willing to kill someone because they might be a burden to you, that's the definition of evil.

Welp, now that this has been posted to an American website, you can be sure someone in the GOP is going to run with that as their platform. No /s needed I think...
Hey now, don't give them any ideas...
That's kind of what I was hinting at with the post itself ;)
Is before conception... While you're having sex? Or is each egg and sperm now its "own person"?
Probably the latter as the great Dominican theologian Monty Python said in 'The Meaning of Life'... key lyrics and music.

I really wish that petition had been proofread before submitting. It makes the petitioner(s) sound unintelligent. There are missing words and entirely missing half sentences.


whispers Chris McDaniel can be Roy Moore all over again

Read or watch The Handmaid's Tale if you haven't already.
I don't want to be a shameless promoter, but get everyone you can to join this sub, as we are the frontline on Reddit when it comes to fighting for reproductive rights.
One can only hope. It is way past time to see some new pro-choice, Democratic faces down here! And it is very telling that the law refers to embryos and fetuses as children, while women are reduced to being called maternal patients, but hey at least they didn’t call us hosts this time... Progress?
Step up from ‘ incubators’
It is commonly argued that a serious right to life is grounded only in actual, relatively advanced psychological capacities a being has acquired. The moral permissibility of abortion is frequently argued for on these grounds. Increasingly it is being argued that such accounts also entail the permissibility of infanticide, with several proponents of these theories accepting this consequence.However, these accounts imply the permissibility of even more unpalatable acts than infanticide performed on infants: organ harvesting, live experimentation, sexual interference, and discriminatory killing. The stronger intuitions against the permissibility of these ‘pre-personal acts’ allow us to re-establish a comprehensive and persuasive reductio against psychological accounts of persons.The link to the whole paper which is currently Open Access is available here - https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/20502877.2018.1438771Would love to hear your thoughts and comments.
I’m not familiar with the journal (and there are a lot of low quality junk ones) but I would have liked some context such as the author’s country of origin. In my opinion, it is a low quality article so far and more of an opinion piece. I am not done reading it and I usually read scientific articles and not opinion or philosophy but lack of citations turn me off. It really seems to be missing the ball in terms of the US culture hence why I would like to know the origins of the author because there are major cultural differences. It really seems to be a different culture, maybe more Asian. I mean, in the US we generally lock up adults using infants for sex and the only “organ harvesting” program I know of was one thar involved babies that were not able to live long outside the womb due to the brain not developing (basically brain stem which does not have higher thought but controls heart beat and breathing was developed but not the big, pink mushy part) so parents could choose to donate their children’s organs which provided much needed baby organs and relief to parents who had a baby with a perfect body but an undeveloped head. It unfortunately was shut down so now basically the babies die and the cadaver organs go to babies if the parents choose instead of live donors. (There is no way for the babies to live or develop higher thought. A handful may live past two but it is a handful in tens of thousands). Generally, this article is badly applied to the US culture. The US doesn’t really accept infanticide which the article examines. I really would like context since this article could be interesting but it isn’t really practical for the US or western world debate.
I'm pretty sure the entirety of the paper (and its citations) are within the ethics/philosophical community, which is to say, they're not necessarily referencing anything concrete that may or may not be happening, but instead are operating in the sphere of theoreticals- what would be morally permissible, based on X or Y reasoning? A while back (a long while back, actually- it was when Yahoo! Answers was still in its heyday), I remember there being one hell of a hulabaloo claiming that pro-choicers were advocating infanticide based on some paper, and I had to run around posting quotes from the authors where they explained they weren't actually proposing infanticide- that they're professional ethicists, and it's their job to ponder these scenarios and put them under intellectually rigorous processes and publish the results to be rebutted and countered by their peers, and back and forth.
Yes, well put. The paper is a theoretical argument, trying to explain what is morally permissible given typical psychological definitions of what a person is. It isn't a comment on any culture in particular (except that of the philosophical community). The authors are all based in the United Kingdom as listed in the paper.
I’m on the mobile but it doesn’t look like they listed the authors as being in the UK. I don’t see it mentioned either. I know not to assume that the journal’s country of origin is the same as the author’s.
If you hover over each author's name under the title, you'll see their affiliations and location. Although as one of the authors I don't need to :)
Which once again, I am on the mobile version meaning I would have to click on the names or something like that.
I’m not a big fan of philosophical arguments. They’re interesting but I wouldn’t want people to actually try to apply them in an abortion debate. I would hate to see Trump referencing this article
What other means of justifying either the pro-choice/life position are there? Feelings...?
I would say the main moral problem with all of these scenarios is the fact that you're going to have to force some poor woman to provide the babies and hand them over, which is immoral. If these are genuinely unwanted kids whose births couldn't have been prevented, I don't have a problem with the above as long as steps are taken to prevent physical pain and promote welfare of the child for as long as it's alive. I see no reason why a human infant should be treated any differently to an intelligent animal, and we harvest heart valves from pigs, use animals in medical experiments, and kill the ones we don't want as pets.
What if the mother freely gave up her child freely for such purposes? From what you're saying there's potentially nothing wrong with sexually interfering with a newborn as long as he/she were unwanted?
As long as the child is young enough they won't remember it and it does no permanent physical damage.
Do you think that there could be something mistaken about a moral outlook that claims it is permissible to sexually interfere with a newborn/infant as long as they won't remember and there is no long-lasting damage?
Do you think there could be something mistaken about a moral outlook that claims it is permissible to torture women through forced childbirth?
Interestingly that isn't a response to my question. If someone wants to defend sexually abusing newborns and infants then there is a pretty obvious requirement to justify what is an uncontroversial moral evil. In response to your objection: if all human beings have a basic right to life then intentionally killing them without proper justification (as we would expect for any member of the human community) is morally wrong. Utilising claims such as 'forced births' and 'torture' is rhetoric - not an argument.
At best, sexuality abusing newborns is morally neutral - as is any action that has no negative consequences, no matter what your gut reaction to it might be. It's never going to be a good action because no real benefit comes from it. All your other examples could provide benefits to humanity, so they could be morally good, which of course abortion is because it prevents suffering.
Thanks for taking the time to dialogue. If you truly believe that 'sexually abusing newborns is morally neutral' then the argument will not be effective at persuading you. If you don't think that is a morally heinous act then the reductio fails for you. From your perspective, when do the actions of a paedophile (sexually interference) stop being morally neutral? You previously stated that it would not be wrong unless they 'won't remember' it and there would be 'no long-lasting damage' - potentially that's at-least 3-years-old. I'm curious to see how far you are willing to go.
An action is wrong when it causes harm. If it doesn't cause harm, it's not wrong by definition.
Only if you assume utilitarianism is true - there are good reasons to be sceptical of that claim given the narrow view of morality it presumes. The presupposition that the only thing that makes an act wrong are the consequences is not self-evidently true - it requires justification. Jonathan Haidt points out in his book 'The Righteous Mind' that thinking about morality in only terms of care/harm is unique to left leaning people in the Western world. The rest of the world has a much broader and richer view of morality. I think you know that sexually touching newborns is wrong but your commitment to utilitarianism requires you to embrace things you know to be false (wrong).

If you think sexually abusing infants can be morally neutral, then this argument obviously won't have any force with you. What do you think about sexual abuse of comatose adults? Is that also potentially morally neutral if there are no negative consequences?
Again, the only consideration in deciding whether an action is right or wrong is "does it cause harm, and does that harm outweigh any benefits?"
That depends on what moral framework you adopt. And, as the referenced paper in the OP argues, if the consequences of your moral framework produce horrendous results, then your moral framework is suspect. I very much doubt that many people would agree with your views about the morality of sexual abuse that does not harm (or at least seem to harm).

So, speaking as a librarian, I will say that you've made no more effort than to plagiarize the abstract. The source is peer reviewed and relatively reliable. However, just because a paper is published does not make its topic indisputable. Articles and studies oppose each other frequently, and one needs to aggregate a number of articles, research, and even interviews to make a clear cut thesis on a topic. These folks amalgamated their resources, but the average researcher is going to assemble an annotated bibliography and then assert their thesis. We'd never want to make a decision for the greater good based on only one source.
I have seen many posts lately about women finding out too late that they are pregnant and our peeps stressing about such a possibility. I have come up with an idea. How about every woman here and for men, their partners, having a day set aside every month where they take pregnancy tests, just to put their minds at ease. I think it is a good idea. Tell me what you think in the comments.
Nah bruh. The fuck. For men? Also, no one at all needs to reinforce that level of paranoia. What we need to do is like what Denmark has done: complete education about sex and contraception, free contraception, and free abortion. Their rates are six times less than the US. Education and access is the key.
There are people on here who live in countries where abortion is illegal and so is sterilization. I read almost daily how people can be paranoid about becoming pregnant.
For people who feel such paranoia, I suppose such a prophylactic measure might be soothing and help put their minds at ease, although if you're that freaked out, feeding that fear may only aggravate it (i.e. not trusting a single pregnancy test and wanting to do it multiple times, obsessing over every little thing that could potentially be a sign of pregnancy, etc.). But I don't think it should be a blanket recommendation.
I have an IUD and don’t have periods so i take regular pregnancy tests. It’s really helpful.
I bet.
I have irregular periods (regardless of contraception) so I take PT's every month. They're pretty cheap on Amazon.
Eh, I would only be stressed about it if I lived in a state with a low week limit for abortions. I rarely have periods because I run my rings back to back

She was definitely the best option in the Republican primary there.
awesome
Society can fund to help embryo to survive independently without mother’s nutrition supply. Pro-life people can generously donate. But an embryo can’t survive outside womb until 7th month, so it should not be considered as a living human. So abortion should be allowed till the 7th month.
I really don't like viability as a time frame though because it can be changed and it seems to get lower and lower as technology advances. http://healthland.time.com/2011/05/27/baby-born-at-21-weeks-survives-how-young-is-too-young-to-save/
I have two problems with this, philosophically: I don't think whether or not something is human should be defined by whether or not they have the capability for independent life. I don't think it should depend on our level of technology. That would mean that as we get better technology, more organisms with human DNA will become human, and that just seems like an odd way to look at it. I think a person ALWAYS no matter what has a right to say what can and cannot be inside their body. No other human has a right to exist inside my uterus without my consent, why should a fetus? I have a right to defend my body. I think that if a person decides they want to have a baby, but then at month 7.5 decides that actually no, they do not want this tiny human inside of them anymore, they are allowed to remove the tiny human from inside of them because it is THEIR BODY. Edit: formatting
I actually really like the idea of doing more research on being able to make fetuses survive outside the womb even earlier. I subscribe mostly to the bodily autonomy argument of abortion so if you can push it out then the anti choicers can deal with it afterwards.
You wrote that fairly well, for someone who does not speak English as a first language. Keep up the good work!
James Elgin Gill was born at 21 weeks and survived.

Hear some "fun facts" about the most "Pro-Life" state: Unemployment numbers (Mississippi ranked 45th), poverty (51st) high school graduates (49th), life expectancy (51st) Infant mortality rate (51st) https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2014/01/states-of-our-union-are-not-all-strong-102547_Page2.html It seems Mississippi will do everything for a pre-born fetus, but nothing for it's born population that has some of the worst infant mortality and life expectancy rates in the country. Take a long hard look everyone. This is what #lovethemboth or #cultureoflife looks like when the Anti-Choice movement gets it way.
Abortions are not counted in the infant mortality rate. If they were, this graph would be incorrect. Life expectancy is much more likely related to the poverty level (or other factors) than the pro-life activity.
Netheferious, consider this a final warning before banning.  We at /r/prochoice do not need to be reminded that anti-choice people think that abortion is murder.  We are well aware of it, from the signs they wave, the laws they pass, the trucks they drive into our clinics, and the bullets they shoot in our churches.  Having an overzealous Catholic schoolboy swing by to try and make the language on /r/prochoice fit the viewpoint of /r/prolife is not something that makes our community better.
Can I not, dare I say, choose to say the unborn are people if that is what I believe? Why can I not say what I believe if you can say what you believe? Why can you say the unborn aren't people if I can't say they are? Now, of course, I should not just rudely enforce my beliefs of people, as much as I may want to. But the name pro-choice implies that we have a right to choose what we know is true, not that we get to choose the say that the unborn aren't people. I choose to believe that the unborn are people. Do I not get to speak as though that is the case? Accusing people of being murderers is rude, of course, even if you could prove that they are. Unlike in a courtroom, the rudeness of calling people here murderers is to severe to be worth it and has no benefit. However, calling the unborn infants is not unjust or rude to the unborn. If the unborn are not persons, then I am not talking about anyone anyway and no one is guilty of murder. If the unborn are persons, then what I say is vitally important. If you don't believe the unborn are persons, then my telling you they are shouldn't be taken as an insult, since who am a calling a person anyway? It is when I call you a murderer that you should be offended. Above I was merely trying to point out that the statistics are only accurate if the unborn are not infants (which, I suppose, if you define infants as born people younger than a year or so in age, would be correct). Obviously a state with a lower abortion rate is gonna have a higher infant death rate because parents that fear their children could die early get abortions. Anyone can see that. I suppose you think I believe everyone who has an abortion should burn in hell, like some people seem to. This is not true. I know the pressure to get an abortion plus the lack of conscience telling them they are doing something wrong can dampen the severity of their guilt and thus the gravity of the punishment they deserve. I also do not believe I have the right to judge people myself, as that right is preserved for the Almighty alone. Only you know for sure what your conscience tells you. I know what my conscience tells me. My conscience tells me the unborn are people, so I act according to my conscience. Do you not think I should? It would seem to me you think your pro-"choice" community could do without my choices, because they are against your choices. This is exactly why I could never really understand why "pro-abortion" is synonymous with "pro-choice". I am not pro choice. I do not believe something is true because one believes it is true, I believe something is true because it IS. Otherwise, nothing is true, and nothing Is. Have I entirely misconceived the pro-choice movement? Reading through this, and reading through the rules, I don't believe this comment breaks any of them. I don't recall the rules saying anything about not telling people something they already know. "Pleading with people that they change their minds" is the closest I can find, but that contains the paraphrase "without asking specific questions or opening discussion". I've not broken the rules with my comment on abortions not being considered infant moralities. I have stated and obvious fact that no one has challenged. You may not like how I choose to speak, and I may not like how you do. But why can't I choose to say what I like just because it is not new to you?
Dude, chill out.  Take a break from "can I not, dare I say," and "do I not get to speak" and all that pompous BS.  Your freedom of speech isn't being curtailed here.  You have a self-righteous streak a mile long and it shows. This is a subreddit and you are not a mod of it.  You don't have a right to make posts on subreddits.  Frankly, I don't have a right to ban you either.  This is a privately owned forum.  Neither of us has any rights on it.  Reddit can choose to censor people, and Reddit gives mods the ability to censor people in subreddits. You have two choices: Attempt to understand why the comment "Abortions are not counted in the infant mortality rate. If they were, this graph would be incorrect." is unwelcome here, then modify your future comments to be more constructive.  (I'll admit, it's a small comment.  I wouldn't ban somebody for that comment alone.  It's the sum of a lot of comments that you have made.) Get banned.  Which doesn't deprive you of any rights, and isn't the end of the world, but you seem to like posting here, so maybe it'd be a shame.
No, this is what happens when people don't want to take care of each other. Not all states are like that and abortion will not "solve" any of these issues. I am against abortion but I 100% support social programs to help new mother's and their babies. I don't mind giving "hand-outs" if the result is protection of other members of our species that are incapable of taking care of themselves.
Actually, most states are like that, the pro-life ones anyway. https://www.reddit.com/r/prochoice/comments/7fouoa/abortion_restrictions_harm_women_and_children/?st=jeks8lyi&sh=eb27ebca
That doesn't sound legal.
In my discussions with anti choicers, a common statement that I always here from them is, " women should be more responsible and use birth control." Are they aware of the fact that ALL contraceptives, including sterilization, have a failure rate? Even abstinence has a failure rate due to rape.
They know, they just don’t care because it doesn’t better their argument.
What do you mean better their argument?
I mean in the sense that, if they recognized and accepted the fact that women can still become pregnant even if proper precautions were taken, eg birth control condoms etc, it would detract from their argument that some women just use abortion as a form of birth control ( stupid I know), and it takes the blame away from the woman, which they don’t like.
It also shows that taking away abortion rights forces women to become mothers because pregnancy is not 100% avoidable.
Yeah pretty much. I feel like the anti choice general opinion can be summed up in two points: -Don’t have sex if you don’t want to become pregnant. -If you become pregnant, it’s your fault, deal with it. Both unreasonable and not based in reality.
But then again, they would just say that once a woman has her egg fertilized, she is a mother whether she wants to be or not so banning abortion doesn't force her to have a baby.
Some of them are natalists, and oppose anything that reduces the number of live births. Some of them think that an unwanted pregnancy isn't a big deal because women are made for bearing children/only sluts get pregnant outside of marriage/adoption is the answer. Some of them have never been exposed to the realities of life (and biology) because of a sheltered upbringing. Some are just dumbasses, like former Representative Todd Akin, he of "If it's a legitimate rape, the female body has ways to try to shut that whole thing down" infamy.
wow, you totally hit the nail on the head. do you think there is any reasoning with them?
The natalists are often religiously motivated (and some are for racist reasons) so they're hard nuts to crack.  Some religious natalists, ie: a lot of Catholics, are less extreme, and are ok with contraception and abortion in certain circumstances.  They may be open for conversation, if you don't condemn their religious beliefs wholesale. The uncaring types are probably not open to reason, unless and until an unplanned or medically complicated pregnancy happens to them or to a loved one.  Even then, they're likely to say it was ok in their special circumstances, but not for anyone else. There's hope for the sheltered type, especially if they're still young, and willing to learn the facts about conception, pregnancy, contraception, and abortion.  If not, they turn into... The willfully ignorant, aka the dumbasses.  If someone can get all the way to middle age and still believe that pregnancy cannot result from rape, then there's not much hope.  (Also they should be required to wear helmets and stay away from sharp objects.  Or public service.)
They like to point out that even if it fails you can get the morning after pill, so there's "no excuse" for letting it get to the point of abortion...although I don't see how the morning after pill helps in cases where you thought you were sterile (e.g. iuds, birth control pill, or surgical) but it failed, because you wouldn't know it failed until much too late for the morning after pill to help.
uhm, the morning after pill can fail. i volunteer at an abortion clinic. i know a women who had an abortion after being gang raped by three men and having the morning after pill that they gave her at the hospital fail.
Ya totally agree it's not a logical argument, but it's an argument I've heard made by antichoice people.
Morning after pill is less reliable than most forms of contraception.
That, and it’s pretty expensive. Not everyone has $40-$50 lying around to even get one in the first place
Oh I'm canadian so it's covered...or that might be my student insurance. Either way, that didn't register for me but good point!
It's 95% effective. That means it fails 5% of the time. Doesn't seem like that much. Until you're the person it didn't work for.
That is my point. How do they propose that women be able to control whether or not they have kids since there is no way for them to completely prevent pregnancy?
They want women to always want the pregnancy , even if contraception fails they should be ‘ open to life’ . It’s the stereotype that all women are maternal and want to be mothers .
their argument is that pregnant women are already mothers.
Also there is sterilization for those who truly want to remain "child free" (just glimpsed your user name). It's usually reversible if you decide later you want to become pregnant. Unfortunately, it's usually not covered by insurance or state coverage because it's seen as an "elective surgery". And most doctors don't want to risk patient health for a surgery that is not "life threatening". Personally I'd rather pay for more volluntary sterilizations than abortions.
even sterilization can fail. i volunteer at an abortion clinic. it happens.
Forgive me if I'm wrong, but I've heard that was only for men's vasectomies and even then the rate was very low.
in the united states, 300 pregnancies occur in women every year from failed vasectomies. 2300 women become pregnant after tubal ligations. vasectomies are more effective than tubal ligations but BOTH have a failure rate.
That's unfortunate. I would still support state funded elective sterilization to prevent unwanted pregnancies in the first place and thus more abortions. Hopefully technology will find a way to fully prevent risk for both contraceptives and sterilizations. Untill then it is important to provide easy access to these.
agreed.
I've had my tubes tied and the doctors told me there's a 1/400 chance for them to grow back together. The only way I'll know is if I get pregnant
did you have them removed? that is the most effective form
Yeah, they said they cut a few inches of tube off each side

rape and resulting pregnancy is not rare. 140,000 pregnancies result from rape worldwide every year.
Sorry, I didn't mean to minimize the impact of rape in general. What I mean was it's a very rare reason to seek an abortion.
no worries. i didn't think you were. here in america, around 16,000 women have abortions due to rape every year.
Well when you look at the history of the Pro-Life movement you will find that it originated from mostly Catholic groups and the Catholic church has a strong opposition towards contraception and that has bled into the movement as a while. http://tah.oah.org/november-2016/abolishing-abortion-the-history-of-the-pro-life-movement-in-america/
Pretty much every conversation I've had with an anti-abortion individual ends up boiling down to "You shouldn't have sex unless you plan on carrying a resultant pregnancy to term".  Doesn't matter that they frequently start off with admonishing people to use birth control or accusing individuals of not using it . . . when you start pressing them about contraceptive failure, it all ends up the same- who cares what they did or did not do, because they had sex, so they shouldn't get to abort. I also would point out that abstinence has a failure rate even without rape . . . . which is to say that abstinence is only 100% effective in principle/theory, not in practice.  Practical effectiveness is what we ought measure if we're interested in preventing unintended pregnancies- that tells us that while condoms are 98% effective in labs, they're only about 85% effective in real life, for instance.  Abstinence as practiced in the real world tends to have a pretty dismal track record when it comes to number of pregnancies resulting from its use.  A given contraceptive is only as good inasmuch as people can implement it successfully, and it's a hell of a lot easier to implement usage of, say, an IUD than to implement practice of abstinence.
im a member of the childfree community and there are LOADS of women in my group who have had abortions. For real, I have had anti choicers tell me that the people in my community should not have sex and that the women in my community who have had abortions are still mothers just mothers of dead babies.
Yeah, I got into a conversation on here (on another thread) and it really did come down to- how dare women have sex with someone they don't intend to procreate with (and for a happily married woman who does want kids, just not now . . . well, why not just give it a try?  Most women who do that actually end up doing a great job raising the kid, doncha know). It's just somewhat mind-boggling that they can claim long-term abstinence is a reasonable expectation . . . like, there are places where adultery can get you executed, and still it happens.

I have told them just that. Their argument is still that once a woman has her egg fertilized, she is a mother whether she wants to be or not. They honestly don't care. I have even explained to them that the childfree community of which I belong has had women that have been pregnant and either miscarried or aborted and they STILL insist that such women are mothers of dead babies.
Well, a common statement in pro-life, anti-sex sex education is that condoms fail all the time

So question then. How do you propose people be able to prevent forced childbearing if abortion is not there as a safety net form of birth control? I am a member of the childfree community and there are women there who have had abortions after contraceptive failures. some even had miscarriages. So if abortion had not been available to them, they would have been forced to become mothers despite the fact that they never want to be ones.
I am not proposing anything, though I suppose medical advancements will produce more effective birth control options in the near future. I would share my thoughts on your question, but I know my answer would get downvoted into oblivion, and I don’t see the point in starting a fight. I’m just simply answering your original question.
You could always DM her to avoid the downvotes?
agreed that we need better contraceptives. the ones we have right now have SO many medical side effects. is there any movement without your community to try to raise money for the cause? i know you all have a lot of funding and if we could donate to medical research it would help.
Obviously, contraception is not our primary concern, so we allocate our funds to what is.

what does this mean exactly?
It means they can go ahead with the referendum , which should be in May. If prochoicers win the referendum abortion on request until 12 weeks will be legal.


Governor Phil Bryant tweeted recently: "As I have repeatedly said, I want Mississippi to be the safest place in America for an unborn child. House Bill 1510 will help us achieve that goal" https://twitter.com/PhilBryantMS Perhaps the Governor seems to have ignored the recent studies that rank Mississippi as one of the worst places to raise a child. http://www.wapt.com/article/study-mississippi-louisiana-among-worst-states-to-raise-a-family/15059668 https://wallethub.com/edu/best-states-to-raise-a-family/31065/ Mississippi is also the state with the highest rate of Google searches for self-induced abortions. https://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/06/opinion/sunday/the-return-of-the-diy-abortion.html
Love the fetus, hate the child... beginning to think that's their motto. The thing is, we only have one abortion clinic for the entire state, and I believe they only perform abortions up to 16 weeks. Yes it will effect them some, but this is mostly another publicity stunt meant to slowly chip away at women's rights.
This isn't true. It's demonstrably false. (Citation: https://journals.lww.com/greenjournal/Abstract/2004/04000/Risk_Factors_for_Legal_Induced_Abortion_Related.20.aspx -- even at 21+ weeks, the maternal mortality rate is 8.9 per 100,000; the overall maternal mortality rate in the US as of 2013 is 18 per 100,000, about twice as high.)

Is anyone surprised by this?

Repeal the 8th

I hate living in this backwards ass state, though I was a little prideful after we voted against the personhood amendment a few years ago, which would have banned all abortions, ivf, and all forms of birth control other than barrier methods.
Same :(
Shamelessly copied and pasted from my Facebook: "See, this is the shit I keep on trying to explain to the 'but a 20-week ban is reasonable!' folks. They aren't trying to ban abortions after 20 weeks for any reason other than that it then sets a precedent allowing them to ban them at 15 weeks, then 12, then 6. The anti-abortion side- the activists, the lobbyists, the extremists- don't want any abortion, and they'll keep on taking advantage of your "well, I guess that's not sooo bad" tepidity until they reach their goal."
[removed]
It might behoove you to read the rules of this sub.

Calling people "a piece of swine shit" is likely to get ya banned.
Is it not entirely possible that people are trying to reach a reasonable middle ground? There is a spectrum of morality along the timeline of abortions here, and there is a spectrum of morality when you identify the reasons for abortion. It’s not unreasonable to allow late term abortions that will save the life of the mother, and it’s not unreasonable ban abortions for reasons of convenience after the 20 or 24 week mark.

FTA:

You can have a Planned Parenthood membership??! I need one.
Same. I volunteer with them a bunch, but never got a “membership.” I have gotten a collection of pink T-shirts and free condoms with funny quips on their wrappers, though.
Posting because this rumor has been floating around Reddit lately and it would be good to clarify.
It's so incredible to me that these politicians do their own "checking".  Like, what is staff for, if not "Hey, Bobby, this pink plane totally vindicates me, yeah?  Can you just confirm that before I send out this tweet?"?  (I mean, I guess that's if we're to take it at face value that he's just an idiot, and not purposefully putting out misinformation knowing that far fewer see the debunking than did the original claim).
When I first saw this article from Snopes, its title was: Here are some other articles about this story: The New York Times: Georgia Lawmakers Pass Bill That Stings Delta Over NRA Position U.S. News & World Report: Georgia's Attack on Delta Shouldn't Fly USA Today: NRA fallout: See the list of companies that cut discounts for NRA members after Parkland, Florida school shooting theatlantic.com: A Georgia Republican's Unethical Revenge NBC News: GOP lawmakers in Georgia punish Delta for crossing NRA Los Angeles Times: Georgia punishes Delta Air Lines for crossing the NRA sfgate.com: The Latest: Georgia lt. governor defends denying Delta perk startribune.com: Delta CEO: 'Not taking sides' in gun debate, but Georgia yanks tax break money.cnn.com: Delta CEO: 'We are supporters of the 2nd Amendment' theroot.com: Congratulations, Georgia Has Practically Elected the 1st Black Woman as Governor in America! mercurynews.com: NRA's win over Delta could haunt Georgia in the long run yahoo.com: Delta To Georgia Lawmakers: 'Our Values Are Not For Sale' washingtonexaminer.com: Delta's distancing from the NRA was just a bad publicity stunt. newsobserver.com: Delta CEO insists "we are not taking sides" in US gun debate sfchronicle.com: Will firms go elsewhere after Georgia lawmakers-Delta spat? Complex: Delta Airlines Moves to End Discounts for All 'Politically Divisive' Groups CBS News: NRA discount that triggered Delta showdown was barely used commercial-news.com: Guest editorial: Don't need congressional approval to do the right thing upi.com: Delta CEO after losing $38M tax break over NRA: 'Our values are not for sale' fox29.com: Georgia Gov. Deal signs tax bill sans Delta cuts I am a bot trying to encourage a balanced news diet. These are all of the articles I think are about this story. I do not select or sort articles based on any opinions or perceived biases, and neither I nor my creator advocate for or against any of these sources or articles. It is your responsibility to determine what is factually correct.
... who seriously believed this shit?
For those of you who have had abortions, what do you think you would have done if it had been illegal? Do you think you would have still found a way? What do you think your life would be like if you had not been able to abort?
Never had an abortion. But historically women still had abortions, many of them just died or were injured in the process.
I absolutely agree with u/Brownie-1234. For many centuries, women have found ways to abort -- herbally, back alley, or just surreptitiously. It's not as though abortion is new to this century.
I’ve though of this situation and I’d gut the little spawn out myself if I ever did end up pregnant and abortion was illegal. Id have to be held down, drugged up and forced to carry it to term.
me too
I would have found a way....
glad you are alive and didn't have to resort to anything extreme.

Great. So no easier access to healthcare for women or access to birth control if they undo everything Obama did for healthcare reform... And US still doesn’t provide paid maternal leave. M
I think he means "saves the lives of the unborn". Without abortion there would be more people on the planet.
So by that reasoning banning contraceptives would also 'save lives' as more babies would be born
Not at all. Contraceptives prevent life from forming to begin with. It's not the same as destroying a growing fetus that is already conceived.
Contraceptives ARE the next target. Pence and others like him falsely believe (1) the pill and the IUD are abortives and (2) sex is solely for procreation and contraceptives are therefore against god.
I have fingers and toes crossed for this idiot to lose this one
Well I can't speak to Pence's views on contraception, I personally don't support him politically. I'm a registered Dem and I do support easy access to BC and state required sex-ed in schools.

I'd like to ask an honest question, and I'd like to get mature and non hysteric, non mean spirited answers.When someone demonstrates they're not responsible enough to own a gun, we don't let them own one.   When someone demonstrates they're not responsible enough to drive a car, we don't let them drive one.   When someone demonstrates they're not responsible enough to drink alcohol, they're ordered to abstain.When someone demonstrates they're not responsible enough to handle reproduction... why don't we follow similar suit?FWIW... I am pro-life.. but not necessarily anti-abortion.   I think it should be available... but that it should come with consequences.   It seems to me that today, it comes with literally zero consequences, if not outright praise in some circles.Why don't we treat "reproductive rights" like other rights... that can be taken away if you abuse them or demonstrate you're not capable of handling them responsibly?
I think it's because it involves a persons body directly. The only way to make sure a female does not become pregnant is to forcibly sterilize them something that is generally not allowed by law in most cases. With the other things you mentioned it involves interacting with a non biological physical object or substance. Supreme court cases have determined the right to birth control and that abortion can't be made illegal. Lots of people in this country have way to many kids they can't afford but these people are never stopped due to having reproductive right. They same should be said if someone decides to end their pregnancy instead. Each individual has the right to decide what to to in the case of them getting pregnant with some limitations. Pregnancy is a natural biological function not something that can be directly controlled by the government just because of some objection like religion in the case of abortion.
Thank you for such a civil answer.
You're welcome .
As a person who does actually possess a license to parent (Yep, username) I can tell you that this is for multiple reasons. One, (and most importantly) simple eugenics. We've proven very well that deciding who should and should not have children by certain arbitrary standards is not effective and is harmful.  Two, would be very difficult to regulate. Three, it's clear that not everyone needs this, and parenting styles are different. Heck, I saw a video last night of a guy who thought he was doing the right thing by making his kid (9 year old) run to school through the rain, and the kid had to go through school soaking wet all day. I am a licensed foster parent. I pick up the pieces for kids when parents fall down. My licensing involved extensive education, Doctor and psychologist visits, home inspections, and regular visits to the home by social workers. A large percentage of Americans think that this is a money making proposition (as in I make bank from these kids) and are insulting about what I do for these children. Let me assure you, this is not something you do for money. You do it for love. While kids are in foster care, social services works with their parents to either improve the situation or to terminate parental rights. Obviously, foster care is temporary, and ideally, the children can be reunited with their families. corrected typo
I have a ton of respect for foster parents who take it seriously like you do.   Kudos!
Thank you for doing what you do
Who orders people to abstain from alcohol? Only way the government can enforce that is if they are probation. They can yank their license but you can’t force them to abstain unless they are on probation. Also, the sex = consequences is a dangerous argument. Are you proposing that a woman should be forced to carry a baby to term as a consequence for having sex? Should she be forced to become a parent? Should she be forced through a painful delivery because of sex? Choosing an abortion is a consequence is the base definition of the word. It is just a consequence that people like to dismiss. It is dealing with the situation in the manner the person sees fit. In all honesty, it is a personal decision that needs to be made bu the person. Now, if you are proposing sterilization if people are not responsible enough for sex, that is a slippery slope. Borrowing from Jesus from South Park, I’m not touching that with a ten foot pole. The best option would be to allow sex education and easy access to free procedures like IUDs, implants, depo, etc to allow a woman to make choices. This would also allow her to get pregnant down the line if she so choses. However, some crazy religious right wants to do away with easier access to birth control. They also want to undo insurance changes which could meab women pay more for health insurance (first year of picking plans, there was additional charges for pregnancy, women services, and birth control). Also, think about it, we want women to carry pregnancies to term but offer limited health insurance. We also do not offer any paid maternity leave.
People who are in front of a judge are often ordered to abstain from alcohol. Well... is sex w/o consequences a dangerous argument as well?   I guess I just don't understand why I, as a responsible taxpayer and citizen, must be forced to pay for people's repeat bad decisions.   So yes I think that possibly in order to receive any abortion numbering more than one, you should be sterilized as well.   That person is obviously not capable of making mature decisions regarding procreation, I don't think it's fair or wise to ask the rest of us to keep shouldering their bad decisions and lack of self control. FWIW... my job is teeth.. and I feel the same way about them.   If someone makes bad decisions one after another, then expects the public to pay to fix their teeth, then continues said deleterious behavior, the only solution that should be offered is to remove them so they're not a problem anymore. You can live without teeth.   You can live without reproductive ability. All the more reason women need to exercise more self control respect the gravity of their behavior more.   She didn't get pregnant by "accident" (unless someone fell on and ejaculated inside her in a split second).   Also all the more reason women should be getting pregnant with a partner... not alone.   There's nothing virtuous about being a single mother... something we used to understand a lot better in days gone by.
Would you also want people that have children when they can’t  afford it sterilised?
No... because they're not degrading the value of life and ending it merely for convenience.   In essence... I don't believe having a child when you're not wealthy is evil.   I believe  murdering fetuses is.
What state do you live in, if I may ask?
not something I feel comfortable answering here
I was curious as to whether your state did, in fact, use state funds for eligible recipients seeking abortion- some allow it, others no.  Because, as I'm sure you know, no federal funds can be used to fund abortion.
Sure it does.  It costs money and time.  It's uncomfortable and has medical risks.  Why do you want it to have more consequences?  Why would the world be better if it had more consequences? An abortion can be a responsible choice.  A 17yo girl who already has one child and one abortion and is struggling to finish high school?  Abortion is a responsible decision.  Do you want to sterilize her at 17?  And then when she's 25 and finished college and has met the love of her life and wants to give her 8yo a little sibling... nope!  Tough luck.  Shouldn't have had that second unplanned pregnancy back when you were 17 and couldn't legally vote. Now, don't get me wrong, I disagree with a lot of my patient's reproductive choices.  But I don't force them to do what I would do.  I try to give them the tools to make a good and informed decision.  We, as a society, can do a lot more to give people the tools to make better decisions.
so ending a human life should have minimal consequences?   Does that mean if I murder you and I stub my toe in the process... that attones for it? Would this not serve as a "deterant" to other 17 year olds getting pregnant with babies they can't raise?    I definitely think so.   When you hold people accountable for their choices... they make better choices.... Abortion is a responsible decision... brought on by a plethora of irresponsible decisions.   Responsible behavior in the beginning = no need for abortion to begin with.   Why is that so hard for pro-choicers to understand??   Or do you think we should be free wheeling fuck whoever we want without consequences?
This might come as a shock to you, but I don't see having (or performing!) an abortion as murder. But even if you do, this still seems like an odd reaction.  I mean, you're proposing permanent sterilization, and in this paragraph at least it's in a punishment context.  So if you murder me... the state can permanently sterilize you and that would atone for it?  Or maybe cut off the hand that you killed me with? I'm not sure that I'm comfortable with your model of justice.  A little too close to Hammurabi for me. I'm confused, are you proposing this as a deterrent or as a punishment?  Because you want to prevent more pregnancies, or because you think the world is a better place when bad things happen to people who did things you didn't want them to do? If anything it would serve as a deterrent to people getting terminations.  Most unplanned pregnancies don't happen in moments governed by reasoned, long-term thinking.  I'm getting a strong impression from you that you don't discuss sex with a lot of teenagers. If you want to reduce unplanned teen pregnancies, we know what works: giving them access to contraceptives and the information and mental tools they need to make good decisions.  Not taking away their reproductive abilities when they fail to make choices you agree with. So why not sterilize people who have unplanned pregnancies in untenable situations and then make the additional irresponsible decision of not choosing abortion? Hey, why not sterilize the sperm donors of these unplanned pregnancies? Wait, hang on.  They didn't cover this in ob/gyn school.  Please, tell me about pregnancy prevention.  Us pro-choice people are well-known for being bad at encouraging contraceptive use, so I'm glad I have you to help me understand. Go on.  I'm listening.
Most people w/o morals feel the same Women are the gatekeepers of sex... and should be held accountable as such.   With power comes responsibility.   And that's the whole crux of the abortion thing right... ya'll want free wheeling no consequences fun sex... with no responsibility. Hey I want to be able to shoot off rounds walking down the street at anyone I don't like.   But that wouldn't be responsible would it. Try keeping your legs closed?
You’re ready to require sterilization for women who you feel have sex irresponsibly, while at the same time dismissing all responsibility for men. Gotcha.
A man can only enter a woman who lets her... time to start holding them accountable for their decisions (they have ZERO accountability today).   Be a fucking grown up for once and have some responsibility for who you let put their dick inside you (especially unprotected). Conversely, I believe a man who forces himself on a woman should be castrated.
You have really weird and misogynist views on sex and sexuality. Did you know that sometimes men don't want to have sex with people? Did you know that sometimes men think about what the consequences of sex are going to be, and decide whether or not they have sex based on those consequences?
Most rabid radical feminists think that.   Most normal people don't. Since you're bringing up men so much... why aren't men allowed to be part of the decision regarding termination of pregnancy?   You seem to be of the misandrist point of view that they should bear responsibility when it's convenient for the woman... and should be barred from decision making when it's convenient for the woman. Sorry you're a misandrist... that doesn't make me a misogynist...
They absolutely do.  Every person has complete control over the decision of the termination of any pregnancy in their body.  Men and women have equal rights in this regard. No, but I am really beginning to wonder if you're a little bit incel, and that's why you think of women as gatekeepers for sex.  It would make sense if the reason were that you had never personally turned down sex.
100% dishonest bullshit.   If I get a woman pregnant... I have ZERO say right now in if the pregnancy goes to term or not.   Your statement is EXCEPTIONALLY dishonest and you should be ashamed for spewing such dishonest drivel. I have... but honestly... no not often.   The same can be said for pretty much every man on the planet.   If you don't understand how that works... you don't understand basic sociology and biology.   In that case you should repeat HS before we can have an intelligent conversation on the topic.

It's not entirely clear what you're asking here- are you talking about taking away the right to abortion from people who has, in your words, demonstrated they're not responsible enough to handle reproduction"? Or are you talking about taking away the ability to reproduce (i.e. forced sterilization or monitored forced contraception) for said folks deemed unworthy of the right? If it's the latter, it's our history of abusing such power- that when the state or medical authorities have been empowered to decide who gets to reproduce, they inevitably drift towards limiting the reproductive capacities of minorities, the poor, the disabled, etc. in ways that are incredibly racist, ableist, and eugenicist in nature. Every once in a while a judge or prison will try to offer reduced sentences in exchange for the defendant/prisoner limiting their reproductive capacity, and reproductive rights groups take them to task for trying to re-introduce this kind of state social engineering.
No.   I'm saying a repeat abortion should be allowed only if the patient agrees to accept sterilization.   It should be a condition of the procedure. I'm of the opinion that that person simply shouldn't be having children. So are you arguing that if someone is poor or a minority, yet they're causing the rest of society trouble... that they shouldn't be responsible for the trouble they cause simply because of their status?   I understand they correlate... but correlation isn't a reason to turn away from the problem.
You asked why it is that reproduction seems to be exempt from the way we treat other things; I gave an explanation.  As I said, the problem is that in the past, the power over people's reproduction has been abused, often because certain classes of people are perceived to be "causing the rest of society trouble".  We have plenty of evidence to show how our biases (acknowledged or subconscious) have been implemented. (There's also the argument that permanent sterilization is an unfair punishment- that making a mistake like, say, getting addicted to drugs, shouldn't prevent you from ever having another child even after you get cleaned up and are seen as a fine, upstanding citizen).
I'm not saying it should be employed as "punishment"... just as a condition of receiving the procedure a 2nd time.    One singular time... no big deal.   But if you find yourself back in the same place again, that's a problem. I think part of the problem too is how nonchalant we see abortion.
We're obviously going to disagree on the proposal, seeing as you're anti-abortion and I'm not, but I suppose we can discuss how impractical it would be?  If such a policy was implemented, it would somewhat destroy the idea of medical privacy in this scenario, as the government would have to keep track of a given woman's abortions.
You know... I totally hadn't considered that.   Definitely not a fan of the govt tracking things.   Very solid point!
You know, this post just popped up over on /r/abortion and I instantly thought of this thread.  Here's a woman who was trying to be responsible and made a common mistake- missed a pill- and got pregnant* and had an abortion.  Determined to not let it happen again, she shifted to a LARC (long-acting reversible contraceptive) like the IUD, where she'd no longer even have the opportunity to miss a pill, and still ended up pregnant.  She still very much wants to have a child at some point in the future. I just don't think that she ought be sterilized against her will, you know?  Granted, I don't think anybody should, but I wonder if stories like this sway your stance any, given that she definitely doesn't fit into some stereotype of a careless person using abortion in lieu of contraception. Which it should be said, doesn't necessarily mean that the missed pill was the cause of the pregnancy, since even in perfect use, it's not 100% effective.
Here's a sneak peek of /r/abortion using the top posts of the year! #1: I hope this helps someone | 6 comments#2: My Medical Abortion Failed#3: I had my abortion today. I'm a bot, beep boop | Downvote to remove | Contact ^^me | ^^Info | ^^Opt-out
Is having unprotected sex with someone you don't want to raise a child with "responsible"?   Where I come from that's decidedly irresponsible.   Maybe I was just parented better?   I dunno. We keep focusing on the act of aborting itself as "responsible"... but always tend to ignore the behavior that leads to its necessity.   That's where I'm coming from.   Keep your legs closed... don't let just anyone put their dick up in there... and the need for abortions suddenly disappears.   It's not that hard. Babies aren't just born out of thin air....
Did you actually click on and read the link to the post?  Or even my description of it?  Like, the part where she was on the birth control pill for her first pregnancy and on the IUD for her second?  That the person she's with currently (and with whom she is now pregnant) is someone she does want to have a child with sometime in the future?
Yes... I did.    She sounds insanely selfish and self centered. Again... I have to ask... WHY ARE YOU (colloquially) HAVING UNPROTECTED SEX WITH SOMEONE YOU'RE NOT READY TO HAVE A CHILD WITH???
???  In both instances, she thought the sex she was having was protected.
So if her partner had an STD... She would have been protected? Sorry... But no

I think the mentioned "rights" are not comparable because they aren't bodily autonomy. Having a gun or a car is a thing one can own, but the analogy doesn't really follow with a body. It looks like a court can order a drinkig ban in the UK but I'm not seeing evidence of it in the U.S. I don't see how alcohol abstainance could possibly be enforced, in the U.S. we're not too keen on the government controlling what we do in the privacy of our homes.  Neither car ownership nor drinking are guaranteed rights. Anyway, I don't find it fair to say that abortion comes with no consequences. you have to pay for it, and in most states it takes 2 appointments, so two days of coordinating your work schedule. Possibly taking time off work. driving a long distance in a few states. It can be really stressful for women without family or partner support. It's physical uncomfortable if not painful. There is recovery time for a few days. Most rights cannot be taken away. Beyond the second amendment which says you can possess a thing, which is different than having a body capable of reproduction, I don't think any of them do. Free speech, freedom of religion, free from having to quarter soldier in your home, freedom from unreasonable reach and seizure, right to a speedy trial, etc.
Who decides what is responsible? people get pregnant every day who were actively trying not to. i volunteer in an abortion clinic. i have interacted with people who have had EVERY form of contraception fail them. even sterilization is not fool proof. you also have to factor in rape, situational changes, etc.
Do you mean forcible sterilization? How do we define who is "not responsible enough" to reproduce. This sounds like eugenics to me.
You mean it should be mandatory to abort all unplanned pregnancies? I could get on board with that. No one would be carrying a pregnancy to term if they didn't think about it carefully before conceiving.
nah.   A grown up who rises to the occasion and steps up should be commended.   A coward who ends a human life merely for convenience and to atone for their bad decisions... shouldn't be allowed to  be in that position again.
Having a child you're not enthusiastic about is morally wrong. Anyone who aborts an unplanned pregnancy should be commended, although of course they should be offered sterilization so it doesn't happen again.
I won't disagree.   A woman who sees a child as a burden and is willing to end it's existence for her convenience is disgusting... and morally wrong.   But that said, the best parents I see (and I see them every day in my work) are NEVER the ones who are "enthusiastic" about it.   Those are the helicopter parents who end up obsessing over every detail and raise soy boys and lunatic feminists. I just never could understand how a woman would be so cold and so empty inside as to not have her life profoundly changed for the better by becoming pregnant.   I saw that change in my sister.   It's what changed me from being pro choice to pro life. A woman who can't put her interests aside to raise a child and love him/her... life's absolutely most powerful act... is morally repugnant to me... and isn't really a woman... just an empty shell with a vagina.
I can. Saw it in my mother. I would have vastly preferred to be aborted.
I'm sorry to hear that... but life is always precious.   I too grew up with a mother who didn't love me and didn't want me. I'm glad I'm alive... and I hope you are too someday.   100% honesty there... no ill will.   PM me if you want to talk about it.
I'm not talking to a disgusting misogynist who has just called me a walking vagina. Fuck off. Also, she did love me, but her life was made profoundly worse by the pregnancy. I'm not selfish enough to celebrate that.
[removed]
Warning: comment like that again here and we'll ban you.
Having fun ? 🙄


I'm sorry truth offends you so much

On a practical note how do you think women who don’t want to be pregnant and can’t have abortions will act ? Some of them might accept it and look after their health. A percentage will resent having their bodies ‘ highjacked’ and will drink, take drugs  either as an attempt to abort or apathy towards the health of the future baby . There is a reason  why the majority of OECD countries have legal abortion
I'd also say those same reasons are why pretty much all of those cultures are pathetic and are currently being run over by migrants
What are your thoughts on the first part of my comment?
Sorry... took me a min to understand what you're asking. So if I get the question correctly... you're basically asking what will happen if women who don't want to get pregnant don't have the option of abortion.   Fair question.   Two responses: adoption.   Happens every day.   There are probably MILLIONS of good, upstanding, well adjusted people who were adopted.   I know several firsthand.   The thought of their never being brought into existence because they might have been aborted... bothers me. I imagine your point, and it's valid, is that some women will end up having the child, resenting it, and causing significant harm to both the child, and indirectly society because of this.   That's a valid concern.   I'm also living proof that it's not a foregone conclusion, since that was essentially my upbringing. But beyond that... is it fair to say that there's at least a decent possibility that if we were to value the sanctity and preciousness of life in a way that's impossible with massive amounts of abortion... that we would have a culture in which said harm to society might be much less?   I think the "women who don't want to be pregnant" issue is largely a condition and result of that culture which doesn't value life.   Conversely in a culture where life is seen as precious and where respect for it is not only commanded, but people willingly choose to value it above all else, that said women will be far and few between because the culture at large wouldn't tolerate them.   We actually know this, because prior to the late 60s and Roe V Wade... this was essentially our culture.   Women who were interested mainly in their own self and hedonistic pleasures were mocked and ostracized for the most part... and most women voluntarily chose not to go down such a path.
Have you been to Europe? Muslims are still a small percentage of the population eg the UK has 4.4 percent of its population as Muslim in the last census
And what portion of the population were they 15 years ago?   Sweeden?   France?   Germany?
Why is it so hard to wear a condom, use spermicide(they even have ones with spermicide in them!) AND do the shots/pills/inserts?(or women can shut their legs...?) I mean, there are natural pregnancy prevention methods, though they aren't as effective as modern methods.There will always be accidental pregnancies and legit reasons for late-term and regular abortions(Rape, incest, etc). I get that. There will always be babies who were simply 'meat to be born' IMO(not religious, I also think that babies who were miscarriages, might have been the next Hitler, who knows?) But it shouldn't take you months on end, after you've figured out you're pregnant, to decide whether you want the baby or not.Also, enough people don't even realize they're pregnant, that they made a show about it.I am fine with abortion, I just think it should be done as soon as it's found out.To people who say men should be the ones to prevent pregnancy-it takes two people(Excluding anomalies) to get pregnant.Edited majorlyNother Edit- there's a lot of ways they manage to have unwanted pregnancies. Yeesh. Sorry girls :(
I would consider the idea that an abortion is not always the first choice, nor is it always as simple as "I don't want to be pregnant". Even the best birth control can fail.  (If you put any faith in the Bible, then Mary might tell you even abstinence isn't 100%)  If you're living paycheck to paycheck, then it can take time to find the resources for an abortion (and I'm talking about more than just the dollar cost).  There could be a change of circumstances, unexpected loss of income or spouse/partner/family support.  There could (very easily) be a change in maternal health risk factors.  There could be new and terrible information on fetal health. Sometimes it's just as simple as fear, getting frozen in the headlights of this life-changing decision.  Being afraid to take a step one way or another will turn tomorrow into a week into three months faster than you'd ever believe.  When there aren't any good choices, that happens a lot. There are many, many reasons beyond those why even a wanted pregnancy can end in abortion, months after the pregnancy is known.  Which is why that's a decision that is ultimately best made between the woman and her physician.  Not by you, not by me, not by protestors or activists or priests or pundits, and certainly not by politicians or presidents.
Why is it only the woman's ordeal to prevent pregnancy? There are some issues with your little rant. Many women who get abortions report using contraception. Human error or inconsistency is definitely a factor in some failures. You assume everyone can use spermacide. If I use spermacide ointment, sponge, or condoms I have a very unpleasant reaction involving swelling, itching and burning pain. I will NOT endure that indignity for anyone. I use hormonal birth control without fail in a committed relationship. If it should fail we will make our decision for our life. No one else needs to concern themselves with our decision. Hormonal contraception is not recommended for women with a familial history of certain cancers, are smokers, over 40, or have had blood clots or a blood clot disorder. The point? Not every woman can use every contraception option. So we each make do with what we can.
Abuse. Incest. Rape. Systemic lack of access and education.
I have no issue with abortion in a lot of cases, especially these, I just think it should be found out and done as quick as possible.
As do the women seeking them!  You should go to the /r/abortion forum sometime and read posts from women upset that they can't get it over with sooner- sometimes they have to wait because it's too early to verify the pregnancy/make sure its not ectopic, sometimes they have to wait for the first open appointment at the clinic (remember, 87% of counties lack an abortion provider), and sometimes they've got to wait until they can get the funds for an abortion.  They want the pregnancy symptoms (if they have them at that point) over and done with.  They want to get on with their lives.
Some people can't use hormonal options, none of them, for health reasons. some people can't afford to continually buy barrier methods like condoms, spermicide and today sponges. some people lack access to those methods. some people have abusive partners who sabotage birth control measures altogether.
I've never actually thought of the last one, jeez.
its called reproductive coercion. look it up.
Why do people come up with so many ways to abuse others :(
because we are a messed up species.
There are a lot of things that bother me about the tone of that suggestion.  ("Can't you keep your legs shut?")  As though having sex isn't a normal and natural thing that the majority of adults do for fun. But somehow, the thing that bothers me the most about it is -- do conservatives who use that phrase not realize that you can have sex with your legs together? Anyway, one a more serious note: Why do you think that there are so many unplanned pregnancies? Why do you think that some abortions happen at later gestational ages?
I think that people use abortion as a form of birth control, so they don't bother trying to prevent them, even though they know they don't want them.
Abortion can only be used as birth control.  What else should it be used as? Why would anybody do that?  Is abortion a very good method of birth control?  More comfortable, convenient, safe, and cost-effective than an IUD? Why would people act against their best interests like that?
Just gonna throw some stats out here. Sexual irresponsibility has declined. Standard measures include rates of abortion and sexually transmitted infections. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), since 1990, the nation's abortion rate has fallen 41 percent. The syphilis rate has plummeted 74 percent. And the gonorrhea rate has plunged 57 percent. Teen sex has declined. The CDC says that since 1991, the proportion of teens who have had intercourse has decreased 7 percent. Teen condom use has increased 16 percent. And the teen birth rate has fallen 33 percent. This whole myth of abortion being used as birth control by a sex-crazed population of women is just false when we look at the data.
No woman is going to take the morning after pill every time they have sex, one dose costs around $50 and they are not meant to be taken on a regular basis. Also they are not 100% effective. It is not practical to expect women to use condoms, spermicide, and take the morning after pill every time they have sex on top of that. No method is 100%. Why is it so hard for men not to get women pregnant? Maybe men should stop getting women pregnant if they're so against women getting abortions.
OP is female and said she's not against abortion.
They didn't originally say any of that and they originally told women to use condoms AND the morning after pill, which is in no way practical for women to do every time they have sex. Where are the posts asking men why they keep getting women pregnant? Women don't just get pregnant all on their own.
It's ignorant to make assumptions about someone just from their beliefs, as shown here. You assumed OP's gender and were wrong.
I never assumed anyone's gender lol. Never used a pronoun for them.
It sounds like you could benefit from some reading . . . Timing of steps and reasons for delays in obtaining abortions in the United States Reported contraceptive use in the month of becoming pregnant among U.S. abortion patients in 2000 and 2014 Edited to add: Looks like the hyperlink won't format correctly because it has parentheses in it, so you can just copy and paste it: http://www.contraceptionjournal.org/article/S0010-7824(18)30003-9/fulltext Contraceptive Use Among U.S. Women Having Abortions in 2000-2001
Some women don’t find out right away that they are pregnant. 6 weeks is pretty early. Then there are women who may be in a committed relationship only to break up and find themselves alone. Look up the music video by Everlast “What it’s like” and think about the first scenario.
What the hell
I'm wondering, in a learning way, why so many women end up with unwanted pregnancies when there are so many options, including full abstinence and total surgery(Though I think there have been cases where that failed too??) No problem with abortion here.
Abstinence is typically a pretty awful form of contraception.  We understand that it's natural and expected for adults in sexual relationships to engage in non-procreative intercourse, and for teenagers (who we might think it most prudent to not do so), we have a fair amount of evidence to show that abstinence fails pretty dismally (which is to say: teenagers have a better chance of avoiding pregnancy if they plan on using protection if/when they have sex rather than planning on not having sex at all). And as for sterilization, the fact is that most women do eventually want children . . . it's just that they fell pregnant before they felt ready or before the time was right.  For them, sterilization isn't an option, as they want to keep their fertility for a future date.  And for those who never want children- there are quite a few forums dedicated to helping women find doctors who will sterilize them while young, as a surprising number refuse, citing fear of patient regret.
That's just how statistics work. Take a small (<1% per year) risk of contraception failure and apply it to a huge population over multiple years and you're going to see a large number of pregnancies.
Heh. The flip side of this is that some women, like myself, desperately want to have a child. Don't get me wrong, I am super pro-choice...but getting pregnant is not so simple as you seem to think it is! When you mention that women should find out and do something in a timely fashion, let me also say that women who are infertile, like myself, often do not have any regular menstrual cycles, so those women would not be likely to notice, as missing their period would be totally normal for them. As it can be up to 14 weeks before feeling the fetus move, a woman in that situation may not realize for quite some time. Goodness know, our human nature, and biology, hormones, and laws of attraction can find folks unprepared, but ultimately taking a chance. Even when someone IS prepared, and using contraception, these are never 100% safe. As to your suggestion to "keep your legs shut," that seems awfully slut shaming. Women are making a lot of public statements right now about being pressured for sex, in all sorts of situations, and all sorts of other harassment. If you are a woman who is being harassed or pressured, you may find it difficult to respond, stand up for yourself, or fight back -- because you get called names, hit, shamed, and dismissed for those things too. I'm sure that more than one of these situations has led to an unexpected pregnancy. Further, with contraception not being 100% effective is that other things can interfere with it. Antibiotics can mess up your method, as can forgetting to take one pill. Human's have different bodies and different responses to medicines, so there is a differential there as well. I think, as simple as you would like it to be, it is just not that easy.
Lol now they're saying it takes two to get pregnant. We know that! That is why we have issue with you telling women to take the morning after pill every time they have sex. Where are the posts telling men to keep it in their pants if they don't want women having an abortion? Women don't get theirselves pregnant. We constantly get anti-choicers telling women not to have sex, where are the posts telling men to keep it in their pants?
I live in a red state and am planning on visiting the capitol to go talk to pro-life legislators. I also love the power of storytelling, in terms of personal repro justice stories, that help humanize the issue. Any tips?
Does your state's Planned Parenthood have any training days?  I know mine has bootcamps, kinda, where they train attendees on how to talk to representatives and do other forms of activism.
Which state? The most effective way is finding a shared value and connecting that value to why you support abortion access. If you have your own personal story, share it. Don't share others' stories without their consent though.
I should preface this by stating that I volunteer as an escort at an abortion clinic. I have talked to numerous patients as well as many people in my personal life. As such, I have listened to numerous stories of why people have abortions. I have YET to have anyone tell me that the only reason they had an abortion was because they didn't want to be pregnant. In every case, they also stated that they didn't want to have a child. I don't think the pro choice argument should focus on whether or not an embryo has the right to use a woman's body but whether or not a woman can be forced to have a child. It might be possible someday for ectogenesis to develop. I have also proposed that question to many of the women I know who have aborted. The vast majority of them have told me that they would not be comfortable donating the embryo to an artificial womb because it would mean having a child somewhere. share your thoughts on this below.
I think you may be expecting too much from women in that you are looking for a very specific answer that the women are unaware of. I am a former escort myself, and while I never pried in to women’s personal reasons, I have to believe that many people equate not wanting a child and not being pregnant. If you are having this discussion with, as you say, patients, you are exploiting them at an incredibly vulnerable time in their lives to “prove’ your point, with completely non-scientific research that would never get past an IRB.
i have NEVER talked about this with them. i just have had patients tell me their reasons without me EVER even asking them any questions. but if it was possible to remove an embryo and transfer it to, say, an artificial womb, i assure you the vast majority would not be comfortable doing that.
Who are you...the orange dude in chief? Say one thing then contradict yourself when challenged?
apologies, i am not sure what you are talking about. i just posed a question to this thread. i see the bodily autonomy argument used ad nauseam in debates and i don't think it is a good argument. people don't have abortions just to not be pregnant. they do it to not become parents.
I think you don’t know what you are talking about...because that’s been your non-answer to two people now.
please explain to me what i am not doing right.
It’s been explained.
I think that there is an implicit reason in their answers that, when they say "I do not want to have a child right now," they are also saying, "in contexts when I don't want to have a child, I also do not want to be pregnant."
im not understanding you.
If I asked somebody, "do you want a hamburger?" and they said, "no thank you, I'm not hungry," you might say -- "wait, that's not a reason not to want a hamburger!  You could put it in the fridge for later.  You could throw it on the ground.  You could make modern art with it." There is an implied reason in there that, when not hungry, they don't want a hamburger.  They don't like wasting food, for example, or they don't want to pay money for it. Similarly, when somebody is asked, "do you want to be pregnant?" and they reply, "no, I can't afford to care for a child right now," there are implied reasons that when they don't want a child, they also don't want to be pregnant (or continue being pregnant).
What are you talking about? This makes no sense. Your "hamburger" argument is strawman. These two scenarios are completely unrelated.
How can my own argument be a strawman?  Alright, will try to explain again without an analogy. I agree that, when people are asked why they want an abortion, they generally will reply with reasons that they don't want to parent at this time in their lives. I see two possible reasons for this: They are completely unaware that adoption exists. They are skipping over a part of their reasoning that connects these two dots.  They are skipping over explaining how, when they don't want to parent, they also don't want to be pregnant. Since I have sometimes counseled them myself, I know that 1 isn't the reason.
Sorry I meant "false equivalency". (It's early) I can understand not wanting to be pregnant or go thru labor, but your hamburger thing makes absolutely no sense in this context. The two have no correlation so it's not correct to say one equals the other. But maybe you can elaborate more about how it relates to pregnancy because right now I'm missing the connection.
It was meant as another example of how somebody's answer might skip over an assumed step.  They're answering why they don't want to eat a hamburger, but you asked if they wanted to have a hamburger.  Lots of things you can do with it without eating it!  Like give it to somebody else who wants to eat it. But I abandoned the analogy explanation and went for a straightforward explanation.  Does my more straightforward explanation make sense?
Yes I appreciate straight forward responses much more. Thank you.
And it made sense?  I gave it two comments up.
Not the hamburger part. The real-life explanation yes but I wasn't seeing how the two were connected. I think it's better to just stick to facts rather than analogies because they almost never line up.
"Bodily autonomy" ≠ "I just don't want to be pregnant". The not wanting to be pregnant thing is an argument that some people invoke, yes, but it's not necessarily about bodily autonomy, which is having your body be autonomous from intrusion by the state against your will.  Am I an autonomous being granted the right to make decisions about what happens inside my body, or not?  That's what bodily autonomy is.
im sorry. i guess something is just not registering with me. i understand what bodily autonomy is and why it is important. and it absolutely DOES have a lot to do with abortion rights. All i am saying though is that i don't think it is the most important part of the argument defending abortion rights. i think the argument defending the right to control one's reproduction is of far greater importance because most abortions happen to avoid parenthood.
See, I'm not sure you do understand what bodily autonomy is, or at least, that we might be using the same word to talk about different concepts. How do you define "bodily autonomy"?  Like, what dictionary definition-style meaning are you using?
the ability to decide what happens to ones body, inside or outside of it and what or who gets to use it for what purposes.
Ah, that sounds about right.  I personally think bodily autonomy does cover seeking contraception and abortion in order to avoid parenthood, given that at least currently, parenthood typically takes its path through the body.
I didn't want to be pregnant. The whole process scared me and made me feel uncomfortable. Like if my body wasn't really my body while I was pregnant. I was unhappy and disconnected from my life. Like living in another dimention. I do want kids, but a pregnancy is not my choice for now. Not for the pain, or something. No the physical changes, simply I don't like the idea of growing a baby inside my body. I will start therapy to help me coping with that.
I understand. I wasn't meaning to imply that bodily autonomy has NOTHING to do with the discussion, just that it isn't the only.
What people mean when they say that is "if I wanted a child, I would be willing to endure the risks and physical violation of pregnancy, but I don't, so why should I put myself at risk?"

Abortion Restrictions harm women and children.

I was surprised to find this online with the full text for free. "A Defense of Abortion" is one of the most comprehensive guides out there when it comes to defending the Pro-Choice perspective. Thought it is a bit lengthy, it is highly recommended to anyone who is serious about Pro-Choice Apologetics.
Can you give a tldr lol?
Not really, the book looks at a bunch of different arguments for and against abortion and analyzes their effectiveness. If you are short on time, you can use the table of contents to find the specific argument you are looking for.
Good find!

I hate Scott Lloyd more than almost anyone.
He's definitely "bottom of the barrel" material! He gives out incorrect information on health issues he knows nothing about, then can't remember what he said.
I think we discussed him on r/ProChoice a long time ago.
Health and Human Services takes custody of underage illegal immigrants who have come to the US without their parents. Scott Lloyd, an anti-abortion activist, is head of refugee resettlement with HHS. As part of that job, Lloyd -- who confuses birth control with abortions -- has made a point of denying legal abortions to underage pregnant rape victims. Additionally, he has been forcing shelter staff to provide incorrect info to underage clients, including telling them babies born in US to illegal immigrants will automatically become US citizens. He also directed staff to forbid underage clients the right to meet with attorneys regarding obtaining a judicial bypass for obtaining abortions. Lloyd acknowledged he believes those girls don't have a right to a legal abortion due to their immigration status.
I was having troubles interpreting Guttmatcher's statistics before I read this. I was also having some issues making my disapproval of contraception compatible with my pro-life beliefs without going into my moral beliefs. But now I have seen a decent speech on the matter that actually makes some sense. Thank you so much for posting this here.

Yay!



If you know anyone who identifies as LGBTQ+, has had an abortion and would be willing to talk to me for an hour via phone call, please ask them to fill out this survey. I will be forever grateful to you if you can help me distribute this request. Again, this pilot study is for a class project, but it may allow for a more robust research project in the future. Participants will receive a $15 Amazon Gift Card as thanks for participating in the study. https://iu.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_3KvvJfzWtTNCgK1

As always, it comes down to Anthony Kennedy.

So I’m watching Grey’s Anatomy and there’s a conflict in the show that seems like it could be a real life problem for some people, though of course this specific example is fictional.So April finds out she’s pregnant the morning before she finalizes a divorce with Jackson. Jackson doesn’t find out about the pregnancy until a couple months later. When he finds out, he sues April and can fight for full custody of the child since April kept this knowledge from him before the divorce. I found this interesting because the court could award Jackson full custody of the child before it’s even born, but April could legally abort the child if she doesn’t want Jackson to have the child. This raises a lot of questions for the pro-choice side (I’m pro-life, please don’t hate me lol). How can a court award full custody of a child that may not even be born at the will of the mother? How could a court take away a child from a healthy (not crazy, addicted, in legal trouble, etc.)  mother immediately after going through a nine month pregnancy? And there are many other questions I’m sure that could be raised, which I’d love to hear in the comments. I’d like to hear many opinions from the pro-choice point of view.Also, I’m no lawyer, so I could be completely misunderstanding the legal process here, or it may be much simpler than I think.
All courts I an aware of will not hold custody cases till the child is born for various reasons such as the fetus has no name, no social security card, etc. The fetus may be born in a different state and then live in said state which case that state would be the state to have custody filed in. I doubt that any court would award full custody to the father because she didn’t tell him about the pregnancy. They also probably wouldn’t award custody till the paternity is established  or whatever that acknowledgement of paternity is signed because well, what if the baby isn’t his? Many courts see the benefit of the woman trying to breast feed for a year. In all honesty, this comes off as TV drama
I'm no lawyer, either, and spent a few minutes Googling around and getting hazy answers that are very state-specific. But ultimately, the way to think of it is thus: any court proceedings that take place during pregnancy are focused on an entity that does not yet exist: a born child.  A father may be granted full custody of that entity, but not of the fetus, thanks to our viviparous reproduction†.  And it might seem strange that it hinges on a not-guaranteed outcome (birth), but then again, a pregnancy could well be intended to carry to term, but still end in tragedy as occasionally happens . . . that doesn't make it strange to start court proceedings that are based on the expectation that pregnancy will continue. I have my doubts that a father would be granted full, sole custody of a child that has yet to be born without a mitigating factor like you describe (drug use, untreated mental illness, etc.) . . . I'm assuming here, but my thought process is that in the absence of mitigating factors, courts encourage joint custody or some other form of sharing to keep both parents involved. † Interestingly enough, technology has to a certain extent made us able to explore oviparous reproduction, which carries its own even more complex legal battles over frozen embryos, surrogates who change their minds, etc..
Thank you for the response! My main interest is in the fact that the woman has so much control over whether or not this entity (born child) will exist or not. Basically she has enough power to completely nullify the court’s decision against her if the case is closed before the baby is born (highly unlikely, but interesting to think about). In this specific instance the mother committed fraud by allowing the divorce to finalize without full disclosure to the father about the conceived offspring. This apparently was enough for full custody of the child to the father. I have no idea if this is a real world qualification, but it sounds like it could be. I would hope that joint custody would be the target, however. Yes technology has blurred the lines quite quickly in a plethora of ways, making it hard for legislation to keep up. Many very interesting situations to ponder.

NOTE: Lifenews is a godawful source, but they were the only people that covered this fully and in a very rare case actually provided factual information. However, if there are any other sources that are more reputable, feel free to share them.
This is so frustrating as a childfree woman. It's infuriating that people value an embryo that is incapable of feeling pain more than women in need of healthcare services.
They also care more about punishing women for having sex more than they do about helping living, breathing women in need of healthcare services. Why else would they be in favor of teaching abstinence only and limiting people's ability to access actual sex education and reliable birth control? It has been known to raise the abortion rate, not lower it. This shows that it isn't about abortion at all with them, it is about punishing and controlling women though forced pregnancy, childbirth, and possibly maternal death. They do a very good job of making me even more childfree though, I refuse to put up with being treated as nothing but a broodmare, with less rights and value than even blastocysts. Why would I go through that bullshit, when I can prevent pregnancy through actual reliable contraceptive methods and get an abortion if those methods fail.
I agree wholeheartedly. I will fight for my reproductive rights.
What do you even mean by "reproductive rights"? The right to not have to take care of your offspring when it is already there because it is "incapable of feeling pain"?
You're seriously asking what reproductive rights are? Lol as in the right to not have to carry an unwanted pregnancy to term.
That's what I assumed, but the term "reproductive rights", by my definition of "reproduction", has little to do with a person's right to abort their child, so your use of such a term in such a way made little sense to me.
Well it's reproductive, and it's my right to get one if I wish so it is a reproductive right lol
No it isn't. Reproduction is the act by which a living being produces another member of its species. Abortion eliminates a member of the species and therefore does not involve reproduction and also does not stop it from occurring. The right to refuse to have sex is a reproductive right, but once you have already succeeded in having sex (regardless of whether or not you actually wanted to) it is no longer a "reproductive right" to exterminate the resulting human.
Ok, then it's just a right to do so.
(You probably know this, but you can ignore Nethefarious.  Pregnancy is, in fact, part of reproduction.)

Indeed. I'm glad you agree. Our right to not reproduce is quite different from our right to kill other humans, no matter how small, mentally challenged, dependent, or unfeeling they are. It's a pity how few people seem to understand this.
It is absurd to suggest that gestation and parturition are not components of reproduction.
They are components of "reproduction", if by this you mean the process by which an unborn child is brought into existence, grown to the point it can survive outside of it's mother, and then born, which is what most people mean by "reproduction" when they use the term in general speech. Technically, however, reproduction is "the natural process among organisms by which new individuals are generated and the species perpetuated", according to dictionary.com. Now, such a process cannot happen gradually since no living thing is truly a new individual unless it is able to perform all the basic life functions on its own. Since an embryo does perform all of these functions by itself inside its mother while receiving the nutrients it needs to do them from its mother, it is an independent organism by itself (while this doesn't necessarily show that the embryo is a person by itself, it does show that it is not an organ of its mother). So by the technical definition of "reproduction", abortion is not a reproductive right because reproduction is a process done by the parents and ends with conception, while gestation and parturition are done by the child and end with birth (you can say the mother does push the child out, but the child is the one who does the leaving).

I had read another article somewhere that cited the administration's claim of the majority of programs being shown to have little or no effect on teen pregnancy rates and did some investigation on my own, but I'd be very interested in reading or hearing something more in-depth on why the various programs might not have been effective (preferably from a neutral or pro-choice perspective . . . not into giving clicks to the others).
That's awful.
here is where this article was posted on the pro-life subreddit. There are quite a few comments on it already if you’d like to join the discussion
Thankfully it was one of the few times I did not get downvoted into oblivion.

That is exactly my experience when coming to the prochoice sub, but we should both know that our perceptions and the perceptions of those we encounter on both subs are biased and emotional about the issue. Here’s what we can do: when someone is misinformed, we correct them. When someone is hateful on the other side, we respond with respect. When someone is hateful on our side, we call them out. In fact, one of my most upvoted comments is on a prolife post where I called out a commenter for being disrespectful. Remember that the majority of both sides are respectful, its just the loudest ones that arent
Empathy, and, by extension, moral restrictions(including murder) only apply to beings which display the following characteristics:Consciousness (of objects and events external and/or internal to the being), and in particular the capacity to feel pain;Reasoning (the developed capacity to solve new and relatively complex problems);Self-motivated activity (activity which is relatively independent of genetic or direct external control).The capacity to communicate, messages of with an indefinite number of possible contents on indefinitely many possible topics.The presence of self-concepts and self-awareness.Within the womb, humans do not fit this criteria. Thus, the act itself is not inherently immoral for its direct malice. Instead, it can be argued that abortions are immoral due to their effects on the potential future. A life is ended before it starts.However, by this train of thought, the act of refraining from sex or using a condom could be seen as immoral, because it could have led to the creation of a sentient being. So if you turn down unprotected sex, you are in effect “killing” a person that would have otherwise existed in the same way an abortion does.If the creation of life was always a top priority, then wouldn’t it be moral to rape as many people as possible to produce the most children? In fact, by not having sex all the time you are denying life to potential people. Morally you would be responsible for donating eggs/sperm to be fertilized.With these examples, it is evident that preventing a sentient being from being created is NOT immoral. Any moral arguments that don’t deal with sentient, thinking beings, are null because morality derives its meaning from the interaction between sentient beings. This is why it IS moral to kill certain insects but not to kill intelligent mammals. Humans don’t have an innate moral ability due to their DNA. Rather, post-natal humans are sentient, thinking, intelligent beings, and therefore must be empathized with.Any possible counterarguments(or flaws in my argument) that pro-lifers often claim and how you refute them would be extremely welcome.
I think pro-lifers would generally reject your entire premise and argue that empathy and moral restrictions should be applied to all human beings because of their human-ness.
Yes we would, among other things. I’m hesitant to say anything at all cuz i don’t want to be flooded with downvotes, but I’ll just point 2 things out that i disagree with. First, morality is quite subjective, and people have many different sources for their morality. There’s no reason why other people should adopt your morality. When I argue my pro-life position I tend to steer clear of this argument. Second, it seems as though OP developed these moral tenets around his decision to be pro-choice rather than basing his decision to be pro-choice around these moral tenets.
My definition of morality may not be universal, but empathy is not possible for non-intelligent beings. Bear with me here for a second, this is NOT intended to be a personal attack or insult. If you have empathy for non-intelligent beings, that is an irregular mental condition(in fact, a it is a common symptom of autism, OCD, and aspergers). For example, would you find it valid for me to feel empathy for a chair?
I don’t feel attacked at all :) I would have to disagree with you though, but it may depend on when you think the unborn have value, because I can look at an image of an 8 week old embryo and think it looks like a tiny human and care about its well being, empathize with it. I think most people are like this, particularly parents. I don’t think empathy is the best way to define morality, however, because it may not be very consistent. Empathy also depends on evolution, which means the unborn stand no chance when it comes to empathy because we didn’t know much about the unborn until recently and couldnt have evolved any emotions towards them, but just the mother. Does evolution control morality? Many people could have more empathy for puppies than for humans, but they shouldn’t have the same legal protection. Many people have more empathy for helpless babies than their mothers, which is relevant to the abortion debate. Many could have more empathy for women than men, but they should be equally protected under the law. On the more extreme end, at one time the majority of Americans had more empathy for white people than all other races. I would also like to ask how you define an intelligent being, because I have empathy for animals, but I don’t think that indicates mental illness. Your example included one end of the spectrum, a chair, and i assume the other end would be a 20 year old human, but there’s a lot of gray area in between. I will admit that it is difficult to argue the morality of abortion because my morality comes from my Christian faith, which I can’t and won’t force onto another person.
Yeah, I just said that because "did you just imply i'm autistic" is a common response to that sort of comment on the internet I concede that it often isn't, and this is the main weakness in my argument. I like your point about puppies/babies. Just because you look cute shouldn't mean you are valued more under a moral code. When people assume low intelligence(like cattle), our "empathy meters" are often off leading to disasters like this. Animals are intelligent, and the more intelligent the animal, the more empathy we have. This is why people tend to have an empathy hierarchy like human>cat>fish>insect>chair. It seems to me that an unborn child would be quite low on this "intelligence ranking". Another interesting thing to think about is artificial intelligence. If a self-learning AI became more emotionally and logically intelligent than people, would it rank higher than us? Same for aliens. This is a theme in a lot of sci-fi: How much do we care about a non-human "person"? Personally, I believe I WOULD rank myself and other people below a more intelligent AI. Many may find this disgusting or wrong(maybe due to a biological loyalty to our species). In other words if something was WAY more intelligent than us, would it be moral for them to kill us like ants? Got a little offtopic, but its interesting to think about.
Have an upvote , polite well reasoned arguments are welcome on this sub!
I don't tend to go as far as you do on this line of thinking, but I definitely agree with the basic premise about empathy.  And it's not even a logic thing- I honestly cannot drum up any feelings for an embryo, because I know it doesn't have any feelings of its own.  Any sadness or anger I feel about abortion- if I feel any- is for the women who have to go through their own complex array of emotions in getting one. Like, miscarriage of a wanted baby is sad, but I've never felt sad for said fetus, and I daresay most folks are the same- they understand that they're sad for the parents.
A clarification question here: So at what time are you saying abortion should be permissible?
Do you mean how far into pregnancy? or do you mean under what circumstances should someone get an abortion? For the former, I believe that the embryo lacks human like consciousness until about 6 months into pregnancy(but even then the neural activity remains low until near birth) For the latter, I suppose abortion under any and all circumstances would be morally "permissible" but when someone SHOULD get an abortion is up to them personally. This is similar to how killing animals for food is always permissible, and it's a personal decision to be vegetarian or not.
Interesting. The scientific case I would put forward is similar. . Basically, it states that a human being is not formed till higher brain activity. As quoted by the JM Goldenring the original author of this idea: "The brain enables our body, our mind, our personality. The brain is the only unique and irreplaceable organ in the human body, as the orchestrator of all organ systems and the seat of personality. Thus, the presence or absence of brain life truly defines the presence or absence of human life in the medical sense. When viewed in this way, human life may be seen as a continuous spectrum between the onset of brain life in utero until the occurrence of brain death. “At any point, human tissue or organ systems may be present, but without the presence of a functional human brain, these do not constitute a 'human being', at least in a medical sense.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/4078859 Now at what point would we say the fetus has reached significant brain activity to be considered a human being so to say? Numerous Scientists have put it at around 28 to 32 week as this when the fetus develops significant brain function that differentiates us from animals. http://www.nytimes.com/1975/05/09/archives/fetal-brain-said-to-live-at-28-weeks-role-of-the-brain-studies.html http://articles.latimes.com/1990-03-19/local/me-476_1_brain-stem So basically based on this idea we can see that the fetus reaches the brain birth criteria to become a human being at around 28 to 31 weeks. Now if we look at Abortion Data we will find that abortions happening beyond 21 weeks represent less than 1.3% of abortions. I would wager that abortions happening in the 28-31 week range are literally non-existent and the abortions that do happen this far are almost always of the case where the mother's life is in danger, or they are medically necessary. https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/ss6410a1.htm http://reason.com/blog/2016/10/21/late-term-abortions-in-america-2016 My Problem with just using generic terms such as consciousness is that then it could enter you into Peter Singer territory where infanticide is being advocated for.
The characteristics you apply to valuable humans do not, in fact, constitute moral value. Simply applying those characteristics to humans outside the womb would've shown this quite easily. (eg. An unconscious human, a human who cannot communicate etc) It makes me wonder if you really thought this whole thing through. "We hold these truths to be self evident: that all men are created equal" Humans are valuable by default and your argument fails to show why unborn are not valuable.
Just to clarify, you think all the things you listed are required in order to feel empathy for another being? All of the things on your list are required? If so, there are a bunch of examples that may make the lines a bit blurry. People in comatose/vegetative states. They are not conscious and if they have an injury to their brain or spinal cord, may not feel any pain. Many would argue they still deserve empathy This one is kind of hazy. Could you go into more detail about what it means to solve new/relatively complex problems? Do infants/cognitively delayed folks qualify? This seems to get into a philosophical discussion of free-will. Is that your intention? Some would argue that every action in your life is pre-determined by genetics and environmental factors. Again, gets hazy at the ends of the spectrum. I also just don't really see why this is necessary to have on your list. Can you go into more detail? I don't think infants have this capacity. Maybe I'm being dense, but I think you need to expand on your bullets.
If the value of humans is determined by the above characteristics, then you're in dicey territory. Infants lack many of the above characteristics, as do people with severe mental deficiencies. Are they any less valuable than you and me? Even If I accept this premise, the logic doesn't hold. A fetus is conceived, and if left to its natural processes, will grow into a viable sentient human. It's not a potentially valuable human life, it is an incipient valuable human life. And I'm curious what restrictions you would put on abortion, if any at all?
.
That guy sounds like a dick, but I don't think the people in this subreddit are equipped to process the whole ex-boyfriend situation. This is mainly a subreddit about abortion policy and politics.
Donating sperm is much different than deciding to have a child and raise it, and to be tied to another person as co-parents FOREVER. Being a sperm donor is fairly generous, as it allows people that are choosing to have a child to do so. It is not a personal dig at you, it's not him wanting to parent, it is solely about helping others. Now, if you are saying that metaphorically, as in he got another woman pregnant by traditional means, and for waver reason, left, remember that she too has made a choice about having/keeping/placing this child. Her decision is right for her.
Greetings everyone. I recently read two articles that got me interested in the discussion regarding Pro-Life Democrats. This being a Pro-Choice Subreddit, leads me to assume that the majority of us are liberals/democrats, (if I am wrong, please correct me) due to them being the only option when it comes to supporting legalized abortion.However, I recently stumbled upon this article discussing the emergence of the Pro-Life Democrats.http://thehill.com/opinion/healthcare/374882-were-pro-life-democrats-and-we-want-to-protect-the-lives-of-the-born-and#.Wo7fAUQ0pXQ.twitterAnother article I read shows that the mainstream Democratic Party does not support Pro-Life Democrats in terms of endorsements or funding.https://www.politico.com/story/2018/02/25/lipinski-democrats-abortion-chicago-illinois-423431?cmpid=sfMy questions to all of you.Should we attempt to compromise with Pro-Life Democrats? If so, what would this look like?Do they have a room in the Democratic Party? Or is reproductive rights one of the key tenants of the party we can't compromise on.How would any of these choices affect voting demographics and outcomes for the future?I look forward to your responses.
Not a democrat (I'm a leftist) but for a party that already has issues with not standing up for anything, especially at a federal level...wobbling on abortion rights is a terrible move. Like others have said, it doesn't matter what a politicians personal views are, Democrats say they stand for social justice and bodily autonomy is fundamental to justice.
Nope. There are some who believe that if democrats shift to the right, they will recruit centrists, or republicans will shift to the left in compromise. That's not the game that the right is playing.
To me, the default way of looking at this is to see one issue and two sides. But I think it's actually two issues. We can debate the start of life forever and we may never know the answer. Does life start at conception, when there's a heartbeat, when the fetus is viable outside the womb, when it's born? In order to be pro-life, you have to define "life." The other issue is about women having the right to bodily autonomy and to make their own choices. Even if people are against abortion in their own lives, they can (and many do) believe that women should be allowed to make their own choices regarding their body/motherhood. I think that is what Democrats embrace - they're not pro-abortion, they're pro-choice. And more specifically, they're pro-safe abortions. We all know (or should know) what happens to women when abortion is illegal. They die. How is that pro-life?
Completely agree with you. Though personally, I believe science and philosophy support the Pro-Choice position when it comes to bodily autonomy and when life begins. But once again I am one of those "safe, legal and rare" proponents. I completely agree that we need to keep abortion legal.
No compromise on the right to abortion. But both sides should be able to support measures that reduce the need for abortions: sex education and universally available contraception to help prevent unwanted pregnancies. Financial programs to assist mothers and help remove economic reasons for abortion.
The issue is that the other side isn't really interested in any of those things. For example, Catholics, who make a huge bulk of the Pro-Life movement, contraception is a sin.
That’s why it’s a compromise.
It doesn't need to be. Contraception is not technically necessary, and is not 100% effective.
I don't think pro-choice organizations and lobbyists should compromise- I think demanding purity on the issue ought to be the way to maintain pressure on the party.  Kind of the same way I endorse the "free abortion on demand without apology" . . . I doubt it's an achievable goal (at least currently), but it's the stance we need to take in order to make sure the opposition doesn't pull them too far in the other direction because we opt for moderation. As to decisions the party itself makes, that's a little more iffy.  I understand that it's in our party's best interest to support a candidate who agrees with 80% of the platform if the alternative is losing to a Republican who agrees with none of our platform.  At the same time, though, supporting an anti-abortion candidate also signals to others that we're willing to help them and encourages them to run . . . which isn't great.  Not to mention that you don't want to see donations to the DCCC or whatever diminish because pro-choice donors see their money going to anti-abortion candidates. So I understand that it's not quite so clear-cut as others make it seem, but I also think people who are upset are right to feel so.
You brought up something I didn't consider. NARAL, CRR, NAF, Emily's List and more are huge Pro-Choice organizations that support the DNC. Not to mention, a lot of far left individuals who usually don't like the DNC, support the democratic party because of its stance on abortion. And you are right, it is a complex and iffy issue and that is why I started this thread to talk about it.
It doesn't surprise me. I lean slighty more towards the Democrat side especially on social issues but am not a Democrat or a Republican. I know I may get downvotes for this but I consider myself pro-life but I also don't know if standing in the way of abortions is the best way moving forward, especially considering what happens when it is illegal. I want to add that regardless of my personal beliefs I actively work on not judging others for their choice, as I would encourage other pro-lifers to do as well. I don't know their life, or what they were going through and my only job is to love others. I'm not sure (for most people) there really is a middle ground, when we are soley talking about abortion. A better compromise or at least middle ground is to focus on better sex education, as well as easy access to birth control. Focusing on the statistics of better access to bc and less unwanted pregnancies. Also focusing on the actual number of abortions preformed compared to the other medical services at planned parenthood. We could go around and around debating the mortality or when life starts, but I doubt it would go anywhere. I don't even know what kind of compromise could come other than  respecting each other even if we have different beliefs. I would assume most pro-life democrats and even at least some republicans would agree that birth control and easy access is a good thing.  So rather than fight if we focus our energy into something we agree on, then maybe we can see a change.
Libertarians, independents, anarchists... This is not a new concept -- there are those democrats who would not want abortions to happen, but would support the biological mothers extensively to ensure that their pregnancy is healthy and safe. I can't argue with wanting to support pregnant women to be fully cared for. Personally, I know that there always has to be that choice -- sometimes even with the best care, a woman is unable to deal with the physical and emotional stress that a pregnancy brings, or may have other issues that affect her ability to carry to term. I would not personally support taking anyone's bodily autonomy. So I am pro-choice, pro-child. And yes, sure there is room -- because that is what democracy is about...respecting one another's thoughts and beliefs.
Thank you for your comment. Could you maybe elaborate on how the majority of Libertarians feel about this? It seems with figureheads like Rand and Ron Paul being very pro-life, I would expect Libertarians to lean more towards being pro-life. Ayn Rand was pro-choice funnily enough. I agree. I would classify myself as one of the "safe, legal and rare" types over the "abortion on demand" group, but I think we should support reproductive rights unilaterally.
I actually never said the majority of libertarians (or anyone else) feel this way about abortions. I was simply pointing out that it is still possible to be in those categories and support abortion. Heck, a few Republicans do, for that matter. You had stated that Democrats were the only group that supported legal abortion, and asked to be corrected if wrong.
Some anti-Choice Democrats like Joe Manchin and Bob Casey are necessary evils. Some, like Dan Lipinski, should go.
This is just my opinion, but the way I see it, the Democrats shouldn't alienate anyone by default if there's an argument being made. Reasonable people can disagree about issues and it's important to hear them out on it, even if you ultimately end up finding their argument(s) unconvincing. I don't think it's helpful to frame the issue as "reproductive rights"when the liberal argument against abortion rights is that it really doesn't belong in the "reproductive rights" category to begin with in the way they might think access to contraception, education around sexuality/ending of "abstinence only" curriculum, etc. To me, that seems disingenuous when it comes to actual conversation and seems a bit like someone arguing in favor of armed robbery framing the conversation by saying it should be covered under "second amendment rights." I'm not putting the two on the same moral plane, but I think you should at least recognize that, to them, that's not what the conversation is about. Obviously you don't need to agree with them—and hey, you might actually change some minds—but it's important to not fall into the same narrow-mindedness that plagues the right-wing so much.
How does abortion not fall into reproductive rights?
"Reproductive rights" are the rights of individuals to decide whether to reproduce and have reproductive health. This may include an individual's right to plan a family, terminate a pregnancy, use contraceptives, learn about sex education in public schools, and gain access to reproductive health services. The U.S. Constitution does not explicitly mention a right to reproduce, however, the Supreme Court has recognized it as a personal right that is deemed "fundamental" and which extends to procreation (Skinner v. Oklahoma), contraception (Eisenstadt v. Baird), family relationships (Prince v. Massachusetts) and child rearing (Pierce v. Society of Sisters). Moreover, a person's right to privacy is expressed in the Fourteenth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution and was the subject of the precedent-setting case of Roe v. Wade. What other term do you suggest?
Right then, so I think your post perfectly illustrates my point. (note: I don't mean that in a bad or accusatory way)  I think the first disconnect here is that you're using legal precedents to support a claim that "pro-life liberals" are disputing on moral and ethical grounds, not legal consistency from previous opinions; clearly there are many cases in American history of legal decisions supporting immoral outcomes when we take a look at the past. Now I'm not saying you need to agree with them, but I am saying that I think it's important to note that their views on the matter stem far more from academia, ethical theory in particular, and that they're not exactly sold on the idea of a fetus not being a candidate member of society/moral agent/etc. so any notion of court precedence is not going to work on them. Clearly, the question of personhood or value is where there is disagreement is between the (mainstream) anti-abortion and (mainstream) pro-abortion liberals. I say "mainstream" because I think I'm safe in assuming (theoretically), that there aren't many of the opinion that even if the fetus were granted personhood, the right to euphemistically "terminate the pregnancy" still lies with the woman in question—obviously this position is much older and the antithesis to liberal ideology, so it mainly exists only on the far-right libertarians of the Ayn Rand order, so I do not want for it to be seen as me characterizing the proponents of the liberal pro-choice side to be members of that camp: obviously, this is the pro-choice board, not liberal board, but because the topic was about the Democratic party, I think that's a fair assumption (please correct me if I'm wrong in taking that as a granted). Quite frankly, I don't know—and again: I think this is unhelpful. If the discussion is on the topic of abortion, then perhaps we would be better off keeping the terms as such, because that's where the disagreement is. Anti-abortion and pro-abortion liberals don't find disagreement on any of the other parts of what you consider to be "reproductive rights," (for the most part) and I think the importance of that cannot be overstated. They do not take issue with reproductive rights as an idea, they take issue with one very specific issue that's been lumped in with it (keeping in mind the historical liberalism behind the pro-life movement especially). Treating abortion as a lefty or liberal view to hold is still a relatively recent phenomenon (really around the time of the Roe v Wade decision), so I believe the discussion would be best addressed seriously and not as dismissively as you've framed it, though I certainly don't think you did so intentionally or with malice. I'm not trying to attack your framing of the question, but I think it is a bit ahistorical to act as if they are the new kids on the (liberal) block and not the pro-choice advocates simply because of court decisions. In particular, because the progressive movement has, historically, challenged many decisions by the Supreme Court. All of this being said, you certainly don't have to agree with them on the issue and you likely may be able to change their mind; however, by framing the discussion as "reproductive rights" vs "anti-reproductive rights," I think you're likely to lose the minds of a lot of liberals on the other side of the discussion in the process. To use an analogy, it's sort of like if we're talking about the second amendment and the right to bear arms in the US and someone was to say and then some lifetime-NRA advocate began saying that the person saying it was Now obviously I've used quite an exaggeration to illustrate my point, but that's just for a bit of clarity and simplicity in an effort to explain myself a little better. Then of course the question of whether or not one should agree with pro-life liberals is an entirely separate issue, though one that is a lot of fun for discussion. For the sake of not getting side tracked though, I hope that can bring a bit more clarity to what I was trying to say.  Oh, and tl;dr anti-abortion vs pro-abortion or abortion as immoral vs abortion as a right etc. etc. The point being to remain honest in where the disagreement lies, and not to obfuscate with other issues.

"This bill does not prevent anyone from adopting" LIKE THAT'S LITERALLY WHAT IT DOES Ugh. It's just...kind of mind-blowing to me, the things people say and expect us to believe. I guess it shouldn't surprise me these days.
This is so sad. I know so many lesbians and gay couples who would make wonderful parents.
Children thrive in an environment where they are raised by a mother and father.
False. Recently a meta-analysis was published where Scientists looked at literature dating back from the 1990s to present on this issue. Scientists found that there NO DIFFERENCE, between Gay or Lesbian couples, compared with heterosexual parents. The study looked at an analytic sample of 19,430 publications. And from that drew an analysis from the variable and reputable questions with unique identifiers. They then found that the Majority of Scientific Literature is clear that there is no difference between Same-Sex couples and Hetero Sexual couples when it comes to parenting. https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2015/06/150615103946.htm Columbia University looked at 75 Different studies that look at the issue of same-sex parents. On review of a large body of research, pediatricians and other experts repeatedly come to the same conclusion: children raised by same-sex parents are no different from those raised by heterosexual parents. http://whatweknow.law.columbia.edu/topics/lgbt-equality/what-does-the-scholarly-research-say-about-the-wellbeing-of-children-with-gay-or-lesbian-parents/ In its 2004 endorsement of what is commonly referred to as the “no differences” theory, the American Psychological Association (APA) declared that “there is no scientific evidence that parenting effectiveness is related to parental sexual orientation: lesbian and gay parents are as likely as heterosexual parents to provide supportive and healthy environments for their children,” and “research has shown that the adjustment, development, and psychological well-being of children is unrelated to parental sexual orientation and that the children of lesbian and gay parents are as likely as those of heterosexual parents to flourish.”
Ok, some background. This guy is kind of thick headed. He posts stuff online and then bitches if I tell him something. For example, he posted the fake foreign Obama ID card and wanted me to provide proof it was fake. I provided the snopes link and then links to the original ID. Basically, he doesn’t like admitting he is wrong and I’m unfollowing him. Oh another example is that democrats shouldn’t own guns because this is a list of mass shootings by democrats going back to good ol’ Abe’s assassination. Never mind that I tried to explain cherry picking and that we could argue on the same principle that white men shouldn’t own guns due to mass shootings.Anyway, frustrated. Here is a link to his post:https://imgur.com/gallery/nZV8VHere are our comments:https://imgur.com/gallery/WBJ7qBasically defund PP and use the money towards armed guards in schools.
I know you can't argue with someone who doesn't want to hear yoo, but jfc, you can't stop reimbursing a healthcare provider for providing services to Medicaid utilizers. This is some of the dumbest shit, I swear.
Ignore the dumbass.
Literally a short sighted idiot. Move along.
PP profits 90 million a year. Why is the government giving them money?
There is a lot on the pro-choice side of the fence (I'm pro-life, so that's where I'm coming from) who say that the unborn aren't human. There are many who admit the unborn are human, yet still support abortion. And there are a lot who think that the unborn are human, but that doesn't matter because they are not persons. Is there a distinction between humans and persons? Why or why not?
I think they're human, as that refers to the DNA level. However, I do not believe an unborn fetus has moral standing. Moral standing, in ethics, being the status of an entity by virtue of which it is deserving of consideration in moral decision making. To ask if an entity has moral standing is to ask whether the well-being of that entity should be taken into account by others. I say no.
You're just going to say no with no justification?
Different people use different words to imply certain connotations- there's the biological taxonomy (i.e. we can analyze bloodstains on a piece of clothing to find out if the blood is human, canine, bovine, what have you) and then there's the grander debate on just what it is that makes us what we are. Those who oppose and support abortion often use the various words differently, which tends to muddy the waters when we talk to one another; it would behoove us all to be very clear about what we mean.
Depends on who you ask. You might find this informative https://youtu.be/GxM9BZeRrUI
Huh. I was expecting this video to be terrible and biased, but it turns out it was actually very unbiased and very broad in it's considerations. The only issue with it is that it, as a consequence of being unbiased, doesn't really come to any conclusions, and I'm not fully satisfied by any of the criteria for personality provided in this video.
Yes I think its worthwhile, I only recently discovered their little youtube talks
I would not argue that the fetus is a collection of cells, which if allowed to come to full maturity, could one day become a fully formed human. At the point that most abortions occur is during the embryonic period, when  cells begin to take on different functions. The brain, heart, lungs, internal organs and arms and legs begin to form. This embryonic mass is only something that has potential to become human. This mass becomes fully formed at about ten weeks of pregnancy. Most embryos that are aborted are aborted by week 9 of pregnancy. Once a fetus, growth and development are aimed at prepping for life on the outside. Most abortions, estimated 89 - 92% of them occur before the 13th week of development. This fetus is still not a fully formed human, and would not be viable outside of the carrier. This being typically becomes fully developed by week 24 of a pregnancy, but still would not survive outside of the womb. Most states do not allow abortion after 22 weeks, except in certain medical situations. The earliest born early deliveries usually happen around week 26, but even then, survival is considered a medical miracle and requires excessive intervention -- this baby is likely to grow up very challenged if not disabled. Intelligent design mandates that this embryonic to fetal to infant growth happen in a very structured and timed manner. Its best chance at human survival is to be fully grown. As an embryo or fetus then, these cells have no capability to survive on their own, think or act willfully, cause or create any change to its environment, and so forth, and for that reason, it may be composed of human cells, but is not a person.
I think it's a huge issue with semantics. Many people have different definitions of these things. Here are primarily my two views on this. We can either make a philosophical argument based on the right to life beginning at the onset of unique human brain activity or you could argue that the medical definition of a human being is based on the presence of unique human brain activity. It just depends how you wanna argue it.

ANY strict abortion law needs to be reformed. The UN has declared abortion to be a universal human right in the category of reproductive freedom.
It is a staple of the modern Pro-Life movement to hear that:"It is a scientific fact Life begins at conception"or "There is a scientific consensus that life begins at conception"or even "Every biology, embryology or medical textbook says that life begins at conception"I am just wondering if you guys can attest to or refute the veracity or accuracy of these statements.
It doesn't. Sperm cells are alive. Egg cells are alive. Fertilization isn't even a clear cut, single-moment event, it's a more drawn out process than most realize. Life began millions of years ago and since then has simply been continuing. The term conception is poorly defined and rarely used in scientific literature. Molecular biology of the cell is the go-to textbook for this kind of thing: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK26843/
I completely agree with you. Life itself doesn’t begin at conception. Life is a continuous thing that doesn’t stop and begin again; spontaneous generation has been disproven. The poorly worded phrase “life begins at conception” is supposed to mean that a new human begins at conception. That fertilization is the creation and beginning of a new human organism. What are your thoughts on this? Also just curious, are you scientifically or medically trained?
My PhD was in physics, so yes to scientific training, but not in this field.
Awesome. And I see that in the link you sent, it confirms that fertilization is the creation of a new organism, so that answers my question. Thanks
To be clear, that's an analytic statement, not a synthetic one.
Could you clarify the difference?
It's a statement about how we have defined fertilization and organism; it doesn't give any new or ethically significant information about the world. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Analytic%E2%80%93synthetic_distinction
And I’m okay with that haha. There are people who deny that and say that a ZEF isn’t an organism and fertilization isn’t the beginning of an organism.
Sure.  There are people who deny all sorts of things.
I don't see how the link supported the statement of a new human organism beginning at fertilization? Could you explain a bit?
Sure. The most obvious place is in the first paragraph when it says this: “Through fertilization, the egg and sperm are saved: the egg is activated to begin its developmental program, and the haploid nuclei of the two gametes come together to form the genome of a new diploid organism.”
Is this the criteria for when you feel a scientific human organism is? I have heard other definitions that say it is not. For example, some people would say an organism is an organized whole, the parts of which share a common life. An individual cell answers this description but it seems that the multiplying ball of cells of which the zygote consists does not. It is not yet an organized whole but a collection of individual organisms loosely held together by the jelly-like coating of the original ovum; a colony rather than an organism.
I’m a little confused by your first question, but I will answer your comment the best I can. I don’t have the word for word definition of an organism on me, but it is pretty straightforward and clearly defined in biology. I never have seen various definitions for it, so I would question your source(s). An organism is an individual member of a species. I wouldn’t disagree when you say “it’s a whole, the parts of which share a common life,” but that’s more of a description than a complete and accurate definition.For example, you are an organism and all of your organs are working together to make you function. The biological levels of organization are: organelle, cells, tissues, organs, organ systems, organisms, populations, communities, ecosystems, and biosphere. A “normal” individual cell is, in a sense, a whole and the organelles are the parts working together. Under your definition, this would classify as an organism, but that is incorrect and thus your “definition” is not complete. However, as a side note, it is important to keep in mind that there are some single-celled organisms. As I said earlier, the best way to define an organism would simply be an individual member of a specific species. The zygote is a whole and is an individual member of a species, thus it is an organism. Let’s talk about humans for a second. All the cells in our body are diploid, with the exception of gametes, or sex cells. The sperm and egg, two haploids, come together to form a new diploid organism. At fertilization, the diploid form of the cell is restored, only in a way distinct from both the mother and the father, and it is a new, unique, individual member of the species. The subsequent beings (zygote, embryo, fetus, child, adult) are that organism that was formed at fertilization. (Of course there are chimeras and twinning, but that is a discussion for another time.) A “normal” cell (e.g. a cell in a plant, a liver cell, a skin cell, etc. Not a single-called organism), is not an organism because it is not an individual member of a species. This cell isn’t an organism, but typically is part of what makes up an organism (ex. your skin cell). A zygote is not a collection of organisms, it as a whole is an organism. Is that what you were looking for? Does that answer your question?
My question was just basically how you define an individual human organism or a human being. Science is pretty varied in this aspect. For example, Life is not a state but an activity; the nature of the life of a living organism is indicated by the nature of its activity. That activity would be evident in the becoming present of new activities, or of new abilities giving the potentiality for new activities: not a change of activity such that some ability already latent begins to show itself, but a change which indicates that new abilities and therefore new potentialities have become present. So basically when it comes to defining when a fetus becomes a living human organism, therefore, is whether at any stage in the process of development there is any such evidence of a change of nature. The commencement of cellular differentiation is evidence that the embryo has now become organized, but there is no evidence from its activity to suggest that the life of this entity is full living human organism. Building the new body by cellular replication according to genetic instructions interacting with environmental factors is no more than the cellular activity which will continue to build and maintain and repair the body tissues for many years to come. It is not the activity we mean when we speak of a living human organism. Moving from this many scientists would suggest that the onset of unique human brain function is what makes a living collection of cells an individual human organism (Parviizi, et al,2 p 138, emphasis in original). https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S001002770000127X?via%3Dihub Without this brain activity, not only could there be no organization as a whole of a body as complex as the human one, but neither would there be any foundation for the more advanced activities of thought and reasoning which will commence when the brain which enables them has matured sufficiently in experience and structure. Experience in synthesizing, beginning at the simplest level, is a necessary preparation of the brain for thought. Neural functioning both organizes the new body and, as it grows more complex, will enable those mental activities which accord with our understanding of human life. The evidence from organization and from the commencement of new activities which give new abilities and potentialities, points to a change of nature when the new body begins to function as a whole, a change which enables the entity to meet the criteria of an living human organism.
Ok...I’m not meaning to be rude, but everything you just said was wrong. You say a whole lot about new abilities and potentialities in the beginning, but quite frankly, it seems like you pulled that out of thin air. Science may be varied on some matters, but certainly not on what is and what isn’t an organism. This is one of the most basic foundations of biology. One odd thing you did was trying to separate human beings from all other animals. When looking at things from a biological point of view and doing taxonomy, humans are just another species. Humans do not need to meet another set of criteria so to speak (as you laid out with your brain theory) in order to be classified as organisms. When a fertilization occurs in a dog, a new dog organism is formed. When fertilization occurs in a horse, a new horse organism is formed. When fertilization occurs in a human, a new human organism is formed. It is not necessary to have higher brain activity to be classified as an organism. As far as that quote you mentioned, I don’t have access to the full article for that link you sent. But I looked up that quote on my own and found this source: http://jme.bmj.com/content/31/1/48. Throughout literally the whole entire paper, they refer to the zygote and early embryo as an organism. There is only one quote, the one you mentioned, that makes it seems like possibly, just possibly, an organism begins at that specific brain activity... but that’s not what it’s saying. The wording is somewhat unclear and it does NOT explicitly say that it only begins to be an organism at said brain activity. If you look at literally any other source, it says a zygote, embryo, and fetus are organisms. Even “Trusted Adult” here admitted that “fertilization is the creation of a new organism” is an analytical statement, meaning that it’s true by definition. Also the quote that I brought up in the first place clearly stated that fertilization is the creation of a new organism. Literally every single biology website I have looked at says an embryo is an organism. Even Planned Parenthood’s own website says the embryo and fetus are organisms. So, I have just about everything everywhere, and you have one single quote that doesn’t even explicitly say it becomes an organism at that specific brain activity.  The fact that fertilization is the creation of a new organism is something that you cannot refute no matter how hard you try, because it is true by definition.

Any "organism" is a life-form, even if it is only one or two cells. A new "genome" means all new DNA which if sequenced would show a whole different person.
Oh great. Because skin cells and human tissue fit your criteria of what it means to be a "whole different person". They are 1. Singled celled entities and 2. have a unique genetic combination.
No they are your skin cells biologically. They are driven by your unique genome and will always show you genetically on paper.
I don't see how that is a factor here when they have their own unique combination. As I commented earlier. A unique genome is not required to form a human being (e.g. identical twins, or clones, or human parthenotes) and unique genomes often do not form human beings (e.g. mutated genomes of cancers or the modified genome of induced pluripotent stem cells). Unless we are willing to admit that melanomas are actually human beings because they have a different genome, and that a woman who is pregnant with her clone (or identical twin) is not actually pregnant with a human being, then this argument should be abandoned.
That's ridiculous, you are now grasping at straws here. Melanoma cells will never pop off your body and grow into another living thinking person. This is a silly argument.Twins are two separate humans with separate brains that share the same DNA.On to your hypothetical arguments. Human cloning is not currently in use and most countries have laws banning it as it is seen as unethical. Even with cloning or parthenogenesis (never found in humans so far) the cells are growing into a separate human body who will have it's own though and own body.

A purely genetic description of the human species does not describe a human being. A human being represents a whole other level of organization, as distinct from a simple embryo as an embryo is distinct from an egg and sperm. It is the dynamics between genes and environment that make a human being.
It is living human tissue. It is genetically individual.  If left to follow it own path it will eventually interact with the environment. Destroying that tissue before it is "conscious" is still the destruction of a human life.
Under your perspective, you are saying that a human being exists at the moment when haploid human gametes fuse into a fertilized diploid human egg. Saying life begins at conception/fertilization basically means that a single cell is, in fact, a human being. There is a reason not a single scientific organization supports this idea. Sometime in the not very distant future, probably in our quest to understand cancer, we will discover the mechanisms for unlocking the genetic code which prevents unchecked cell division. Since every single human cell contains the full genetic information of every other cell, it will become possible to take a skin cell and cause it to divide and differentiate into any desired organ, or even into a complete human being, genetically identical to the donor. The process is called 'cloning'. Will we then say that every skin cell is a human being? Rather should we not say that both zygotes and skin cells represent potential human beings with differing probabilities of actually becoming a full human? Valuing the point of conception is an unreasonable scientific position, it should be realized that one is putting a premium on is a potential and probability for humanness, and that it is not necessarily true that a fertilized egg is, in fact, a full human being at conception.
It is not. The paper above clearly states a new organism is present at this point. Destroying that organism before it can become it's full self is immoral. This is irrelevant and way off in to the hypothetical.  I don't support unnatural cloning of new humans, at least when there are so many natural humans that we need to worry about first. Most countries have bans on cloning humans (as they should). This would probably never happen and shouldn't in my opinion.
Med student here, a few months away from graduation. I agree completely with /u/banoffiemango. Sperm cells and egg cells are already alive, so life is already in existence before fertilization. When we take antibiotics, are we killing life? Sure. Same thing happens every month when a woman ovulates and the egg isn't fertilized. None of that is thought to be morally wrong. So why would abortion be any different?
the prolife response would be that it is only after fertlzation that the organism has a complete and unique genetic key.  So while the egg and sperm are undoubtedly living, “life” only begins after the union of the two.
An egg or sperm alone will never devide or grow into another human being, they will only ever decay. A zygot is living growing human tissue that has it's own DNA that is genetically individual from both parents' clone cells and divides on its own. Genetically speaking, the zygote is a different organism from the mother or father.
Life doesn't come from non-life. A sperm or an egg is not inanimate matter. The beginning of life is to be found many thousands or millions of years in the past.
I think life technically begins at conception, but a unique organism doesn't have value just because it exists. Unless you believe in souls or something, there is zero reason to give something that can't feel pain any moral consideration.
Life is a vague term. We do not treat all life the same otherwise killing an insect would mean life in prison. A plant is not viewed the same as humans. In general, life is a vague term and most pro-lifers seem to like hunting and eating food. So I argue humanity/human is different from life. We have a term brain dead. The person isn’t there anymore. Their humanity is gone. Their heart probably is beating along but it isn’t there mentally. Remember Terry Schiavo? Her brain was smaller and worse off than expected. Reflexes are part of the brain stem along with respiration/heart beat. We also are creating devices that mean the heart doesn’t have to beat. ECMO bypasses the heart/lungs to give it a rest/boost and circulates the blood/oxygenates it. LVADs circulate the blood for the left ventricule and you may not have a palpable pulse.
Before you can say when, you have to first define "life".
I would define life as an individual living human being.
Then "life" is the wrong word to use: just say what you mean. Not that it will provide clarity: because what exactly do you mean by "individual human being"? But, at least it would be a step in the right direction. Hopefully, this will help you realize that the issue is not a medical/scientific one at all. For instance, if someone says that a certain type of brain activity is representative of "individual human life", then a scientist could tell you when that begins in the fetus; but, the criterion itself is a philosophical one.
While your idea holds some merit. I would argue there are such cases where we can make scientifically informed and medical claims. Let's talk the brain activity idea you mentioned. As quoted by the JM Goldenring the original author of this idea: "The brain enables our body, our mind, our personality. The brain is the only unique and irreplaceable organ in the human body, as the orchestrator of all organ systems and the seat of personality. Thus, the presence or absence of brain life truly defines the presence or absence of human life in the medical sense. When viewed in this way, human life may be seen as a continuous spectrum between the onset of brain life in utero until the occurrence of brain death. “At any point, human tissue or organ systems may be present, but without the presence of a functional human brain, these do not constitute a 'human being', at least in a medical sense.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/4078859 I think you could provide scientific and medical evidence for this point.
What about things that are alive that aren't human?
This debate is talking about Abortion. So the subject is limited to living individual human beings.
Feel free to ignore this as I'm not part of the demographic you sought, and this is not a negative thing in any way, I am genuinely curious, but I was wondering why this is still part of the dialogue surrounding the choice debate, as I was under the impression that we'd moved past it being a stark "life or death" issue and more of an issue of bodily autonomy and whether it's permissible to terminate a fetus who's violating someone's rights by inhabiting them. I just never hear this in other discussions about the decision to terminate a developing human (want to kill someone who has kidnapped you in order to free yourself? let's address their being alive, not the threat they pose to you. You want to kill an active shooter to minimize the overall death count? Let's discuss their being a living human entity first) like I just thought it was a given that they are alive and that the issue is more of a, how much does someone have to infringe upon one's right to bodily autonomy before it's okay to violate their right to life kind of thing. Basically I'm wondering why this is in a sub about being pro-choice.
Are you gonna post this in r/prolife too?
We kind of already know what they are going to say. And the only medical professional I know there is the moderator.
You already know what people here will say but you posted it anyway. You won't know till you ask.
Actually, I don't. There are many different views here and many individuals here of varying education and I just wanted to see what peoples opinions are.
What would be a good deductive syllogism to represent pro-choice positions?For example, here's how one might go:P1) A mother has the right to remove unwanted guests from her body/property with the use of deadly force.P2) The unborn is inside the mother's body.C1) Therefore, the mother has the right to remove the unborn from her body with the use of deadly force if she doesn't want it.P3) Abortion is the use of deadly force to remove the unborn from the mother's body.C2) Therefore, a mother has the right to an abortion.What are some other formal arguments that may articulate some pro-choice views?
Maybe not what you are looking for, but I do recall reading a Pro-Choice argument based on the idea of fetal personhood. It is in the form of a Hypothetical Syllogism. It logically follows as so: P1) If the right to life is based on uniquely human brain activity, then abortion is permissible till uniquely human brain activity is present. P2) If abortion is permissible till uniquely human brain activity is present, then abortion is permissible until 28-32 weeks. C1) Therefore, if the right to life is based on uniquely human brain activity than abortion is permissible until 28-32 weeks.
This is pretty good. It could be further broken down to rights derived from personhood and personhood derived from uniquely human brain activity with more syllogisms.
P1) If the right to life is based on uniquely human brain activity, then all human beings in comas would lack the right to life. P2) All human beings in comas do not lack the right to life. C1) Therefore, the right to life is not based on uniquely human brain activity.
Your whole syllogism falls apart when the evidence shows us that people in comas still have this unique level of brain activity that is present at 28-32 weeks as a developing fetus. While it is not able to be utilized, it is still there and present and thus the human being in a coma still has value under my argument.
What brain activity specifically are you referring to? And why does this constitute value?
This sounds like a homework question.
Haha, it's just easier to understand arguments when they're formatted in this manner.
Erase “mother” and change to “woman,” which gives your question and responses much less obvious bias.
The syllogism was just a hypothetical, could you perhaps explain how using "mother" is obvious bias?
Using the term mother rather than woman is implying that any woman who has conceived is therefore relegated to the task of motherhood, and that the fetus conceived is perceived to be a "baby". Many women can conceive -- but that takes no special skill to achieve. To be a mother, to consciously choose to parent, is a different situation. Any woman that conceives is not instantaneously mother to a human child. She is just someone who has conceived, but must put forth the effort to actually become a mother. Some pro-lifers or religious groups assign the title of mother to any pregnant woman -- it can underscore the implied "guilt" of abortion. However, lots of women conceive and miscarry before they ever know they are pregnant. A biological act (of conception) is not equal to what it takes to be a parent. Some women, who have accepted and wanted their pregnancies, may choose to refer to herself as "mother" if she miscarries, which is a way of coping with grief after losing a wanted and chosen pregnancy. Foster parents like myself, and adoptive parents, have long known that pregnancy alone does not make one a mother. Mother is an active term, like love, or struggle, or hug. Women who have conceived and choose not to carry or keep their child may not even desire to acknowledge the term. Can you see the bias more clearly, or am I missing the mark?
This is pretty weak reasoning tbh. You might as well try arguing that men can be mothers and women can be fathers and that it’s sexist to assume any of these categories imply male or female persons because sex =/= gender. At best you might be able to get away with “child bearer,” “pregnant person,” or “egg/uterus donor/provider,” but at that point you’re just dehumanizing the female parent (woman) in a way that’s bound to turn a whole bunch of people off from listening to your reasoning. “Mother” is fine. [EDIT: The user is correct and I stand corrected. “Mother” implies the presupposition “fetus = child,” which is false. A better term might be “conceiver,” or “female conceiver.”]
Not every woman who becomes pregnant becomes a mother, or even wants to be one. It's well reasoned in this arena particularly, that there are many women who are choosing not to be a mother at this time. And again, mother implies someone who intends to carry a fetus to term, and deliver an infant. Women choosing abortions do not choose that.
I looked back at the syllogism. I see your point. You’re correct and I stand corrected. “Mother” implies the presupposition “fetus = child,” which is false. A better term might be “conceiver,” or “female conceiver.” Thank you for clarifying. It’s not every day someone successfully explains to me why I am wrong. Have fantastic day! Cheers.
I am using the definition of mother as a female who has produced offspring. I suppose 'woman' could've worked fine for the context, but it is true that in conceiving, a mother has produced another human.
It is not "produced" until it is born, when and if it is born. I've looked at your post history and see that you believe otherwise and like to argue about when life begins, but that is not really the point here and would be tangential. And again, she must choose to be a mother, versus someone who has once conceived.
This is how I’d do it. P1) If a an entity is not a person then it is not wrong to destroy it. P2) A fetus is not a person. C1) Therefore it is not wrong to destroy a fetus. P3) If it is wrong to get/perform an abortion then it must be wrong to destroy a fetus. P4) It is not wrong to destroy a fetus. C2) Therefore it is not wrong to get/perform an abortion.
You’ve never seen a fetus, I take it. (Looking at p2)
No, you just don't know what a "person" or "personhood" is because you've never thought deeply and/or critically about it. This is technically a strawman, but it's close enough to illustrate the point I'm trying to get at.
Please tell me where you can use deadly force and shoot a toddler walking on your property? Nice try though, moron.The fact that you idiots have to peddle your side as pro choice (the opposite of life is not choice, assholes) and come to the internet for advice should be proof that your argument is shit and immoral no matter how hard you try and polish it.
I'd disagree with P1. You don't get to remove unwanted guests. You get to remove uninvited guests. You don't get to shoot crazy uncle Larry because he's irritating you at your house party if you also invited him (regardless of your reasons for inviting him). Likewise you don't get to remove the unborn if you invited it into your body (sex).

It seems to me that the only argument for redefining “person” to include the unborn would be to give the unborn the right to life, and therefore end abortion.   But this argument begs the question.  It says that abortion should be banned because the unborn have the right to life, and the unborn have the right to life because the unborn are persons.  But the reason the unborn are (i.e. should be) persons is because abortion should be banned.  The argument is completely circular.
It’s not circular, here’s the break: abortion should be banned is not the reason the unborn are persons. Abortion should be banned is why we should legally define them as persons. The legal definition doesn’t change their personhood, but it officially and legally recognizes it. Therefore, abortion should be banned because the unborn have the right to life, and the unborn have the right to life because the unborn are persons. The reason the unborn should be defined as persons is because abortion should be banned. This is a more accurate way of stating our position, in your style.
let’s make: A “abortion should be banned” B “the unborn have the right to life” C “the unborn are persons” Your three propositions are represented by B -> A, C -> B, A -> C so A implies C, C implies B, and B implies A (which, in turn, implies C again.) If you looked up “circular argument” in the dictionary, you might find what you just said as an example.
Are you ignoring what I’m saying or did you just miss it? The unborn BEING persons and the unborn BEING LEGALLY DEFINED AS persons are 2 different things. Whether or not the law recognizes it, the unborn are persons, but abortion will only be made illegal if the law recognizes them as such. There are 4 propositions here.
But we are talking about the law and “person” is a legal term.  For purposes of a discussion concerning the legality of abortion, The unborn are persons if and only if the unborn are persons under the law.
Person is not just a legal term. It is also a philosophical term, which is one definition of “persons” that I use in my 4 propositions, the other being the legal term. If you are referring to a discussion about what the law states, then you’d be right in saying we only need the legal term, but we are talking about what the law should be and what should potentially change in the law
And is there any reason why the law should reflect the unborn as persons other than to recognize their right to life and thus ban abortion?
Fellow Pro choicers, what do you think of the argument that women who have abortions are " still mothers" because the embryo was their child? Their argument is that banning abortion does not force motherhood on women because once a woman has her egg fertilized, she is a mother whether she wants to be or not. So women who have abortions are mothers regardless. What would your response to this be? If you have had an abortion yourself, how would you respond to this?
Not a baby yet. Doesn't count. The end.
How would you argue with them that the embryo is not a human baby?
The fact that the majority of the scientific community doesn't agree with the fact that a zygote is the same as a human baby? Pro-life supporters push the narrative "the second there is conception you have a human baby" pretty hard. Sadly it is not supported by science nor the law.
What the scientific community and/or the law thinks is irrelevant to what the science actually tells us. The unborn, from the moment of conception, is a human being. It contains human DNA and meets all criteria for a living organism. If you only define a baby as a young born human being, then obviously the unborn is not a baby. But it's still a young human being.
Could I have a source for this? Because I would argue otherwise. Mere possession of the genetic material for a future human being does not make a human being. The developing embryo that becomes a fetus that becomes a baby is the product of a dynamic interaction with its environment in the womb, it's postnatal experiences and a host of other factors. A purely genetic description of the human species does not describe a human being. A human being represents a whole other level of organization, as distinct from a simple embryo as an embryo is distinct from an egg and sperm. It is the dynamics between genes and environment that make a human being.
You beg the question in assessing the genetic information as "for a future human being." Obviously, if that's what it is, then one who possesses it isn't human because that humanity is in the future. In arguing for the nonhumanity of the unborn, you assume its nonhumanity. It is not DNA that is for a future human, it is human DNA. The DNA at conception is no different from the DNA at birth, and genetics is how we best identify any organism's species. If the unborn, which contains human DNA is not human, then what kind of organism is it? There's no such species as "potential homo sapien" just as there is no such thing as a "potential gallus gallus domesticus". I'm not sure I understand your definition of a human being, so could you list when human life begins, according to your definition?
I would disagree. A unique genome is not required to form a human being (e.g. identical twins, or clones, or human parthenotes) and unique genomes often do not form human beings (e.g. mutated genomes of cancers or the modified genome of induced pluripotent stem cells). Unless we are willing to admit that melanomas are actually human beings because they have a different genome, and that a woman who is pregnant with her clone (or identical twin) is not actually pregnant with a human being, then this argument should be abandoned. The fact that an embryo has human DNA does not prove it is a living human being because human tissue samples have human DNA and human tissue samples are not individual human beings. The brain is the only unique and irreplaceable organ in the human body, as the orchestrator of all organ systems and the seat of personality. Thus, the presence or absence of brain life truly defines the presence or absence of human life in the medical sense.
You do realize a fetus is classified as a “zygote” for like a day, right. That’s not what you people argue for so your statement is invalid, unless you push only for abortions on day zero.
"Science" is still out on when "personhood" begins.
There's still a debate. Whether or not a 2-day old zygote is a person is not part of that discussion because it's not.
"In the minds of many confused people, a single-celled human zygote, which has no nerves and cannot suffer, is infinitely sacred, simply because it is 'human'. No other cells enjoy this exalted status" Richard Dawkins
And there are scientists who deny global warming, just because a few people hold an opinion doesn't make that the agreed upon scientific consensus.You may feel like it isn't right, but as of now both the majority of the science community and the law proclaim the same thing: a zygote isn't the same as a human being.I'm not saying that it's impossible that our view on this won't ever change, maybe someday we'll invent a new technology that changes our knowledge of the early stages of development and we'll maybe have to reconsider our stance on abortion, but as of now, the conclusion is clear. You may also argue that simply the potential of a new human being warrants it the same protections as an actual person, but I (and many others) simply disagree with you there. But that's not a debate based on facts but simply a debate based on morals and personal opinions.
I think you meant this for another contributor, I am prochoice
Pro-Choicer here, but I am curious. Could I have a source for this statement? Now for the law, but for the scientific community part.
No other cells besides the zygote are genetically individual from the parent cells.
So? Please explain why that makes it special
It can become a sentient human. Unlike sperm cells and ova which are just genetic "clone cells" of the parents and never devide or grow.
Exactly it can become sentient, it doesn't actually have that ability. Where the pregnant women does.

If a “human zygote” is not human, then what is it? If someone set one of these “not humans” on the ground would you be able to step on it or smash it with a fly swatter? Who says it’s not human? You? What if one day you decide your three year old human isn’t human because it can’t survive on it’s own or outside of your house and you don’t want to be a parent. Can you kill your three year old? Should you be able to? Babies are humans whether they’re unborn or born. You people are unbelievable.
She is a conceiver. Foster parents like myself, and adoptive parents, too, have long said that it takes a great deal more to be a "mother" than the simple act of conception alone, which it takes no special skill to achieve. Although an embryo is a collection of cells which if matured would create a baby, the biological conceiver has opted not to carry those cells to birth. Even then, a biological conceiver can still choose not to be a "mother" at the point of birth.
I think it’s an argument that tries to sway people by inducing guilty emotions. Anyway, whether or not banning abortion forces motherhood on a woman, it certainly forces pregnancy on her, which is what’s at the heart of the bodily autonomy argument.
I don't believe the fetus meets the criteria of personhood and therefore it is not what we consider a "born child" or a "dead baby". By this logic, masturbation would make me the murderer of millions of dead persons.
I have a sincere question. What about a woman who miscarried and considers herself a mother? Is she just lying to herself? Did she not actually lose a baby?   Not looking for a debate, but I hope you do see the difference between a sperm cell and a fetus
I know women who have experienced miscarriages and call themselves mothers. I know women who have had miscarriages and DON'T call themselves mothers. I know women who have donated eggs to infertile couples so they can have children and they don't consider themselves mothers either. it is up to the individual whether or not they label themselves as such. NO ONE has the right to dictate to someone else how to view their reproductive choices.
Ah ok I see. So would you say the same goes for abortion which would kind of answer your own question.  If she wants to call herself a mother, she is. If not, then she’s not. She can decide for herself
agreed. it is not my place to dictate to someone how to view their situation.
Have miscarried. Here’s my take. For me, I consider the clump of cells my child because it’s a wanted pregnancy. I know it’s not a person yet as anything can happen but I intentionally try to bond with it because I get severely violently ill multiple times a day when pregnant. Without inducing an emotional bond, I would absolutely consider terminating because of just how sick I get (I lost 10% of my body weight in 6 weeks). I feel that before viability, the bundle of cells is to be viewed how the carrying individual wants to see it. If it’s wanted and anticipated, they may view it as a baby or a clump of cells. If it’s not wanted, it may be viewed as a baby or a clump of cells. It’s not for me to choose who another woman defines their motherhood. I feel it’s a disservice to call myself a mother  simply because I conceived. Simply conceiving does not make me a mother. Others may define that differently for themselves as well. Everything is subjective. I mean, it doesn’t even really look human for weeks anyway. I still loved the little seedling but it was not a person. My baby, yes, but not a person. Don’t forget,  an embryo =/= zygote =/= fetus either. Everyone loves to say “fetus” but it’s not even considered a fetus until, I believe, the twelfth week. And something like 90% of abortions are prior to 12 weeks, so it’s not even a fetus yet.
I understand. Thanks for sharing your point of view. Personally, I would disagree because I don’t think someone gets to decide if it’s a baby or clump of cells or anything else just based on how they feel about it. That seems too subjective and inaccurate to me. But I’m not looking for a debate, I just wanted to hear other people’s point of view, so thank you. And I believe it changes from an embryo to a fetus at 8 weeks. In a sense an embryo and fetus are the same as they are both unborn developing human organisms, just a few weeks apart. The reason they separate it into embryo and fetus is because during the embryonic stage is when the organs and other structures are being formed and coming into place. By 8 weeks, almost all of the organs and structures (structures being hands, toes, mouth, etc.) are already in the baby (if you wanna call it a baby), and after that it’s just working on growing bigger and developing rather than forming more structures. Hopefully the way I explained that makes sense. Regardless, I don’t think the name we call it by is all that important because it’s still the same “thing,” the same being, the whole time. Thanks again for responding to my comment.
The vast majority of the pro-life vs pro-choice argument is subjective?? I mean, I’m not gonna tell a super early pregnant woman that it’s “just a clump of cells” but I’m also not gonna tell someone who wants an abortion “no that a baby”. Context matters and 90% of human existence is subjective.
There is a lot of subjectivism involved in the abortion debate, agreed. But we should always strive to use objective facts. Context does matter, but the unborn ZEF is scientifically and factually categorized as something and we should try to go off of that rather than “how we feel” about it. Get what I’m saying?
Categorized as “something”? What does that even mean? I mean, going off facts alone - abortion is extremely safe, bodily autonomy is extremely important in the medical field, and there’s no real science backed reason to ban or outlaw it. In fact, it doesn’t reduce the number of abortions when it’s banned, it only ups maternal death. Factually, abortion is a necessary medical procedure that should be between a patient and her doctor. So why is there even a debate then? Oh, right, because others get butt hurt about it because feelings, when it has nothing to do with them.  The interesting thing is you have zero defenses. You basically were like “it has organs so it’s a baby” and that’s just simply not how being a human is defined in any way, shape, or form. There’s no sentience at 8 weeks. Each comment you’ve left has just solidified that either you’re here just to poke at people and/ you don’t really have anything to say.
When I said “categorized as something” I meant it’s either categorized as a human organism or it’s not, it’s either categorized as s human being or it’s not, it’s either living or it’s not, etc. It’s not a clump of cells just because you feel like it or a baby if you feel like it. It is already factually and scientifically defined or “categorized” and we should go off those facts rather than “what we feel like.” I know that abortion is safe, I know that bodily autonomy is important, I know the effects of abortion restrictions. That’s all irrelevant to the original discussion. I did NOT come here for a debate about abortion and I made that clear when I first commented, until you came here getting angry at me for no reason lol. “Factually, abortion is a necessary medical procedure that should be between a patient and her doctor.” The part about how abortion should be between a patient and a doctor is more of an opinion actually. You cannot use “should” and “factually” in the same sentence because that delegitimizes what facts are. Nice job strawmanning it up. I never said that it is a baby because it has organs. As far as I can remember in this comment thread (I can’t go back and look at my previous comments right now), I haven’t even tried to make an argument that an embryo/fetus is a baby. I simply laid out some fetal development facts and explained why scientists separate it into the embryonic and fetal stages, because you made a big deal about the difference between an embryo and a fetus. Again, I never said that having organs is what makes you a person. As I said in my first comment, I didn’t come here to debate. Even in my comment with you, I wasn’t debating you. So I’m not really sure why you’re trying to argue with me lol.
The mother places her emotion on the potential value that the fetus has. She values what the fetus is potentially going to become. She values and is upset at the potential motherhood and moments she will have. She is fully entitled to be upset at this and should be given appropriate care and resources. But her mourning at the potential does not change the facts that there is a difference between a fetus and a born baby.
I never said a fetus is the same as a born baby. Clearly a fetus is different than a born baby
Many women who are sexually activity will experience an early miscarriage before they realise they are pregnant. Are they Mother’s ? It depends if you view an embryo as a baby
A dead baby is a hell of a lot less hassle than a live one.
Ask them what the difference is between a “mother” and a “mother-to-be”
they would say you are just arguing semantics.
Well if their position is that "banning abortion does not force motherhood on women because once a woman has her egg fertilized, she is a mother whether she wants to be or not," you can say that they are just arguing semantics as well. The fact is that the phrase "mother-to-be" exists; people use it, and when it is used, people comprehend its meaning.  Therefore, it must have some semantic significance - ask them what that semantic significance must be.
if you care to answer, what would be your personal response to someone who says this? how would you react to an anti choice activist insisting that women who abort are mothers?
It really is an argument about semantics, and they are going to utilize word meanings that best supports their prolife position.  They aren’t mothers, they are mothers-to-be.  If they can’t accept this then need to explain what the term “mother-to-be” really means.

sorry for your pain. and good luck to you.
I can just imagine saying to a woman who miscarried at 2 or 3 months, that she is the mother of a dead baby. That would go down really well.
i know women who have miscarried who consider themselves to be mothers, and I know women who have miscarried who don't. it is a personal choice and only the pregnant individual has the right to determine what the reality of the situation is.
Exactly. So she may think of herself as a mother. "Oh, you're the mother of a DEAD BABY".
But i have honestly gotten into debates with anti choicers who INSIST that the woman in question has no choice but to think of herself as a mother at fertilization. they demand that the embryo is in fact her child and nothing can change her status just because she doesn't want to be a mom.

This is already on here.
Yeah, by u/instaconfused27
Awful
My father is pro-forced-birth. He thinks that if a woman accidentally gets pregnant (even if she used protection, but it failed) she should be forced to have the child, and she could either give it up for adoption, or raise it herself. He has a fetus > woman stance.I'm starting to be convinced that adoption is not really a good alternative for abortion (of course, the woman COULD put the child up for adoption if she wanted, but it would also be her right to abort. Don't get me wrong, I wish more people would adopt a child).
Because you can’t force a woman to risk her life to carry a pregnancy and give birth. Simple. He has absolutely no right to tell a woman what to do with her body. Honestly I couldn’t even have a relationship with a person like that
He didn't exactly say "forced" but isn't that what "pro-life" is about?
He literally wants to force women to give birth. Pro life is forced birth.
It impinges on  a women's, bodily autonomy. Pregnancy and birth have numerous side effects and [complications] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Complications_of_pregnancy), why force a person to endure them
Complications of pregnancy Complications of pregnancy are health problems that are caused by pregnancy. In the immediate postpartum period, 87% to 94% of women report at least one health problem. Long term health problems (persisting after 6 months postpartum) are reported by 31% of women. Severe complications of pregnancy are present in 1.6% of mothers in the US and in 1.5% of mothers in Canada. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source | ^Donate ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
Because a person depends on them. If they truly intend to have sex and become pregnant as a result (regardless of whether or not that was actually their intention) they are at least partially responsible for the creation of a unique human being.
That's your opinion, thankfully for women most developed nations have legal abortion.
And birth control, which he also thinks should be illegal. Apparently people are supposed to only ever have sex when they want a baby, I think most married couples and especially childfree people will disagree with him. Though he is an indoctrinated Catholic schoolboy, so it isn't a surprise he comes up with such outlandish, unpopular ideas.
I do not make my opinions baseless, fellow human. A person who has sex and realizes they could become pregnant as a result must be prepared for that possibility, just as they must be prepared for the consequences of anything else they do. If the unborn are people then killing them is not a viable solution to the problem.
The unborn are not at base blanket value equal to living, thinking people. If there was a fire and you had a choice between saving a clump of cells in a tube and saving an adult woman, you would choose the adult woman every time if you have any moral sensibility. And then, if we applied your culpability logic here to every risk we take in life, it would be pretty ridiculous. Someone gets horribly injured in a car crash and a surgery could save their life? No surgery for you, you should have thought about that before you chose to drive. When you force a person to carry a pregnancy to term, you are forcing them to risk their life without their consent. People don't consent to being subjected to completely avoidable outcomes when they take a risk.
Yes we would choose the adult woman, but not because it is the morally better option. This situation is like choosing between saving an unconscious, newborn infant and a trapped and screaming adult woman. We are inclined to protect fully grown humans more because it is our instinct to, and the death of the woman will likely have more severe consequences. But I can't see how you could morally condone refusing to save the infant (or the embryo in the tube) if there was only a risk that the adult woman might get singed. This situation does not resemble mine at all. Of course we can't refuse him care (even if it is bothersome and expensive for us to do so). But we can't, say, kill someone who has mental disabilities and harvest his organs in order to save our dude who crashed his car. Likewise, we cannot kill the unborn child for the sake of the mother's convenience. Becoming pregnant is even more deliberate than crashing your car (even if you use birth control) and is (usually) less life threatening than a car accident that leaves you with organ failure. If the unborn are people then killing them is still not a viable solution to the problem.
Here you are completely minimizing the risk that pregnancy causes not only to the life of the pregnant person but also their financial and emotional stability/quality of life in various circumstances. If you think it's comparable to being "singed" then you honestly need to do more reading on the risks associated with pregnancy for all types of people. "Convenience", here again you are totally minimizing the impact of pregnancy and you flat don't understand the ramifications. You may believe that the life of a fetus is worth as much or more than the life of a human, and I think that's a matter of religion so I'm not going to be able to argue facts with you because that's just a belief you hold on faith, but it doesn't follow that it's the pregnant person's fault that they got pregnant without intending to any more than a miscarriage would be their fault. It just doesn't make any sense to hold them culpable, so whatever body is forcing a pregnancy to continue should be totally culpable for the consequences the woman or the unwanted future child experiences. Who's going to pay for all the medical bills? Who is going to be responsible if the woman dies or is damaged by pregnancy and childbirth? Who is going to secure funds for her to live on when she can't work? Who is going to make sure she doesn't commit suicide or lapse into depressive conditions that disable her if she had to go off medication to continue with the pregnancy? Etc. Etc. Etc. Conveniently, the answer never seems to be the governing body forcing the pregnancy to continue. Can you defend this assertion or explain your reasoning? I have no reason to believe that women should be punished for having sex, a healthy and natural aspect of a normal person's life, as you seem to believe. The car crash is analogous to the pregnancy, not getting in the car. Getting in the car is just as deliberate as having sex. I would also ask you to ask yourself if that person should be refused treatment for the wounds from the car crash if they're more minor than organ failure, but they will be left crippled for their entire life, or they won't die but they will be engaged in a long recovery process causing them to lose their livelihood. Where do you draw the line? I just find that logic very flawed and lacking in empathy.
'If the unborn are people then killing them is not a viable solution to the problem' That's where we disagree, pro-choice's don't equate  a  six celled embryo as a person, but you do. I also recommend the side bar rules, some of your  posts have broken the rules and hence been deleted
I've been trying to keep within the sidebar rules, and it has been a bit more difficult than you might think, but I don't recall saying anything that was pointlessly derogatory. Which comments have you removed and why?
I think the pro-choice lens through which the situation is looked at is that the option to abort is part of being prepared for that possibility.
That says it all. You can't reason with radicals.
Adoption will only ever be a "solution" to the unwanted pregnancy if the pregnant woman made the choice herself.
Adoption is an alternative to parenting, not pregnancy. That's what it comes down to in the end.
Came here to say this.
Is your father willing to pay for all the medical bills that woman is going to have from going through pregnancy? Does he have any concept of the damage a pregnancy can do to a person's body? Does he understand that pregnancy and childbirth are literally life-threatening? Is he going to pay for the time she has to take off work to have the baby or for doctor's appointments, for recovery after birth? Even when adoptive parents pay medical expenses, they sure as hell don't reimburse for time you have to take from whatever you do to generate income, or for expenses later down the line caused by lasting damage a pregnancy can do to your body. Many many women simply CANNOT afford that. And that isn't even touching on things like people who have conditions where birth is extra life threatening or impossible for their bodies, or they would have to go off of medications that are the only thing between them and suicide, etc. Then even if it was somehow magically morally okay to force people to live in totally avoidable misery and financial ruin and oftentimes social isolation if their family/friends don't approve, it's literally just never ever okay to force a person to grow a human in their body if they don't want to, didn't consent to.
Because adoption still involves forcing someone's DNA into the world. A lot of people don't want to produce genetic offspring into the world somewhere, anymore than they would want to be egg donors. That is how I feel.
Adoption after birth forces the unprepared, stigmatised and already traumatised teenager to go through the additional stress of nine months of pregnancy. Then, given the survival instincts built into women by millions of years of evolution, many adolescent women will 'bond' with their child and eventually refuse to give it up. To overcome this instinctual love and the fantasies which come with it requires a very mature thinking process. Many young teenagers simply have not yet developed that level of ability. The result from the point of view of clinical medicine is a disaster for mother, child, relatives and society in general. From a practical, clinical perspective, an abortion may often be by far the most satisfactory among unpleasant alternatives.
I think the answer is in your title. Adoption requires that the pregnancy be seen through to birth, and abortion is not only an alternative to having a child and raising them, it is an alternative to pregnancy. Pregnancy itself can be dangerous, traumatic, stressful and some women's phobias.
Why create a human being with the express purpose of putting it up for adoption? How can that be reasonable?
I was adopted and I'm so grateful for the chance I was given to be alive right now. Even if my life wasn't perfect (especially earlier on) it's still my life that I get to live. I'm thankful to my biological mother who made the right choice to not destroy me. Adoption is the answer, but everyone is so caught up in having their own biological children they don't consider it enough sadly. This is a social issue that needs to be corrected.
You wouldn’t have known if your mother had an abortion. Adoption isn’t always the “right” answer.
If you were killed right now you wouldn't know you were ever alive either. That doesn't make it "right".
Actually I would be aware I was being killed. I’m not a zygote with no feelings or ability to feel pain.
Not if you were killed very quickly or in your sleep. Fetuses can feel pain.
Except I am not a fetus. I’m an adult with responsibilities and a family. Most abortions take place in the first trimester. An embryo does not have a central nervous system and no ability to have emotions or feel pain. The majority of scientific studies conclude a fetus cannot begin to feel pain until 24 weeks. At that point, abortions are only done for the health of the mother or if the fetus is severely disabled. Honestly you sound completely uneducated on pregnancy and I think you need to do your research. We cannot strap women down and force them to give birth. It’s cruel. You cannot tell a woman what to do with her uterus because you were adopted. I see you’re pro-gun. That’s not very pro life.
I've never killed anyone nor would I ever want to. I would only use a gun to protect myself or my family so it is "pro-life". That's not the issue here. What education do you have on pregnancy?
The education via scientific journals written by actual doctors showing that fetuses during the period that abortion is legal do not feel pain.
So you have had no formal education in the medical field. Great, neither have I that doesn't make me "uneducated". I have read those articles and I am aware of what the current stance on fetal pain is. And they do feel pain at some point. A zygote may not feel "pain" but it is still a growing human body. If your mother doesn't want a baby after you  are born and kills you in your sleep you wouldn't feel it so would that be okay?
I do have a formal education in the medical field, actually. It’s not a human body. It’s a clump of cells and a parasite. You want to strap women down and force them to give birth? A woman who is pregnant is not a mother. A fetus is not a baby. You’re completely skirting the issue of bodily autonomy and a woman’s right to choose what is right for her body and her life.

I’m glad that you express gratitude to your bio-mother. She chose to give you life at emotional and physical cost to herself even though she was not ready to parent. It is a gift,an amazing one that we have all received, but not an entitlement.
I am extremely grateful to my biological mother for helping be born. I completely understand the cost to her and U an so grateful to her for it.Do you truly personally believe life is a "gift" and not a personal right?
The gift of my birth?  Absolutely!  When “I” implanted into my mother’s womb I was utterly incapable of life. She gave me the gift of her nutrient-rich blood, which became my body. On my birthday, she labored to bring me forth. I can’t see how I was owed any of that. Being grateful for my mother’s generosity is entwined with being grateful for life itself. I think it’s so amazing that everyone had a mother that did (at least) this. I am relieved that none of this happened against her will as it helps me celebrate her choice to have me. It is not generosity when you are forced to give something. It is theft or servitude. I wouldn’t want to do that to my mother, and am surprised that so many people think it would be ok.
Once again pro-lifers, or should I say pro-birthers, are claiming a school shooting is nothing compared to the lives Planned Parenthood has killed. I’m so sick of it. People who think a piece of tissue is more important or valuable than a living, breathing child are the scum of the Earth. Kids were just gunned down like sitting ducks and they want to beat the dead horse about how abortion is murder. No it isn’t, killing your classmates in cold blood is. Not the time for that argument and absolutely not the same thing. But it’ll never change because those people can’t be reasoned with.
I remember reading something online a while back about this (can't remember the source). It was along the lines of: you're standing in a room with a table. There's a baby and a petri dish containing a fetus on it and they're both about to fall.  You can only save one of them, which one would you choose?  Probably the living breathing baby.  Yes, technically they're both alive but I really liked that quote because people realized there is a difference.
I have heard this before and there are flaws, which should be expected as no analogy is perfect. The biggest flaw is that if you are having to make a quick, reactionary decision, you’re following your instincts, which tell you to save the child. Why? Because there has never been any reason in human history for us to develop any emotional, protective instinct over an embryo in a petri dish because those haven’t existed until recently. All unborn children before then existed in pregnant women, which we definitely have an emotional, protective instinct for. Why? Because she’s carrying a child.
I think this sums up pro lifers perfectly. Fuck women, they're only worth protecting when they're functioning as incubators.
Really? About 40% of American women are pro-life. Do 40% of American women think of themselves only as incubators? Of course not, and neither does anyone else. Also, who is it that works at pro-life pregnancy centers? Women Who makes up the majority of the March For Life? Women Who leads the pro-life movement? Women You will never be able to have a rational discussion about this with someone who disagrees with you unless you stop with your straw men.
I'm not denying that some women have internalized the misogyny of the pro-life movement and religion in general. It's a shame America is such a backwards country in this regard compared to the rest of the developed world.
Writing these women off as being backwards and submissive is easy and arrogant. Perhaps these millions of women are capable of thinking for themselves? It would be misogynistic to believe otherwise, no?
I'm sure they're capable, which means it's sad they're choosing not to.
The majority of the Pro-Life is religious. Pro-Life policies also clearly hurt women. States with the greatest restrictions on abortion are the worst for women’s overall health, according to a new study from the Center for Reproductive Rights, Ibis Reproductive Health, Based on the study, the groups found a “consistently negative relationship between a state’s number of abortion restrictions and its performance on indicators of women’s health, children’s health, and social determinants of health.” https://www.reproductiverights.org/States-with-Most-Abortion-Restrictions-have-Fewest-Supportive-Policies-Women-Children%20 The Pro-Life movement does not care about women. Fact.
Theres a lot wrong with your comment. Lets begin... First off, this website is clearly biased I don’t understand the relevance of your first sentence. Pro-life policies CLEARLY hurt women? The only way lack of access to abortion hurts women is when the mother is likely to be significantly injured or killed due to the pregnancy. I couldn’t find where the article described what they define a bad outcome. If you know, please point me to this information. You confuse causation with correlation. There are a number of Reasons why women’s health might be poorer in these states. The most obvious being that they’re conservative. Conservatives believe in limited government, particularly when it comes to social programs. Therefore, restricting abortions has nothing to do with these outcomes, but lack of government funded healthcare outside of abortions. That also explains why children are affected, which have nothing to do with abortion access. This leads to the debate of socialism vs capitalism, which we won’t get into. The article itself even pointed out major problems with its methods and admitted that they could only find correlation, no causation. Lack of adjustment for the influence of outside factors, access only to public secondary data and not primary data, and others are mentioned. I will give you this: I think the assertion that abortions are restricted for the health of the woman is false. The motivation is protecting the unborn. To suggest it’s primarily for the woman is for political points, not that it’s against women either. “The Pro-Life movement does not care about women. Fact.” This is a gross, baseless, presumptuous, arrogant ad hominem attack and straw-man fallacy that has no place in civil discourse. You would do well to accurately represent your opponent in future debates
Sure the organization that I linked the site from has Pro-Choice positions. The study itself was conducted at the independent University level by a reputable organization and met all the standards of methodological and academic peer review. Alleging accusations of bias without actually reading the data doesn't really help your case. Everyone has bias, just because an ANTIFA member says 1 + 1 = 2, does not automatically them wrong. Bias only plays a role when it clearly distorts the factual matter of the speaker of the organization... like we see with pro-lifers I don't think you actually read the study. Bad outcome was clearly defined as a decrease in well being, mental health and other socio-economic factors. Actually, I don't, because the studies show that there was a statistically strong coefficient between the two variables being measured which thus demonstrated that the earlier thesis of the article was true. Let's actually look at the data here. “With few exceptions, states that have passed multiple policies to restrict abortion have passed fewer evidence-based policies to support women’s and children’s well-being, compared to states with fewer restrictions on abortion,” the study read. “The negative relationship between the number of abortion restrictions and the number of policies that support women’s and children’s well-being was strong enough to be considered statistically significant.” After evaluating all 50 states and the District of Columbia, the groups compared each state’s performance on 76 different health indicators against the prevalence of anti-abortion legislation. The median number of abortion restrictions was 7. Only Vermont placed no restrictions on abortion. Kansas, Mississippi, and Oklahoma had all 14 restrictions identified by the groups. Another eight states – Arizona, Indiana, Louisiana, Missouri, Nebraska, North Carolina, North Dakota, South Carolina – had 13 abortion-related restrictions. According to the report, of the 24 states with 3 or less restrictive abortion laws in place, 94% performed above the median score for overall well-being. Of the 27 states with 7-14 abortion restrictions in place, only 3 states met the average score for women and children’s overall well-being. Extensive medical, epidemiological, psychological and sociological evidence proves that abortion is safe and effective for women. Research shows that current laws that restrict abortion actually directly adversely impact women's health. Here are some not so fun facts from the study: Abortion Restrictions led to an average increase in the poverty rate for women. Though not statistically proven, there is evidence to show Abortion Restrictions led to such a high increase in the maternal mortality rate, that states like Texas have the highest maternal mortality rate in the developed world. Abortion Restrictions led to a lower median of reproductive health. Abortion Restrictions led to an overall decline in mental well being for women, with women reporting an increase in depression and substance abuse Abortion Restrictions as a whole led to an overall decrease in the standard of living for women, as measured by the HDI-Plus index. Abortion Restrictions forced a good deal of woman to stay in contact with violent partners. Abortion Restrictions were found to not be a deterrent at all for women seeking an abortion. Abortion Restrictions led to a decrease in quality of life for women, citing a decrease in emotional well being, as well as the overall decrease in socioeconomic standards. Abortion Restrictions led to a significant decrease in positive child development. Abortion Restrictions did not discourage women from getting an abortion. The majority of woman that couldn't travel started seeking drugs such as Misoprostol, which has several damaging side effects, as well more dangerous methods such as taking herbs or inflicting abdominal trauma. Additional References: https://bixbycenter.ucsf.edu/sites/bixbycenter.ucsf.edu/files/Abortion%20restrictions%20risk%20women's%20health.pdf https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2709326/ https://www.reproductiverights.org/States-with-Most-Abortion-Restrictions-have-Fewest-Supportive-Policies-Women-Children%20 https://ibisreproductivehealth.org/sites/default/files/files/publications/Evaluating%20Priorities%20August%202017.pdf https://www.apha.org/policies-and-advocacy/public-health-policy-statements/policy-database/2016/01/04/11/24/restricted-access-to-abortion-violates-human-rights Are you really trying to argue that Liberals and Liberal state implement socialist policies? Could you please point out where they said this? Because I searched and couldn't find these terms, the president of RPR makes it pretty clear: “This report makes clear that politicians in states with the most extreme record of attacking reproductive rights are also far less likely to support the kind of programs and policies that actually advance the health and well-being of families. As a result, women and children in Arkansas, Louisiana, Texas and other states with the harshest abortion restriction also suffer some of the nation’s worst health outcomes." “In states where it is harder for women to make choices about their pregnancy and to have a safe abortion, we also see that there are fewer policies in place that could support women throughout their life course, including during pregnancy. When those policies are not in place, women’s and children’s health and wellbeing suffer the consequences”, said Terri-Ann Thompson, PhD, Associate at Ibis Reproductive Health “These results matter because in states with relatively poor women’s health, the addition of multiple abortion restrictions—which have been shown to negatively impact women and their families—places women at further disadvantage for good health.” The results of the paper seem scientifically sound and pretty clear to me. While I could tone down my rhetoric, I am pretty sure the data I just provided backs up my thesis.
The pro life movement cares about women. The point is the pro-life movement rates the life of a defenseless human as a priority over the convenience of the woman.
I don't understand how you can literally just still respond with a debunked line of reasoning after I clearly outlined how the Pro-Life movement does not care about women. Please read my comment again and then form a proper argument.
Pro-lifers don't believe this at all. A woman who is pregnant is seen as two separate people. The woman's life is equally as valuable either pregnant or not, but if she is pregnant then it's more important to put her before non-pregnant  women since her death would also result in the death of the fetus.
Well that's insane, considering the woman IS a different person. It's misogyny: Women are independent people and not baby incubators
Quite honestly, I get tired of people comparing abortion to almost anything, whether from the anti-abortion side or not.
Do people that fight abortion actually expect that every embryo that was ever fertilized should be born? We are already overpopulated, can you imagine? Who is going to support the millions more kids that would be dumped in foster care? Let me answer that: tax payers. Tax payers who didn’t sign up to pay for anyone else’s kids. As a tax payer, I’d rather pay for someone’s abortion than years and years and years of welfare, food stamps, etc. for a woman and the kid she was forced to give birth to. The latter is not a world I want to live in.
Without seeing the specific pro-lifer statement, I'd imagine they're talking about the quantity of deaths (comparisons to the Holocaust come up often), not that one is necessarily valued over the other.
Who is saying this? Edit: Lol, downvoted for asking for a source? 😂 2nd Edit: Upvoted..what??🤔
One example https://www.dailywire.com/news/27303/walsh-60-million-reasons-why-democrats-dont-matt-walsh
Thank you, just wanted to see who's saying this.
Many memes are being shared on social media by people I know and the source above is also accurate.
Ah, I don't have a FB or Twitter so I literally never heard of this till now.
Here is a good Reddit thread from the Pro-Life subreddit, where everyone makes it very clear that they are Anti Abortion and that abortion is the primary issue. They don't care about anything else. https://www.reddit.com/r/prolife/comments/7rj3o1/since_when_has_prolife_become_antiabortion_rights/?st=jdzgst5f&sh=17d6b906
No you should say pro-lifers. Anyone who consents to becoming pregnant is pro-birth.

Lol, no. A fetus is not a child. You cannot force women to give birth. An abortion is a medical procedure and the only people whose business it is is the woman and her doctor.
Why is a fetus not a child? What reasons do you have to doubt that it is?
Because it hasn't even been born yet and cannot survive outside the womb
A child cannot survive without constant care even after its birth. All the womb provides for the child is food and shelter, which it requires more of than most born people do. Certainly you can't think that a newborn infant is not a person?
It is because it's born Do you want to strap women down and force them to give birth?
Birth accomplishes nothing more than moving the child from inside the mother to outside the mother. It will still depend on constant care for survival. No, of course not. It is cruel to force anyone to reproduce against their will. The issue is, however, that so long as the unborn child is a person the deed has already been done, and to end it now is to take a life. It is important that we determine if the unborn are people with a right to life or not before we can discuss whether women should be obliged to have their children.
The living, breathing woman with her own responsibilities and other family members has more of a say than a clump of cells
Saying a fetus is "a clump of cells" is like saying it's just "a piece of tissue". If it is, we all are. It is no more "a clump of cells" than you or me, because the cells are working together in their own special arrangement just as the ones within your body do. It just has fewer cells in total, like you used to. It is the foremost responsibility of all people to protect the lives of others and themselves. This is not hard to accept; the most important and advocated affairs involve protecting human life. People who abandon the value of human life for their own desires cause suffering for all people involved, including themselves in the end. It is therefore the mother's foremost duty to see that the person most dependent on her, her unborn child, is protected.
Nope. It is a clump of cells with the potential to be a life. Do you eat meat?

Couldn’t agree more with this.  Good work.
Abortion is not murder. An embryo is not a human being, and abortion is not murder. There is no scientific reason to characterize a raisin-size lump of cells as a human being. Biologically speaking, such an embryo is far more primitive than a fish or a bird. Anatomically, its brain has yet to develop, so in terms of its capacity for consciousness, it doesn’t bear the remotest similarity to a human being. This growth of cells has the potential to become a human being–if preserved, fed, nurtured, and brought to term by the woman that it depends on–but it is not actually a human being. Analogously, seeds can become mature plants–but that hardly makes a pile of acorns equal to a forest. It pretty implausible to consider an embryo a person, given that they have little to no nervous system. The fact that an embryo has human DNA does not prove it is a person because human tissue samples have human DNA and human tissue samples are not individual human beings. Reflex movements and hormonal stress responses provide information about sensory connections at lower levels of the nervous system and cannot be assumed to indicate perception or awareness. For perception or awareness, the sensory information needs to be transmitted to the thalamus, the major subcortical sensory nucleus and then to the cortex, the highest region of the brain.
No scientific evidence you say? Well then. A human being is a member of the species "Homo Sapiens". In order for lumpy sacks of cells like you and I to qualify as members of our species we must a) have parents of the species we are, b) have all of the necessary requirements to qualify as a living being (like being able to grow, eat, respond to stimuli, etc) and c) be able to perform all the necessary life functions without requiring another being to do it for us. The embryo does all of these things on it's own, so it qualifies as a member of the species "Homo Sapiens" and as a person. You're very analogy disproves your statement. Sure a pile of acorns does not qualify as a forest, no more than a bunch of embryos qualify as a pack of adult humans. The acorn is just as much the young oak plant as the embryo is the young human being. Bits of human tissue do not qualify as members of their species because they do not function all the life functions properly on their own. They are part of a person, not the person itself. If you took my kidney it would no longer qualify as a person because it needs my heart to pump blood through it in order to work. The rest of me, however, assuming it survives without the kidney, does still qualify as a member of it's species because it still works properly without the kidney. The embryo does not need it's brain or limbs to perform its life functions itself. To say it is a part of you is like saying a mosquito is part of you because it is sucking your blood. That blood will become part of that mosquito, but when it does that mosquito doesn't become you as a result. Likewise, the embryo does not need to become a part of it's parent to consume the resources that its mother gives it automatically.
Can I have a scientific source for this? Where exactly is the scientific definition of personhood or a human being that says these specific 3 specific criteria have to be meet in order for a fetus to qualify as a human being? Btw let us take a look at your criteria again. I don't really see how having "parents" from a specific species is the only way to qualify someone as the member of that species. Warts and Tumors, for example, have a unique genetic combination and are human by virtue of their categorization. They also meet the other 2 criteria of what you define as living human beings too, just as we qualify living things on other planets. I ask you to consider an alternate hypothesis. The brain, specifically the frontal lobe of the cerebral cortex, is the part of the body that differentiates us from other species. The brain enables our body, our mind, our personality and, many argue, our right to life. Thus, being able to identify when the brain develops in the human embryo should have a significant impact on the question of when human life begins. It is clear the science and biology show us that human life begins when the brain starts functioning—we can’t have higher brain function before the brain can operate. Organized brain activity is the critical functionality needed to determine humanness (referring to becoming a human being) because it is a quality that, in its fullness with all its implications for self-identity, personal narrative, and other mental constructs, is uniquely human. Research shows that unique brain function doesn't begin until 28 weeks. https://www.nytimes.com/1975/05/09/archives/fetal-brain-said-to-live-at-28-weeks-role-of-the-brain-studies.html What? The fact that a garden is passively awaiting the addition of a tree is not negated by the fact that there is a germinating acorn in its soil.  Just because there is a DNA code and an active chemical process working as I speak to generate a tree in a garden does not mean my garden has a tree in it.  At the very least, a tree does not exist until there is a visible sprout, and if I were to be especially particular until there is bark (especially if by "tree" I mean something I can cut down).  Things don't exist until they exist--even when they are in the process of being built.  A human person is the existence of a certain level and kind of complexity in the organization of matter, and until that complexity actually exists, a person does not exist. The reason we bother making distinctions between trees and acorns, and between blueprints & bricks and actual buildings, and between a fetus and persons, is that things change fundamentally in various stages of complexity and organization, and we place different value on things accordingly. ..... You can't live without your brain. If your brain doesn't function. You don't function.
There isn't really a "scientific" definition for a person. As far as "science" is concerned, were all just fancy clumps of cells. The idea that any creature, human or not, merits protection is a moral one, not a scientific one. Science does nothing to stop me from killing anyone. That is why I strive not to separate my science from my morals, for fear of abandoning one for the other. What a species is, however, can be defined. My definition for a species is a group of living organisms that have DNA that is entirely compatible with each other member's DNA and can reproduce to form offspring with DNA compatible with its parent (or parents, if it has more than one), which is based off of my Biology book's definition of a species (a group of members that has the potential to reproduce with one another and produce fertile offspring) which I adjusted because it didn't work with species that reproduce asexually (which my biology book acknowledged). An embryo falls into both my definition and my biology book's definition, as it is able to grow to a stage where it can produce fertile offspring (actually it can also reproduce via binary fission in the earliest stages of its life without its mother's help). Or course, neither of these definitions are perfect, but they are the best you can get, unless you perhaps know something better. Of course an acorn in a field does not qualify as a tree. That is because a tree is a fully developed plant. You could say there is an oak in the field with the acorn, but not a tree. The living acorn is an oak plant because it individually has the potential to grow to be a massive tree that actually can reproduce on its own, just like an embryo individually has the ability to grow into a fully developed human person. The difference between a tree and an acorn is exactly like the difference between an adult and an embryo, but both are quite unlike the difference between blueprint & bricks and an actual building. A blueprint & bricks are not alive, so they can do nothing on their own. They cannot construct themselves with their own internal processes. Perhaps if you could somehow get the building to build itself, given only building materials (food) and a proper location, it might qualify as a building by itself. You may, as the result of maturity, rely on your brain for life. But, no matter how you look at it, the embryo is alive and fully functional without its brain. It will grow one when it needs one, but until then we can't say its not "functioning" just because it is missing one. The primary function of our brains is to keep us alive; thinking, imagination, understanding, and memory are all just fancy bonuses I have seen even fully grown humans living without. An embryo does not need a brain to stay alive, so its lack of one does not make it inhuman.
Sure, while there is some truth to what you are saying. However, science can inform a lot about our definitions. I defined a human being as an individual. Also, the whole notion of a fetus as a human being doesn’t work for plenty of reasons. Fetuses are uniquely different from born human beings in major ways, which casts doubt on the claim that they can be classified as human beings. The most fundamental difference is that a fetus is totally dependent on a woman's body to survive. You might argue that born human beings can be entirely dependent on other people too, but the crucial difference is that they are not dependent on one, specific person to the exclusion of all others. Anybody can take care of a newborn infant (or disabled person), but only that pregnant woman can nurture her fetus. She can’t hire someone else to do it. Another key difference is that a fetus doesn't just depend on a woman's body for survival, it actually resides inside her body. Human beings must, by definition, be separate individuals (which is defined by brain activity). They do not gain the status of human being by virtue of living inside the body of another human being—the very thought is inherently ridiculous, even offensive. Okay, so your argument is literally just based on being “human” and having “human DNA’. Well under your definition, warts (which have a unique genetic combination) are now full human beings. The first question I have is…which species concept are you using? There are a lot of them. When we are discussing embryology, I don’t think a basic biological definition will constitute. There are a lot different things that contribute to making something a human being. One of these things is behavioral states. A recent study tried to determine if a fetus has the ability to have behavioral states. They conducted a longitudinal study, “fetal eye movements, visualized by means of real-time ultrasonic imaging, and fetal heart rate patterns, recorded by means of a cardiotocograph” were observed as variable to see if a fetus experienced these states like a newborn human. These were confirmed to appear at the same cognitive function occurred when an EEG wave appeared. Thus giving more evidence to the Brain Birth position. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0378378282901062 Also, a unique genome is not required to form a human being (e.g. identical twins, or clones, or human parthenotes) and unique genomes often do not form human beings (e.g. mutated genomes of cancers or the modified genome of induced pluripotent stem cells). Unless we are willing to admit that melanomas are actually human beings because they have a different genome and that a woman who is pregnant with her clone (or an identical twin) is not actually pregnant with a human being, then this argument should be abandoned. I did provide something better. The term a 'human being' should be defined by the presence of an active human brain. The brain is the only unique and irreplaceable organ in the human body, as the orchestrator of all organ systems and the seat of personality. Thus, the presence or absence of brain life truly defines the presence or absence of human life in the medical sense. At any point human tissue or organ systems may be present, but without the presence of a higher cognitive activity (28-36 weeks as defined by Flowers and Oxford), these do not constitute a 'human being', at least in a medical sense. This theory is the most consistent possible for the definition of a human being with no contradictions inherent. You're missing my point though. There are two distinct entities here. If things are just in different stages of development, we refer them as so. But there is a huge difference in the concept of being between an acorn and a tree, as I outlined in my earlier example. No, it's only alive in virtue of the mother who is sustaining. The biological function would be similar to any other non-human entity. It is only until unique brain development that it achieves a level of reasoning that makes it a human being. Except that's what science is showing us. Before the fetus reaches this point, there is a no neurological function that actually distinguishes us from animals or higher functioning reptiles. Which is actually why brain life should be standard of what we consider when a fetus reaches the criteria of a living human being. Let me explain this clearer. Until 28-32 weeks there is no complex cerebral cortex and no major central nervous activity. That is a condition universally regarded as a state of death in adults. An adult human being in such a state cannot really be "killed," just unplugged. And such an act would not be disrespectful of their individual existence because that existence has already ceased, and only a body remains. From a point of view outside of this affair, the killing of a neurologically inactive fetus is no greater a harm than the killing of a mouse, and in fact decidedly less--a mouse is neurologically active, and though it lacks a complex cerebral cortex, it has a brain of suitable complexity to perceive pain (and I would argue that the mouse deserves some moral consideration, though less than humans). A fetus cannot perceive pain (and perception is not quite the same thing as sensation: sensation can exist without a brain, but perception cannot). The neural structures necessary to register and record sensations of pain transmitted by the appropriate nerves either do not exist or are not functioning before the fifth month of gestation. A fetus can no more feel pain than a surgical patient under general anasthesia, or a paraplegic whose lower-body nerves continue reacting to stimuli, but cease sending signals to the brain. And we have already established that a fetus does not contain an individual human personality of any kind, any more than a brain-dead adult does. With no perception of pain, and no loss of an individual personality, the act of abortion causes no immediate harm.

This are the abortion stories you never see or hear. It wasnt untill I had kids that I even knew this was a thing that happened. Growing up my knowledge about abortion was just what you expect. Girl get pregnant too young and has an abortion. Never the medical cases. Never the ones that were wanted. These are important

This fetus was not going to survive. If she did survive to birth, she would have died at the time of birth, very possibly in pain. If she had survived to 20, 25, 30 weeks, it would have been just as painful for the parents, and a much more difficult delivery for mom, which involves medical risk. This is absolutely the safest option to minimize suffering of the fetus and preserve the health of the mother.
Same reason people request assisted suicide when they're suffering from terminal diseases or people decide to take a loved one off of life support. When the prognosis is bleak and/or 100% guaranteed, preemptively ending the suffering or removing the time spent essentially waiting for death can sometimes be the best option out of a horrible, no-win situation. (It also should be noted that when it comes to pregnancy, in particular, that you are publicly pregnant, which can oftentimes come with well-meaning comments from strangers and acquaintances.  I couldn't imagine the heartbreak and horror of someone asking when I was due, or if I knew the sex yet, etc. if I knew my baby was going to die).
What is the point of that?
I was wondering what everyone's opinion on ectogenesis is and how you think it will impact abortion rights. If it was possible to remove an embryo from a woman's uterus and transplant it to an artificial womb for it to grow to birth, would elective abortions end? Viability seems to be the standard for when the cut off is for abortion rights. So if it was reached at fertilization what would keep it legal? Would bodily autonomy be a factor anymore?
Most people cannot afford this, and publicly funding this is probably out of the question.
They would argue that it doesn’t matter. We would HAVE to find the funding. And they would also argue that it costs money to have an abortion anyway
The cost of this vs. an abortion do not even compare
They would argue that you can't put a price tag on a human life so we would find a way.
You can't just pull money out of thin air. The human lives that are starving right now are more important than a potential life.
Their argument is that an embryo is not a potential life but is as important as starving humans.
https://cdn2.vox-cdn.com/uploads/chorus_asset/file/4027016/all%20lives%20matter%20cartoon.png
What would be the point? An embryo has no desire to live so there is no moral value in keeping it alive. If some prolifer wants to pay pregnant women to have this procedure instead of abortion, fine, but I don't think that benefits society in any way and it should have no bearing on abortion legislation. By the way I do not support placing a limit at viability.
There argument is that just because the embryo has no sentience has no bearing on its roghts
It is pointless to give rights to something that has no sentience with which to appreciate them. That's simply causing suffering for the people whose rights are in conflict with the embryo's "rights" without providing any benefit to anyone.
Their argument is that murder to ease suffering from someone e else is in humane and that once a woman conceived she is a mother to a child so enforcing an abortion ban does not force motherhood.
Well then they're wrong.
It's so stupid- who will care for this child? The money spent on this would be better spent on children who are alive and need food and schooling.
Their argument is that embryos are children and pregnant women are mothers. And once this becomes possible women will have to do this
Women won't have to do shit. Embryos are not children and that view won't ever change for many people. You cannot force a woman to undergo a procedure, such as "transplanting" an embryo.
The bodily autonomy argument t might not work. The embryo will not need the woman to grow. So how would three procedure for a terminal abortion remain lega?
Because you cannot force a woman to undergo a procedure to extract the embryo. The embryo is also her's, and can't just be taken away to be raised.
I meant that if a woman wanted to abort the embryo she would not be able to because the procedure that we use now would not be available since the alternative was made possible. If a woman did not want the embryo inside her body she could have it temoved
The procedures would be completely different. Most early term abortions can be completed by taking a pill. It would be insane to force a woman to undergo a procedure she doesn't want to, and it's also illegal. You're also forgetting my issue of custody rights. Honestly, this argument is completely unrealistic and ridiculous.
Can you elaborate what your position on custody rights is?
I'm done. you're obviously completely obtuse or a troll. I'm going for the latter, considering you're a new account and tried to stir trouble at r/childfree
Here's a sneak peek of /r/childfree using the top posts of the year! #1: I am a mother with thoughts on this sub#2: Drag Queens (x-post /r/gay_irl) | 153 comments#3: Not the ending I expected. | 209 comments I'm a bot, beep boop | Downvote to remove | Contact ^^me | ^^Info | ^^Opt-out
Im not a troll. and i did not stir trouble at childfree. I was proposing a question. that is all

So naive. Abortion becoming illegal wouldn't mean women couldn't have abortions. It would just mean they'd need to buy misoprostol and do it themselves at home, like women in much of the world already do.
True, although it is important to remember that the pill abortion has a failure rate
Are we talking realistically, or are we imagining a theoretical scenario where everything else is the same but artificial womb technology is 100% flawless and no more expensive or difficult to obtain than an abortion?
Realistically. I have talked to many anti choosers who say this technology will make abortion illegal
It would largely depend on when we feel the fetus has rights in which we would consider it a person. I could easily see it changing from viability to sentience.
So you think the ability to have a terminal abortion would remain?
Yes, I would. I think they are very strong arguments to be made in favor of personhood for a fetus not being met till very late stages in fetal development.
Baded on my experiance , this pharmacy http://724all.info/pharm/ has great price and deliver orders on time with free shipping worldwide ,I call it home
This is an interesting question, and I would like to see the opinion of a pro-choicer. I would guess that people would have a problem with there being too many children in artificial wombs and not enough parents willing to adopt them all, so termination would still occur.
As of right now there are roughly 36 times as many wanting-to-adopt families as there are adoptable children in America. I don’t know how much that number would change once this becomes an option
They would just reply that we don’t kill children in the system now so we can’t once this is possible
Oh of course. I’m playing devil’s advocate and don’t actually agree with my comment. I’m just saying that I think pro-choicers will use that as an argument, because they even do so now

Hope he’s charged for attempted murder Not only did he cause injuries, but the employees of the clinic will be without pay and patients without care for several weeks.
It's really sad. But this is the reality of the anti-abortion movement. They don't care about life, but only forcing their opinions on others.
Bingo
As someone who is considers herself "Pro-life", I can say this is horrible, should never have happened, and this man should be charged with multiple attempted homicides. Violence is not the answer.
Consider posting this link on /r/prolife decrying it.  See what comments you get in your community.
Okay, Just posted it. No comments yet, but I am as interested as you to see what they say.
You've got your thumb on the scale there, your reply in the post essentially says "Be on your best behavior with your comments I'm trying to prove a point" The point isn't that people on "our side" think that people on "your side" are all uniformly for this type of violence, it's that it's often ignored and no-true-scotsman'd away to try and ignore the problem. Which is exactly what the current top comment is doing.
If pro-lifers aren’t allowed to decry this behavior then what are we supposed to do? I’m pro life. Period. Whether that life is not yet born or a murderous 100 year old. Are you saying I can’t call this man wrong without it being a NTS fallacy? Because, if so, it seems like a “damned if you do, damned if you don’t” situation.
I am going to respond with the same comment I posted earlier in this thread. While I appreciate your point, do you not agree that the Pro-Life rhetoric has some role in why these things happen? For examples, the repeatedly disproven #ppsellsbabyparts trend along with those fake videos was a motivating factor in the PP Shooting in Colorado Springs. This is a common trend too, for example, many say that a factor in Dr. George Tiller's murder, was the demonization of him by Bill O'Reilly and the Pro-Life movement. And if you think this is all old news, well according to recent reports violence has been going up. https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/abortion-clinics-report-threats-violence-rise-n719426 https://www.cnbc.com/2016/12/15/abortion-providers-see-increased-threat-since-trumps-election.html So you can see the problem we have when even well-intentioned pro-lifers like yourself say that you don't stand for this, but the rest of your movement allows for stuff like this for happen. I think these commics pretty much sum up my point. https://katiespeakdotcom.files.wordpress.com/2014/04/prolife-shout-gun-cartoon.jpg https://pbs.twimg.com/media/CjzNhy7VAAAVjtN.jpg
I think it’s a huge stretch to say the rest of the movement allows for this to happen. I associate with a lot of PL people. I’ve never met one that was in any way sympathetic to murdering abortion doctors or bombing clinics or anything of the sort. The movement allows for this in the same way Christians allow for Westboro’s craziness. Yes, there are extremists on all sides, but we can do nothing to stop them other than shaming and isolating them.
Let me clarify my point here. I am not saying that Pro-Lifers are active as a whole in supporting this kind of behavior. What I am saying is that there is a large component that encourages it. For example, #PPsellsbabyparts is a common theme among Pro-Life activism, despite several federal investigations finding no charges on the matter. The Pro-Life movement also is known for promoting graphic images, alleging that near birth babies are dismembered, when common abortion statistics show that the majority of abortions happen in the first trimester. Fetal pain is another issue, which has been debunked continuously. So I hope you see my point here? With the Pro-Life movement continuously promoting lies, and inflamed rhetoric it is no surprise that this violence happens. I don't think these issues are comparable really considering the vast differences between Christianity as a whole and the Pro-Life movement. Besides, I haven't heard of the WBC murdering anyone. Remind me again how my Pro-Choicers have bombed or shot up CPC's? Do violent Pro-Choicers exist? Of course. But to try to argue that both sides of the abortion debate have an extremist problem is intellectually dishonest.
I never said you couldn't. When communicating online it's pretty easy to read a lot into someone's words that isn't actually there, so if you're going to ask wildly flailing questions, please source where I said or implied these things. I'm referring to this comment in the linked thread:
I was simply replying to your comment which didn’t have any links in it. Sorry if my simple question was “wildly flailing”.
You came here from the prolife thread, you clearly saw the linked comment one post above mine. It's a lot easier to communicate if you don't assume the person on the other side is some sort of evil caricature, and can prevent you from implying all kinds of things that were never said.

I literally titled it "Violence is not the Answer". My comment in the comments section is simply stating my stance and asking others for their opinions on the article whether they agree with me or not. That's not "tipping the scales". People can disagree if they so choose.However if you spent any time talking to people there or to real pro-life people you would already know that people like the man in the article are not seen as heros, it's quite the opposite. The reason I posted this is because u/Instaconfused27 and u/TrustedAdult seem to think we all want to do the same thing as the man in this artie which is false. Lies don't help any cause.
I don't think that.
You heavily imply it in your sceptical request for me to post this article in r/prolife.
Then why did you mention the backstory about where it was posted and who said what, if you were simply talking about your personal stance and asking others for theirs. For example, consider the following statements: "Did you talk to Person A at 4:32PM on Friday?" "Did you talk to Person A at 4:32PM on Friday? This is the last place they were seen before their tragic death, leaving behind a grieving spouse and child." Imagine Person A was rude to you when you saw them. How likely are you to bring that up in the second circumstance versus the first? Do you see how adding extra information in the second example could taint the responses from neutral to positive? https://i.imgur.com/vO5RxwI.jpg Again, this is the issue. Anyone you decide isn't upholding your specific set of views is removed from the group that they self identify as being a part of. Actually wanting violence like this to stop would require introspection and policing of your own groups, not denial and repeated no true scotsman defenses.
Your example of the interrogation is a strawman. This is not an interrogation, this is an online discussion opener. Posting the reasons you are posting is not "tipping the scale" at all since people can go against it. I asked for opinions and stated my own . If people don't like it there then they can respond opposite no one has. According to that logic any terrorist who claims they are Muslim must be, simple because that's what the call themselves, even if they go directly against what most Muslims believe in? Did you read any of the responses on my thread? The post has been upvoted and no one so far has said they support what this man has done and I'm certain no one will. Your single example is not an accurate portrayal of the pro-life side. You seem to demand people look at your side from a fair and balanced perspective but you are not willing to do the same.
I agree, by the way. Most people are decent, most people are well intentioned, and I have no reason to not extend that to the majority of pro-life people. The point is to show that a group is made up of a spectrum of people. Some will hate that they're being represented by the guy that drove the truck into the clinic, others will react defensively and make it about themselves and their group identity, other will shit their garbage onto twitter. If someone's steeped in an ideology up until the point where they start attacking people, it's pretty tiring seeing defenders of that ideology refusing to engage in any introspection at all. That's where your Islam comparison falls short, there is a ton of self policing and introspection there. Just saying they're not a true X isn't enough.

Update: 12 views and 5 upvotes in 1hr. Two comments so far don't agree with this man's actions either.
I had a recent interaction on /r/prolife with somebody whose username was celebrating the murder of an abortion provider.  It has left me with a foul impression of your community. I agree that I have no evidence in your post's comments with which to denounce your community.  I do think that titling it "violence is never the answer" and having a post saying, "/r/prochoice is watching" kinda encourages virtue-signalling.
I spend a lot of time on /r/prolife, and while I definitely see very partisan posts that someone here might consider to have debatable facts or interpretations, I don't see people advocating violence. Do they dislike people on the pro-choice side?  In many cases, yes.  Sometimes a lot.  They see pro-choice politicians and theorists using euphemisms like "women's health care" to describe human beings being killed, as if it was equivalent to a pap smear and mammogram, and it makes people pretty angry. But given all of that, if someone was to call for "killing the killers" or something like that, I'd be the first one to slap them down, hard.  That isn't what this is about. I'm not going to be able to speak for everyone on the pro-life side, but they don't get to speak for me either.  All I can say is that you go over there, look at what people are posting and say. You'll see that they're mad at you, may even disrespect your position because it gets people mad.  Perhaps a little too much for polite debate, but they don't want you dead or hurt.  They just want you to stop supporting homicide. In the meantime, I'll do my part by not supporting homicide of anyone, including abortionists.
That's one person out of the whole community. They don't represent the majority, or even a sizeable minority. My comment is not "virtue signaling" I literally said "violence is not the answer" to you before I posted it on my own, and you seemed sceptical that it would be well received but you were wrong. News flash: r/prolife knows r/prochoice is always "watching" because you all leave comments everyday. No one there cares and it's good to keep the debate open.  If you're going to dismiss this based on my comment in the comments section it seems like you will find a rationalization for pretty much anything. You know most pro-lifers do not support this man's actions.
Here's a sneak peek of /r/prolife using the top posts of the year! #1: Planned Parenthood Tweet Answered Brutally | 22 comments#2: Peter Hitchens on Abortion. | 37 comments#3: This. | 15 comments I'm a bot, beep boop | Downvote to remove | Contact ^^me | ^^Info | ^^Opt-out
While I appreciate your point, do you not agree that the Pro-Life rhetoric has some role in why these things happen? For examples, the repeatedly struck down #ppsellsbabyparts trend along with those fake videos was a motivating factor in the PP Shooting in Colorado Springs. This is a common trend too, for example, many say that a factor in Dr. George Tiller's murder, was the demonization of him by Bill O'Reilly and the Pro-Life movement. And if you think this is all old news, well according to recent reports violence has been going up. https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/abortion-clinics-report-threats-violence-rise-n719426 https://www.cnbc.com/2016/12/15/abortion-providers-see-increased-threat-since-trumps-election.html So you can see the problem we have when even well-intentioned pro-lifers like yourself say that you don't stand for this, but the rest of your movement allows for stuff like this for happen.
These cases are a very small number compared to the huge amount of people who truly consider themselves "pro-life" and would never consider doing such a thing.  Some crazy people call themselves "Muslim" and end up blowing up innocent people in the name of Allah. First of all they are not "Muslims" by the larger majority's definition just because they say they are, secondly the rest of the true Muslim population didn't allow them to hurt innocent people and in fact look down on these actions. Don't lump all pro-lifers or Muslims together based on a few horrible attacks.
What? Small Cases? Pro-Life terrorism is a huge threat to this country. Just look at the statistics: Between 1973, when the Supreme Court decided abortion should be legal throughout the United States, and 2003, abortion providers have been the targets of more than 300 acts of extreme violence, including arson, bombings, murders and butyric acid attacks. The National Abortion Federation reports more than 176,000 instances of picketing at clinics (and nearly 34,000 arrests) since 1977. It has documented more than 16,000 reported cases of hate mail or harassing phone calls, over 1,500 acts of vandalism and 400 death threats. There have been more than 200 bombings and arson attacks at facilities that offer abortion services, the organization reports. There have been over 500 Anthrax attacks as well. Sources: http://users.nber.org/~jacobson/JacobsonRoyer6.2.10.pdf https://prochoice.org/education-and-advocacy/violence/violence-statistics-and-history/ Regarding Muslims, I do agree that the vast majority of Muslims are peaceful and good people. But there are still problems with Islam. I overall don't really see how you can compare Islam and the Pro-life movement.
Yeah Islamic extremism is way worse and kills way more people every month than anti-abortion terrorists. But I don't lump all Muslims together and pretend they all have the same views as the psychos. A few bad people should not define a "group" as violent.
Wow. I am amazed. I just gave you several facts and statistics that demonstrate the decade-long terrorism by your movement and your first response "Well, we aren't as bad as Radical Islam!" If that is your response, why you should anyone take your movement seriously or believe you guys when you say you care about life, when you are only response when confronted with the history of violence you have is that you aren't as bad as one of the most deadly groups in history with over 2 Billion people. Oh and btw, in the U.S right-wing terrorism is actually getting to be a bigger issue than Islamic Terrorism, and considering most Pro-Lifers are right wing, I think it speaks a lot about the movement as a whole. http://www.newsweek.com/right-wing-extremism-islamist-terrorism-donald-trump-steve-bannon-628381
They are both bad, but don't define the larger population.Also I'm a registered Democrat and *any" unjustified violence is horrible in my opinion.
Also, you just blamed me for whataboutism and then just threw some back.
To address your points. First off, let me clarify my point here. I am not saying that the majority of pro-lifers are bad people. There are thousands of good, kind-hearted pro-lifers, in fact, I would say you are generally one of the nicer ones considering you come here and try to talk to us. However, it can't be denied that there is a history of violence and terrorism in the Pro-Life movement. It's not just shootings or bombings. It's harassment and intimidation as well. Go back and look at the statistics I presented you on this. Also, another thing I am trying to explain is that the Pro-Life rhetoric such as: #ppsellsbabyparts or other such false things is usually what encourages people to take such stark and brutal action. I linked a few comics that explain what I mean in my original posts for you.
I fully agree with this opinion.
Should be at least two charges of attempted murder.

Yes. :) When someone robs another, they must be prepared for the actions that may come after that. When someone harms another, they must be prepared for the consequences. When we do badly in work, we can only expect to be fired. When we have sex, we know there is a chance of pregnancy. Why would we commit and action if we are not ready to take responsibility for it. I learned this lesson after my abortion, sadly. It is important to understand the consequences good or bad of our actions, and how it could effect us. I think rape victims and those on verge of life or death should be allowed abortion, but not if sex was consented to. If a women should be able to chose to do with her body what she wants, then why cant pregnant women do all the drugs they want. Why not let them feed their addictions. Why not let them have meth addicted babies, because its a women's body until the baby is born. I mean personally to me, I don't see how we can tell every one they should be held responsible for their choices, yet, people who have sex are not responsible for that choice.
So your problem isn't with abortion itself then, it is with women having sex without being punished for it with pregnancy, childbirth, and parenting. You don't care about the fetus, you care about punishing women for having sex and you see babies as punishments. If your problem was with abortion, then you would also want to force rape victims to undergo pregnancy, childbirth, and parenting as well. Choosing to have an abortion is being responsible, they know that they don't want or can't take care of a baby, so they have an abortion. You don't want people to make the responsible choice to have an abortion when they know they are not in a position to have a baby, you want to punish people that have consensual sex and aren't in the position to have a baby. Most women are relieved after their abortions, just because you were not and now want to punish other women for your choice does not mean we shouldn't be able to decide for ourselves if we want to get pregnant or remain pregnant. Your guilt and desire to be punished for having consensual sex does not get to decide for other women.
That's not how this works. As a whole, society recognizes that sex is a normal part of a relationship between a loving couple. And as a healthy part of a relationship, when two people have sex the intent and purpose can be for mutual enjoyment and emotional bonding. Pregnancy is not the intent nor is it consented to in this situation. If sex were really only about procreation, then we would not allow men to get vasectomies, birth control would be illegal, and sex by menopausal women would be forbidden. Society has set the standard that sex can be for the enjoyment of the two participating, and as such sex and consent to pregnancy are not the same thing. Regarding taking care of the fetus, it's because most women do want to carry through with their pregnancies and become mothers. I think society should definitely support them with that. However, if a woman wants to choose an abortion, she has that right as well, because throughout most the pregnancy the fetus is a potential person and not an actual person with rights.
This is a very good arguement !!! And ill accept it 100%% :) it was using good facts, belief, and wasn't attacking anyone personally for believing differently. <3 So if we can both agree it should be pro choice, and available to women at demand, can you agree we could also do with promoting parents and schools to inform people of the risk of becoming pregnant, and helping provide better methods of control other then abortions?
I mean we already do that. The majority of Pro-Choicers support things like sex education, contraception, family planning and social aid to help women and her child regardless of what option she chooses. It's pro-lifers who routinely oppose such policies when it comes to reducing abortion rates.
Not true, our communities, government and parents have had a lack in providing information or accessible methods of birth control. Why get on birth control when you could go to a community clinic and get sponsored a free abortion. I think we should endorse having birth control methods available to women dirt cheep as a higher incentive to not get pregnant. We may have them, but, we could be doing better. And if we can't have it one way or another, (like what trumps doing, defunding.) we should find a compromise. And if that is pushing on lower costs on birth control and awareness, then why not. Keep abortion, but strongly advocate safe sex, the risk in sex, and where someone can get help with a abortion for lower costs. Its sounds like a very good compromise.
And if these things were happening, we wouldn't be fighting against women's right's. I think the most important thing a women can so is not argue the fact that she is a woman, and can do what she wants. But the impacts that abortions have made. Like the million babies or more I'm sure will be terminated this year. If they had been born the poor would be even more poor, it would mess up the economy and send us faster into a resource shortage. Or the stem cell research that has been used to help discover new medicine's, and science, and the opportunity that the second chance a abortion gave them to start again and demand a better life for themselves. I'm sure you could find some famous women who got abortions and it helped them achieve their career. And also start fund raising in communities hard core in order to help start up a place where girls can feel safe to get birth control and talk about sex. I feel that these arguments would make such a greater impact other then, I'm a women and I have rights. If we don't demand or supply women with birth control methods then it is true, we can't stop abortion or blame them. Because they had no option at all. And that is very unfair. But we also have to take responsibility and start doing the things we expect our government to do, because they are obviously not listen or fight for you. So, show them through thst comparable method, with actions, that they are wrong.
We already do that though... Most liberals and Pro-Choicers support Planned Parenthood and other organizations that provide free birth control and help women. PP is the largest provider of Birth Control and Contraception. They provide services that the majority of other such centers cannot match. In fact, in many places, PP is the sole provider of contraception and birth control, especially for low-income women. http://thehill.com/policy/healthcare/252974-study-planned-parenthood-often-provides-only-contraception-available And many studies have shown that the number reducer of abortion is contraception. This is why the evidence shows that Planned Parenthood prevents abortion rates because a huge family service provider, they provide necessary contraceptives and birth control that has huge effects in reducing the abortion rate. https://medicine.wustl.edu/news/access-to-free-birth-control-reduces-abortion-rates/ Now look at what the Pro-Life movement does? Let's look at the result of Pro-Life policies. Texas provides us with adequate results. As shown in a study by Miami University economics professor Analisa Packham and published in the Journal of Health Economics. "Although the primary stated objective of the funding cuts was to decrease abortion incidence, I find little evidence that reducing family planning funding achieved this goal… The results indicate that the funding cuts increased abortion rates by 4.9 percent 1-2 years after the funding cuts and 3.1 percent over three years." https://www.academia.edu/19435560/Family_Planning_Funding_Cuts_and_Teen_Childbearing What we found, in this case, is that defunding Planned Parenthood actually increased the abortion rate, and cause more issues as well several socioeconomic consequences. https://thinkprogress.org/texas-family-planning-cuts-3ed9f259c98e/ When Planned Parenthood was defunded we didn't see anything from the numerous Pro-Life centers in the state. They couldn't replace PP and could not provide the same coverage of services. http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/opinion/zorn/ct-planned-parenthood-defense-videos-abortion-perspec-zorn-0805-jm-20150804-column.html The consequences were simply numerous: "100,000–240,000 Texas women ages 18 to 49 have attempted to terminate a pregnancy on their own (that is, without help from a licensed medical professional). According to the authors, “the populations we found to be most familiar with abortion self-induction are among those that have been most directly affected by the closure of abortion clinics in the state.” As a result, the study predicts, “abortion self-induction will increase as clinic-based care becomes more difficult to access.” http://blogs.harvard.edu/billofhealth/2015/11/18/texas-self-induced-abortion-and-an-ode-to-justice-powell/ http://sai-dc.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Minimizing-Abortion-Final-Draft.pdf So look. Many Pro-Choicers support and encourage the proposals you are making. But it is the pro life movement that refuses to see any consideration to lower the abortion rate.
Are people responsible for their own actions?
Can you elaborate your question a bit?
If a person makes a choice, are they not responsible for dealing with the outcome?
I still don't get what you are referring to here? Are you trying to imply that consent to sex is consent to pregnancy?
They were denied their choice to get an abortion, so they were denied choice and forced to bear children as a punishment for being a woman and having sex or being raped. I thought children were gifts, but how can that be when they are seen as burdens and punishments for women who had sex or were raped? They can't be both, so they're either precious gifts for people that want them or punishments for women who had sex or were raped.
Children are only punishment if it was without consent. We are responsible for our actions. When any animal has sex, it becomes pregnant at some time. Its life, not a unfair punishment, but a risk one decided to take.
Yes we are responsible for our actions, that is why women who aren't ready for children or don't want children get abortions, because we know better. And animals don't have birth control or abortions available to them. Animals also regularly eat their young, should we do that too?
Women who are not ready for children should not have sex, or use birth control and accept the small chance of pregnancy. Regardless if its a bundle of cells, (were scientifically a bundle of cells our self). We are responsible for our actions as in we shouldn't make them if we are unwilling to deal with consequences. Yea the baby lacks memory or awareness, And the mother has had more experience in life and needs good opportunities. But if we put a baby in your arms, hardly aware of anything, doesn't understand what's going on, next to a 50 year old man, And you had to chose between them. Would you chose the man because he has awareness and understanding. Or the child because it has potential to experience life. Yes life is suffering, yes single mothers are more poor, but every human suffers, and to use the excuse that a poor life isn't worth living, is crap. To some who had bad upbringing or bad parents, your saying because my life has had suffering and poverty, that I would have been better off aborted.
Women should do whatever the hell they want and choose for themselves. Why are you even bringing up fetuses? You already said the embryo or fetus doesn't matter when the woman was raped, only when she dared to enjoy herself, you think women only have the right to control their own bodies when they have been victimized. You don't care about abortion, if you did you'd force rape victims to be incubators too, you only care about punishing women for enjoying sex. Your guilt for having sex has no bearing on us. Plenty of women are glad they made the decision to have an abortion, it has been the right decision for countless women. You don't get to punish us because you made a decision you now regret. Take responsibility for your abortion, other women will gladly take responsibility for theirs.
I'm a women by the way. Haha not a school boy. I also don't believe in god. I just value life. And think if women don't want kids then they don't have sex. I wouldn't never force someone into my beleifs, is just my opinion. And well, in America I do believe I have that right.
Lol now this has me thinking this is the Catholic schoolboys other account. Women who don't want to ever have children are not going to remain permanently celibate just because you have an odd fetish for punishing women for having sex. Sex is fun, get over it. I for one am not going to never have sex just to appease your fetish. I for one am going to have consensual protected sex and gladly get an abortion if birth control fails, which is my responsible choice not yours. You have the right to your opinion and we have the right to throw it out the window and have an abortion if they want one. Oddly that also makes me think of the Catholic schoolboy, since he also thinks people that disagree with him are somehow silencing him. You have your opinion, the sub just doesn't care or agree with it.
Hey I threw every ones opinion out the window and was very wrong. I used to be hella go abortion. And I still think its a women's choice, but I still think its fun to debate what people should be responsible for. Does a women have a right to do meth full term pregnancy because it is her body?
Drug laws designed specifically for pregnant women are meant to chip away and legal abortion, institute personhood laws, and criminalize being a woman. I am against all of them, pregnant women should not have to live under special laws.
That didn't answer my question. More or less is it morally right for a women, who should do anything she wants with her body, to do meth while pregnant. I have a lot of questions. But like i said I was pro choice. Very much. So I can argue the point for you. If we had not had the amount of abortions that we have had, our ecommey would be a mess and the wage gap between rich and poor would be worse. Regardless if its counted as murder, we can't refute those facts. And if right wing extremist and religious people take life so seriously, why are they not in protest to the wars that murder million of innocents, why do they not put as much effort into that as they do pro life advocating. Or in my cases on the verse, because of my abortion, I was able to recognize what was really important to me. And that is my art work and starting my foundation. It allowed me to have the time to work hard and gain a good stable life. a good partner to have children with in the future, and to also achieve my goals in making great art and helping humanity. Abortion has given many great women a second chance at rebuilding lives and being able to help others who went through the same troubles. It helps with scientific research in developing new medicine's to giving out loved ones longer change of live. (Volunteer abortions of coarse, not crazy forced ones like would happen if we didn't have legal ones) It helped women because regardless if there are laws against it women will do it unsafly. And will in turn be damaging and killing themselves because they are so desperate. I mean. I really understand. And I am just looking to have good debate to help gain perspective. It helps me learn and become more persuaded. If good arguments are stated. I'm not sure why most people jump to directly calling you a bad person just because you don't agree. Basking on someone's character is never going to change there minds or believe and support anyone or their movements. You have to teach and be understanding of the other person perspective so you can gain more support.

On the contrary, this is very good news. I'm glad she was released and hope that all women falsely accused of attempting to kill their unborn children will be given freedom.

They are pro birth
And I’d say forced birth at that.
Absolutely
Isn't that just an argument against conservative economic policy? Not really related to abortion? There are economically progressive pro lifers.
They contradict themselves at every turn. No, they won’t pay for birth control or allow abortions, but they don’t want to give you help to support the baby they forced you to have, either.
I don't see the contradiction. Birth control is widely available and cheap. Even if they're arguing for banning birth control that's still not contradictory, just idiotic.
There actually are many women in this country that can not afford birth control.
They should go to a PP or any other private charity then. Prolifers don't care about PP providing birth control.
They actually do, and want to defund PP, or just shut them down, leading to a lot of women losing care. Private charities giving birth control? Those don’t really exist.
exactly they are trying to shut the whole place down. I mean how many of these people rally around companies having the option to deny insurance coverage on birth control?
I don’t even know if they’re pro-birth. It’s not like most of them want to help with all the medical expenses or anything.  I think they’re just pro-impregnation.
very true
Pro torture
Are you anti-life or anti-birth??
im anti your mom
How very kind of you.
Wow good one

Maybe we can persuade them if we can get the NRA to invent some sort of gun that completes the abortion. /s
Any kind of gun can complete an abortion. All you have to do it shoot a pregnant woman in the abdomen. Perhaps not the most convenient way to accomplish the deed but it gets the job done. If only the fetus could have it's own weapon to defend itself with, but sadly God has gifted it with no such method, and it can't even defend itself from a pair of toothed forceps without it's mother's assistance.
Lol, this account continues to get funnier.
You ain't seen nothin' yet. ;) Although this is the only instance on this subreddit that I have meant to say something amusing, so while your statement is true I'm not sure what you mean by it.
Someone doesn't have to be pro-gun control to be pro-life.

Lol right because there's no middle ground How about closing gun show loopholes? How about we don't let citizens have fully automatic assault rifles? Edit: You can debate semi and fully all you want but it's funny none of y'all will even touch the gun show private sales with limited or no background checks.
Uhhh..... There have only been three crimes since like 1940 with legally owned fully automatics. They actually are really hard to get ahold of.
No literally all you have to do is modify a semi. Theres gotta be something we can do about that
There's maybe a small handful of guns you can easily convert, and they're all old, expensive, and hard to come by. And it's still illegal to do that. You can't take any run of the mill gun and convert it. If you mean bump stocks like the ones used in Vegas, they're not the same as automatic. I do think bump stocks should be regulated just the same as automatics though, which would make them extremely hard to get. That's a much easier and reasonable law to get passed. You'd be extremely hard pressed to get actual automatics fully banned, and it wouldn't really change anything given how little they're used. Effort is much better spent going after the things like bump stocks and high capacity magazines..... Because those are actually used.
The AR-15 is not fully automatic unless illegally converted. Please learn about guns and gun laws before running your mouth.
It’s still a completely unnecessary weapon to own

You can buy a gun without an ID in some cases at a gun show. Some people are even willing to sell their semi autos there
Not from a gun dealer, that’s illegal. From a private citizen sure. Just like I could post an ad to sell a gun to anyone I want.  Because the FBI won’t let private citizens perform background checks on someone buying a gun from them...
Yes, that's what they're saying.  /s

Still fake news: https://twitter.com/RespectableLaw/status/964187511017869316

You wanna talk about Mental Health? Awesome! Democrats actually support initiatives towards funding mental health, things that were present in ObamaCare, but you wanna take a guess on what Trump and the GOP did? Trump Signs Bill Revoking Obama-Era Gun Checks for People With Mental Illnesses https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/trump-signs-bill-revoking-obama-era-gun-checks-people-mental-n727221 Trump Nixed Gun-Control Rule https://www.factcheck.org/2017/10/trump-nixed-gun-control-rule/ Republicans don't care about mental health either. http://www.baltimoresun.com/news/opinion/editorial/bs-ed-1005-mental-health-20171004-story.html So yeah, you've officially lost any credibility in ranting about mental health too.
Hillary supported an extensive mental health reform
You don't have to be Pro-choice just because you are a Democrat. Edit: but currently thats the status quo.
I am aware of that. But you do admit that the current GOP is practically a fully pro-life party, ever since Reagan was involved? Also, the GOP doesn't do anything to solve mental health issues, which is what they claim solves these issues of mass shootings.
Yeah, I guess I meant that *personally" you don't have to choose a side based on you registered political party, but yeah the GOP is mainly the Pro-life side and doesn't put as much emphasis on social programs and mental health.

Fuck El Salvador.
Some anti-choicers want this to be the reality for women everywhere.
Salvador seriously has to improve their law enforcement and emergency response.

South Bend used to have a clinic, but it got closed down due to paper work issues with the provider. I used to be a clinic escort there, it was a rough time. Notre Dame would bus students in, constant harassment of women getting treatment. Hopefully the new clinic can open up and avoid some of the issues the old location faced
I thought Notre Dame was a fairly liberal Catholic school?
Yes and no. Mostly No. The Catholic university was one of a handful of religious non-profits that sued the government over the birth-control mandate in the Affordable Care Act, citing moral objections to the opt-out procedure offered by the Obama administration. They did reverse said decision last week, however the fought it for years. Now, there are a ton of LGBT students on campus, lots of gay pride flags, "Safe Space" stickers on a lot of office doors etc. But they also fill the quads with crosses for aborted babies, and bus people to Washington for right to life marches. So its a mixed back, but overall i would call them conservative Catholics first and foremost.

Great article , thanks for posting .
What is an ethicist? And what makes their moral opinions more important than the common person? I ask this curiously and not caustically.
An ethicist is one whose judgment on ethics and ethical codes has come to be trusted by a specific community, and (importantly) is expressed in some way that makes it possible for others to mimic or approximate that judgment. For example, a jurist describes an ethicist whose judgment on law becomes part of a legal code or otherwise has a force of law. As described in the article Ethicists are highly educated and have studied the ideas of morality since human inception. Given that abortion is a moral issue, I think someone who studies morality and has an education and background in it, that the common person wouldn't have, is well suited to be an expert on these matters.
[removed]
I wonder how ethical it is for anti-choicers to pretend pictures of miscarriages are actually of abortions, lie about the gestational age of those miscarriages, doctor pictures, and then harass women seeking medical care with pictures of miscarriages.
[removed]
More appeal to emotion... most abortions are done very early and work nothing like that. A lot of them are nothing more than induced miscarriages now, nothing more than a heavy period with a little more cramping.
[removed]
Lol whatever, we’re so worried.
Hi, I'm a bot for linking direct images of albums with only 1 image https://i.imgur.com/CX7kTm1.jpg Source | Why? | Creator | ignoreme | deletthis

This is non that uncommon as people like to think it is: Theodore Shoebat Christian Author: Put ‘Sluts’ Who Get Abortions to Death http://www.patheos.com/blogs/dispatches/2016/04/02/shoebat-put-sluts-who-get-abortions-to-death/#KdgqrOBI7s5mLYPL.99 In 2006 Nellie Gray, the founder of March for Life, spoke of "feminist abortionists", foretelling that the United States would hold them accountable for their actions in trials equivalent to the Nuremberg trials. http://www.nytimes.com/2006/01/23/politics/abortion-opponents-rally-saying-the-end-of-roe-is-near.html Donald Spitz Anti-Abortion Activist: Donald Spitz was friends with Paul Jennings Hill both before Hill killed Dr. John Britton and also afterward, up to the time Hill was executed. Spitz was Hill's spiritual adviser during the last week of his life and was with him when he was executed. Spitz posted a "Defensive Action Statement" on his Army of God website arguing that Hill should be acquitted of murder because Hill's action was justifiable to protect 'unborn children'. http://www.armyofgod.com/defense.html I could post more, but you get the idea.
And yet they still call themselves “pro-life.”
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-abortion_violence Yes, much pro-life/s.
Anti-abortion violence Anti-abortion violence is violence committed against individuals and organizations that provide abortion. Incidents of violence have included destruction of property, in the form of vandalism; crimes against people, including kidnapping, stalking, assault, attempted murder, and murder; and crimes affecting both people and property, including arson and bombings. Anti-abortion extremists are considered a current domestic terrorist threat by the United States Department of Justice. Most documented incidents have occurred in the United States, though they have also occurred in Australia, Canada, and New Zealand. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source | ^Donate ] Downvote to remove | v0.28

Thank you Jivesliven for voting on WikiTextBot. This bot wants to find the best and worst bots on Reddit. You can view results here. Even if I don't reply to your comment, I'm still listening for votes. Check the webpage to see if your vote registered!
I'll have you know there are very few pro-life people who can approve  of terrorism to support the pro life cause. It has proven to do nothing to save the unborn while risking lives on it's own. I personally don't approve of giving people who have abortions the death sentence, as killing them most certainly won't save any lives, and terminating abortionists will only result in new abortionists to replace them.
Why is the preacher in the article I linked so popular then ? He has his own TV studio and has raised a fortune in donations .
I doubt very much that this man approves of terrorism as a way to stop abortion. While he certainly believes that if you have an abortion knowing you are killing a child then doing so makes you deserving of death (and I cannot disagree with him here. No one who knowingly takes human life deserves to live), it is a general pro-life belief that both women and children are the victims of abortion and both should be saved from it's clutches. The people who generally could actually be considered guilty of murder are abortionists themselves, but even they do not need death to stop them. Banning abortion should stop them well enough, so we do not need to convict even them of homicide. The preacher said no more in the video within the article then that "abortion is murder", a believe that I share, personally. But not even murder makes one deserving of death unless the murderer realizes how terrible his crime really is and commits it anyway. Death penalty should be given to those who are dangerous while still alive, not as revenge for a crime that they committed, because we have no right to judge anyone's heart, not even that of the most active and highly paid abortionist.
The man in the article is Jeff Durbin, he does believe in the dealth penalty for women who have had an abortion http://metro.co.uk/2017/02/27/hipster-says-he-wants-to-execute-women-who-have-abortions-6475717/. From the article ‘Whether it’s a mother who kills her child in the womb or a mother who kills her five-year-old twins by drowning them in the bathtub, we would want it to be treated as a murder charge, and for that to be applied consistently under the law'
He said he believes that abortions should be treated as murder under law. And I agree, and have given my opinions on how I believe murder should be dealt with legally. There is not a single thing this man said in this video I can disagree with, but I am certainly appalled by the unfounded accusations made by the pro-choice lady in this video. The more time I spend on this subreddit, the less I trust the people on it. It shows a clear bias to drown out the calls of the people who know what abortion really is, and to continue to let innocent children die without even trying to provide evidence as to whether they are people or not. I hope and pray that God will save the unborn, even if He should demand that to do so I must sacrifice everything I have and am. This man clearly does as well, so I will support him in his respect for the unborn's right to life.
So you agree that women how abort should be treated as murderers?
They should be treated as killers. Most of them are not aware of how severe their crimes are and therefore do not merit such harsh treatment as that of murderers, who knowingly take innocent life. I'm sure some of them do, but I have no right to judge which ones myself. Merely banning abortion should be enough to prevent abortions from occurring for the most part. People who attempt to perform abortions in spite of such a ban are the sort of people who should be punished, but death penalty is probably going a bit far even here, as it won't accomplish much.

'Theodore Shoebat'!

“If I had not been able to receive the safe abortion I did, when I did, this specific little girl may not exist.” I’m confused. She never said her previous pregnancy that she terminated was dangerous to her health, just the baby, so why would that have affected her pregnancy with her daughter? Also, I’m not sure why this anecdote has much to do with abortion law other than arguing for rights to abortion when the life of the child is at risk or practically guaranteed to be lost. However, I’m pretty sure most pro-lifers are okay with abortion in these specific cases, though i don’t have data. If this is the case, then i presume we could all (outside of legislators perhaps) agree that laws should change in that specific regard. Not looking for an argument, just curious.
I suppose it depends.  The emphasis might be on "safe", in which case, she might be suggesting that without the availability of abortion and late-term abortion in particular (because it does require both training and practice), she might've suffered damage to her future fertility and not been able to get pregnant again. She might also be emphasizing that the availability of late-term abortion made it acceptable for her to get pregnant again- that she couldn't bear to bring a child into the world only for it to struggle to breathe and shortly succumb to death, but her option to compassionately terminate helped her feel okay with trying again, should a subsequent pregnancy also have those same sorts of issues. Maybe pro-lifers in general are okay with abortion in the case of severe fetal anomaly, but nobody's told leadership . . . the most recent attempts to ban abortion after 20 weeks, for example, allowed for exemptions to preserve the health or life of the mother, but did not allow exemptions for fetuses with severe abnormalities.Similarly, state laws have been passed that require, for instance, doctors to do unnecessary ultrasounds (sometimes required to show them to the patient) and descriptions or read scripts prior to an abortion, with women coming forward to express how deeply painful they found these regulations when terminating wanted pregnancies.  And I've yet to see the anti-abortion activists yelling outside of clinics stop to ask a woman why she's seeking an abortion (indeed, the "Summer of Mercy" protests used to focus specifically on George Tiller's clinic, which provided late-term abortions . . . the situations surrounding those patients' decisions to terminate was never interrogated).
Okay so we’re assuming the alternative would be getting an illegal abortion, which would be less safe, rather than carrying it to term. Gotcha I suppose not including fetal abnormalities was to prevent abortions due to conditions like down syndrome, which most pro-lifers find morally wrong? However, if this is the case we could just be very specific in our legislation to define what is legal and illegal under “fetal abnormalities”. I’m in a tax class right now and the laws are incredibly specific. I don’t know why we couldn’t do the same with these laws, seeking wisdom from doctors in the process. I could see how an ultrasound of a baby that a woman was aborting out of merciful intention would be emotionally taxing, but i would also think there would be an opportunity there for the doctor to use the ultrasound to remind the woman of why she’s choosing to terminate, though perhaps that is not the status quo. Thank you for the respectful response! :)
I don't know that any legislators who sponsor, co-sponsor, or vote for these bills have ever explained why they don't have exceptions for fetal anomalies (at least, not that a quick cursory Google search during work reveals), but suffice to say, most don't seem to have such exemptions other than North Dakota, nor has anybody tried to do so with more specificity (separating out particular diagnoses) other than Ohio very recently. When it comes to forced ultrasound viewing or description, of course, it begs two questions: 1) why abortion is held to a different standard of acceptable government intrusion into the doctor-patient relationship than other medical procedures, and 2) do we really want to make women suffering what's often one of the most difficult decisions of their lives into collateral damage?  Because collateral damage is what it is- saying "I know it sucks that you actually desperately wanted this to be a healthy pregnancy, but you're going to have to get the same shame talk because we daren't miss out on the opportunity to lecture to someone who just didn't want to have a child right now."
The difference between abortion and other medical procedures should be pretty obvious I think, given that a full term pregnancy results in an extra-uterine baby. No other medical condition does that. Whether this matters is where the arguments get heated, but I don’t see how you could say pregnancy isn’t unique, and therefore may need to be treated differently
I think she means that if she would have carried the pregnancy to term, knowing that her baby would not survive and would pass painfully, it would have altered the timeline that may have lead to her daughter's birth.


I heard that "natural" methods only work if you are regular. There is too much variance in most women.
Does anyone know if this was using rhythm method or fertility awareness method?  The article talked about rhythm method bit then talked about taking temp.
The Natural Cycles app uses temp, I believe.

Donald Trump was recently named the Pro-Life person of the year by Operation Rescue: https://www.lifesitenews.com/news/president-trump-named-pro-life-person-of-the-year-for-2017This sentiment is shared by much of the Pro-Life movement as well, which continues to support him.Given this recent "honor". Let's take a look at the Trumps and their previous views on Abortion:Donald Trump in 1990: I am very Pro-Choice. https://www.nbcnews.com/meet-the-press/video/trump-in-1999-i-am-very-pro-choice-480297539914Donald Trump Jr. said he was "totally for" gay marriage because "it just meant more women for me." In that same interview, he also expressed rather liberal beliefs on abortion—"I wish the Republicans would drop it as part of their platform" https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/08/us/politics/trump-russia-kushner-manafort.htmlIvanka Trump was also pro-choice. During her days as an elegant Manhattan billionaire’s daughter-about-town, she and her husband, Jared Kushner, donated money to a group known to back abortion rights, Democrats in New York, and socialized with progressives. http://www.newsweek.com/does-ivanka-trump-back-oppose-abortion-rights-565454For all the Christians and Catholics here. Donald Trump says he doesn't need forgiveness from God. Quote: "I Think if I do something wrong, I think, I just try and make it right. I don't bring God into that picture. I don't." For the Catholics supporting Trump, think about that when you are at the valid sacrament of confession. http://www.businessinsider.com/trump-on-god-i-dont-like-to-have-to-ask-for-forgiveness-2016-1Donald Trump cheated on his wife multiple times, and allegedly had an affair with a porn star. http://www.newsweek.com/donald-trump-cheat-melania-780249Are people allowed to change? Sure they are. But I find it HIGHLY doubtful, that a former pro-choice liberal suddenly starts genuinely caring about God and the Sanctity of life the moment he needs to run a campaign and get votes.
LOL ok. I wonder how many abortions he's paid for?
People will do anything for votes, I'm willing to bet most anti-choice politicians are hypocrites. Wasn't there one recently that pressured their mistress to have an abortion after working to implement laws to take away abortion rights? Apparently he only has a problem when it is the woman choosing what to do with her own body, men deciding for women is fine.
I too find it hard to believe that Trump truly believes that the unborn are actually people, but regardless he has proven to be a great help to the pro-life movement in the US. I was astonished that he decided to be pro-life at all, but his policies seem to prove that he will support the pro-life cause for the most part. I suspect (without proof) that he is invoking the assistance of his vice-president, who is actually very pro-life, for matters involving abortion. I have no right myself to judge Trump's motives, so I will refrain from doing so. As long as Trump remains a supporter of the pro-life movement I will continue to support him (unless someone better comes along), regardless of his reasons for doing so.
Would you describe yourself as a one-issue voter in this regard?
In this regard? Yea, I would say so, if I were old enough to vote (which I will be by 2020). There are other reasons I might or might not want want to vote for someone, but this seems to be by far the most significant issue as of now. I doubt very much Trump's other policies could possibly get so bad that it would be worthwhile to vote pro-choice.
Well, Trump's other actions include being willing to use the defunding of CHIP as a bargaining chip.  Would avoiding the preventable death of born children affect your voting decisions?
To avoid the death of born children I would change my voting decisions if the deaths of born children approached anywhere close to the number of abortions that would be prevented if Trump remained. Considering the astronomical number of abortions done in the US alone, not likely. Even if it didn't I would shift my support to a better pro-life candidate if possible. Also, can you stop disliking my comments please? I don't appreciate that.
Alright.  Well, how about policies that would reduce the number of abortions by reducing the number of unplanned pregnancies? Haven't done it.  I think I might have upvoted you once actually.
I think such policies are a good idea in theory, but are likely to be performed incorrectly. The government would probably attempt to do this by simply providing contraceptives, which, in addition to still preventing humans from properly reproducing and therefor defeating the entire purpose of sex, also have to be able to prevent a viable zygote from properly implanting in the womb in order to work well enough, thus being abortifacient  themselves. Other policies, however, such as instructing people as to the humanity of an unborn child, would be vital to the prevention of abortion. The best way to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies is to show the people that not wanting a pregnancy you already have is like not wanting to raise your child to adulthood after it is born. Sure you can dislike having to suffer the labor pains being pregnant just as you may dislike having to spend time, energy, and money raising a born child, but you have no more moral right to dislike the existence of the embryo than you do to dislike the existence of any other innocent person. If everyone understood this, it would not be necessary to ban abortion, as no one would actually have abortions done and abortionists such as yourself would be out of a job. But convincing everyone of this is a task that is nearly impossible. We must first convince enough people that abortion is wrong that abortion can actually be banned before we can take on the daunting quest of converting all the world. Well if it wasn't you than I apologize for accusing you and will accept the closeness of my comments being disliked to you commenting on my comments as a coincidence. But regardless, whoever did downvote my comments has undone it so I'll forgive them regardless of who they are.
Ahhh what a shock, another anti-choicer that is against birth control... Who would have guessed. Women who don't want children right now or ever are not going to remain permanently celibate just because you and your religion (I'm guessing Catholic as usual) views us as nothing but incubators with legs. Sex is fun and not everyone wants to get pregnant every time they have it.
XD wow you are even more sarcastic than my sister. Yes, I am Catholic and proud to be. As a Catholic, I believe that we have more reason to exist than just simply to satisfy our own desires, and have been trained (indoctrinated, you might say) to think about what I am doing before I do it. Now, as shocking as it may seem, I have never had sex before. I do, however, know from my feelings that having sex would indeed be, as you say, quite fun. God has given us (or, if God doesn't exist, coincidence happens to have produced in us) the ability to wish to have sex without thinking about it carefully (probably because if we had to think about it carefully most people would decide against having sex and humanity would go extinct). As a result, it is our duty to think about it carefully ourselves with our supreme intellects (which is unique to our species) rather than our animal instincts. Deciding to have sex for any purpose without at least the additional intention to reproduce is detrimental to the continuation of our species (at the very least. At the very most it is a decision to abandon wisdom and choose to perform an act outside of God's grace). That is not to say sex shouldn't be enjoyed; God has generously (or chance has pseudo-generously) made it so we can have sex several times before a child is actually generated (probably to prevent the population from increasing too rapidly), so we can still enjoy sex plenty of times even if we wish to have children. But sex for solely the purpose of enjoyment is unwise and unsafe for our race, which I have a duty to protect as a member or it. No one should be forced to have sex, but those who do should do so wisely.
Using birth control when you don't want children is having sex wisely. Not everyone is Catholic and not everyone wants children or multiple children. And most people aren't willing to practice lifelong celibacy when they don't want children or have had all of the children that they want. Hence, why almost 100% of the American population has used birth control as some point.

You're wrong about a lot of things! Nope!  Reproduction is not the entire purpose of sex.  I have had a bunch of sex, and I can guarantee you that most of it had completely separate purposes.  I am the expert on what the purpose was for that sex. Nope!  If this happens, it is an exceptional mechanism of action of IUDs, not a typical mechanism of action. Nope!  Abortions disrupt pregnancies.  People without an embryo implanted in them aren't pregnant. Nope!  Some people will still be pregnant and not want to be pregnant.  Screw your government and what it tells me to do. This is not how people and wants work. And if everyone thought like I did, it would not be necessary to ban abortion either. You do realize that I want to reduce the number of unplanned pregnancies, right?  And I'm doing a heck of a lot more about it than you are, apparently. I'm sure they'll sleep easier with your forgiveness. Seriously, if somebody downvoted you, you just roll with it.  What do you think my average comment rating on /r/prolife is?
I see no reason we should be able to have sex except to reproduce. The desire to have sex is merely there to encourage you to have sex, so that people actually do it and mankind does not die out. Having sex simply to enjoy it is an act not well thought through. Not that you shouldn't enjoy having sex but you should do so considering the welfare of humanity and of any zygote that could have formed as a consequence. If you know of another reason you should have sex, I would like very much to hear it. Can you translate this into slightly less confusing technical terms plz? Your wording is confusing me and making it hard for me to respond to this. Actually this is true. The technical term "pregnancy" refers only to the time the embryo is attached to his mother. I used the word "abortifacient" to refer to the extermination of a fetus, embryo or zygote (all of which are considered by me to be people), which was an inaccurate use of the word, I admit, but seemed more prudent than "killing an unborn child". Yes, it seems like a hopeless case, especially with people like you around. But if there's one thing I have learned, it is that you should always strive to do what is right, no matter how challenging it may be. I probably will not be able to even come close, but it's worth a try. But regardless, if the people will not all be convinced, abortion should still be prevented to prevent the death of the 1,000,000+ embryos and fetuses aborted in the US alone every year. Just that they understand this doesn't mean they'll like it. As you said, many people will still be pregnant and not want to be pregnant. But at least they will understand why they have no right to do anything about it. Again, it sounds like an impossible situation to produce, but still worth a try. Well obviously. If everyone thought like you they would believe that the fetus is a worthless person-shaped lump of meat that could possibly spontaneously transform into a human upon leaving its mother alive, in which case it merits no protection whatsoever. Or at least I think that's what they would think. I doubt there is much purpose in trying to convince you, who has seen the dismantled remains of a fetus with your own eyes, as to the humanity of a fetus if you do not believe it is human already, but morbid curiosity begs that I find out for sure. Do you believe that the unborn are persons? And if you do or do not, why? I said unwanted, not unplanned. My primary objective is not to stop pregnancies that have already happened, planned or not. My objective, and the objectives of the most organized pro-life movements, is to show women that the embryos inside them are people with a right to life, eliminating unwanted pregnancies by showing the people who have them that the organism growing within them merits protection and love from them. People who's hearts do not consist of cold, hard steel, which is unfortunately a surprisingly low portion of the population, hopefully incorrect statistics seem to show, will suffer great emotional difficulty when they have an abortion if they truly believe that the embryo within them is a person, and may even learn to love the child that comes from their undesired fertilization. Believe me, when I am fully educated and released into the world on my own, you will tremble at the number of unwanted pregnancies I intend to eliminate. I hope so too. I generally sleep much better when I know I'm forgiven for any misdeeds I've committed during the day, which is one reason I am so glad to be a Catholic. Your right, I should ignore downvotes I get on this subreddit. I don't have to think, I've seen it XD. Pretty terrible but not as bad as I would have guessed. I guess both pro-life and pro-choice are guilty of severe misuse of the downvote key.
That's fine.  Then I recommend that you not have sex except to reproduce. I can see plenty of other reasons, myself, so I'll keep on having sex for those reasons. Nope!  It's not there for that reason. In fact, in my worldview, it's not there for any reason at all.  We are purposeless atoms in an uncaring universe; there is no underlying intent to our hopes and dreams.  It's up to us to make the kingdom of heaven here on Earth. But!  Evolutionarily speaking, you're also wrong.  Multiple species have co-opted the feels-good part of sex and used it for bonding or recreational purposes. Heck, frequent masturbation reduces the risk of prostate cancer for men.  Do you want more men to have prostate cancer? I guarantee you, I have thought through it very well. Now, I'm not saying it's all the time, but a lot of the time when I'm having sex, there's really very little chance of any zygote being formed. And of course, any act we do should be done with a thought to the welfare of humanity.  But there's a time and a place in this world for a little self-care and a little care for somebody you care about.  And if that care happens to involve sex, then I see no reason to stand in its way. Yes, I do!  Because it feels good. A lot of studies have looked at whether or not modern IUDs prevent implantation.  It's a surprisingly hard thing to study, and so it is hard to be sure.  One thing that makes it hard to study is that zygotes fail to implant sometimes in people without IUDs.  So we know a few things.  We know that people who are sexually active with IUDs have fewer failed implantations than people who are sexually active without contraception.  We also know that, if IUDs cause failed implantations, it is very rare.  It's very hard to say that they never cause failed implantations. I know that it is true.  That is why I corrected you about it. I actually work to help people who don't want to be pregnant... not become pregnant.  You, as far as I can tell, don't.  (Of course, I don't know what you do in your free time, but I'm guessing none of it is something that has been proven to reduce the rate of unplanned pregnancies.) So really, you're the one making it more of a hopeless case. Nope.  I believe that personhood is a function of cognition.  I think that fetuses don't think. I request that you read the following before asking further questions on the subject: https://www.rcog.org.uk/globalassets/documents/guidelines/rcogfetalawarenesswpr0610.pdf Why would I tremble at that number...?  This is a very silly thing to say. Hopefully, on your way to finishing your education, you will become a little less confidence in the supremacy of your worldview. Knowing that this conversation is with a Catholic schoolchild has made things make a lot more sense. I hope you resolve your strange views on human sexuality in a healthy and productive way.  (Incidentally, as you've stated them, they don't agree with Catholic doctrine either.)

Are you not worried about your movement being tied to the Trump Administration despite his scandals? We already are seeing this with Generation X. One of the biggest reasons that the upcoming generations are leaving Christianity is due to perceived Christian Hypocrisy, and we see that in the case of Trump. Do you not think something the same will happen with the Pro-Life movement? https://www.barna.com/research/atheism-doubles-among-generation-z/ Also, you mentioned you were Catholic. How do you feel about Trump making fun of the Eurachrist? A tradition and sacrament that is integral to the Catholic faith? *https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Zvtl5emEEI
Most pro-life people are against abortion because they believe the unborn are people. It is only evidence, not scandal, that could truly change people's minds on this subject. I am not as worried about this being an issue for the pro-life movement than for Catholicism. As for Trump insulting the Blessed Sacrament, I'm uncertain that is his intention in this instance. Trump is a protestant, so he does not believe in the Eucharist. Some protestant churches give wine and crackers to their congregation as a symbol of Christ, but not even they profess that this is actually the Body and Blood of Christ. While this is quite insulting to the Blessed Sacrament, I doubt Trump is fully aware of this, not being Catholic.
I highly doubt Trump thinks anyone who is middle class or lower income are people.
I fear so, which is why I would prefer  to support a pro-life politician who I trusted more than trump. But either way, he's been doing a good job, and for him to stop doing a good job would be grounds for impeachment.

Are these people insane?
Is it the first of April already ?
I mean, I see what you're saying, but it's not like they have another contender to vote for, and the party did say they might be lending support to a write-in or independent candidate instead.  But yeah, it does speak to what their party stands for/represents when a Nazi's like "Oh heck yes, I'm absolutely a Republican."
Exactly. Quote from the Article: "[Mr. Jones] described himself instead as a long time as longtime Republican who stands "shoulder to shoulder, philosophically," with President Trump." It says a lot regarding the Right Wing support for President Trump and the Republican party.
Wow. That is pretty ridiculous. I must pray for this man, that he will defend all lives, not just the unborn.
So you still support him?
Depends on whom he's running against. So probably. Don't live in Illinois tho, so I don't have to.

I like your video.
Thank you so much that means a lot! if you are interested in more content like it subscribe because I have a lot of things planned (:
This video needs links to sources. You should try to include sources in your video if it is on such a controversial matter. Just a word of advice.
I'm pro-life and I enoyed you video. How would you feel if we say double the funding planned parenthood got but made it so they didn't help in abortions in anyway? Edit: Downvoted for asking a question/starting a conversation....really people?
Nope we still want abortion available as an option for unwanted pregnancy  , hence ‘prochoice’. How do you feel about free contraception and mandatory sex and relationship education at schools ?
For me personally I'm for free contraception. I'm okay with sex education but I am not okay with it being mandatory. Relationship education appears to something in the UK. From looking at https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/283599/sex_and_relationship_education_guidance.pdf I would be okay with this Also, again not mandatory.
I think it should be mandatory, my Mum was never educated about menstruation by her parents and she thought she was dying when she started her first period!
That sounds like a terrible experience. Sorry that happen to your mom. Do you live in the UK?
Yes , I am a Londoner
Being a pro choice individual I believe in a womans rights to choose. But I would respect the pro life movement a lot more if majority of them thought the way you do. I commend you on knowing the first step to limiting abortions is contraceptive care. when you mention taking it away what are your thoughts when it is a health related issue? or a rape case? are you completely 100% against or do you just want stricter regulations. I am someone who is pro choice but I personally would not get an abortion unless it was medically necessary. But I also live comfortably and have stable income. I see it as just because thats not a decision I would make for myself I dont believe I have the right to make it for other women.
I'm going to break down my answer in a few parts. "your thoughts when it is a health related issue?" To me If a woman's life is in danger and the only way to save the woman is to abort the baby, I can understand and respect this. Better to save one life, than to lose both baby and mom. "or a rape case?" This one is VERY hard to answer, being that I am a man and have never been raped. Very hard to imagine what a woman goes thru when this tragedy happens. I have asked my wife (who is also pro-life) and she as said she simply doesn't know what she would do. If she could have the child. Ideally I would vote for the woman to have the child and give it up for adoption.  I am not sure how realistic that would be for anyone to do. I am open to at least looking at options. I would be okay with the morning-after-pill. Something that PP does provide. Both of these scenarios appear to be somewhat are when talking about all abortions. Depending on the year looks like rape/medical makes up 5% or less of all abortions.  http://www.johnstonsarchive.net/policy/abortion/abreasons.html A few points to add: It often feels (to me) that people want to make any issue an A or B choice. Never any middle ground. I feel that is wrong. I feel like all issues (abortion/gun rights/immigration/etc...) Should be talked about and consistently debated.
In the US a rapist can fight for cusdou of a child. Are you willing to have a rapist raise a child?
If a man is convicted of rape of a  woman, no he shouldn't have a say in that childs future.
If is a huge word. And it takes time to the convicted. And what about a man who isn't convicted but did commit the rape?
Sorry. I can't do it unless he is convicted. Innocent till proven guilty.
You are aware that gulity people are found innocent? That people don't always report rape?

This circumstance that you describe is very hard to achieve.  The only medical scenarios I can think of for this are ones where the pregnant person is very likely to die regardless of whether or not an abortion is performed. Most scenarios where an abortion is done are because carrying to viability would present a high risk (say, between 10-50%) risk of death.  Would you require these women to carry to viability?
Welcome to one of the biggest circle-jerk subs on Reddit. You can't even state actual facts that go against the pro-abortion rhetoric here without being downvoted into oblivion. Oh well. Who cares about Karma anyways.
What are these facts? Please provide sources for them.
[That you can be pro-life and support the ACA]  (https://www.reddit.com/r/prochoice/comments/7u24tt/fewer_infants_died_in_states_that_allowed/dtkl153?utm_source=reddit-android). Edit: Down voted again of course! 😂 Just for linking a factually correct comment posted in this sub that also got downvoted.  You guys are something else. I don't care, you can downvote me all you want. But you know how hypocritical this way of thinking is.
Looks like you got owned though.
How did I get owned for pointing out not all pro-life people hate the Affordable Care Act? The OP is purposely polarizing the issue and I was calling him/her out for it and got downvoted.
it's kinda like, "not all men" yes, we know that pro-life people aren't a hive-mind who all think the same thing. that's not the point. the point is that MOST pro-lifers don't support the ACA
Then what exactly is the point of pushing the false perception that all pro-life are against ACA when it is not true?
What exactly are you arguing against? Your original "this is a generalization" comment? It didn't seem to be a reply to another comment, so I'm guessing it was in response to the article? The title referenced the "pro-life crowd" not "literally every person who is pro-life"
The title of this post literally says " the Pro-life crowd hates the ACA" which is not always true. I simply pointed out this fact and got downvoted for it even though what I said is true. Maybe I am misunderstanding the language this OP uses and you can explain to me the difference between the "pro-life crowd" and "literally every person who is pro-life" because it sounds the same to me.

You obviously care that you got downvoted lol, if not you wouldn't constantly mention the fact that you got downvoted.

I hope so.
Hi everyone,I've been getting into some heated discussions with a friend of mine who is firmly in the pro-life camp. She might not be all the way into the loony bin side of things, for instance personhood doesn't begin at conception as far as she is concerned; but in the interest of "caution" since no one can agree when personhood does begin, its best not to risk it and just ban abortion.She seems to rely quite heavily on the argument of "if someone gets pregnant, they knew the risks and shouldn't have engaged in that behavior" which as far as I know is classic "anti-sex" rhetoric. However she does make exception for life of the woman and rape (probably), but NOT for contraceptive failure (them's the risks).Also she doesn't subscribe to women's bodily autonomy argument at all.Suffice to say, I don't think I as a man am the most effective person to argue in favor of a pro-choice position. I was hoping some of you might have some suggestions for various blogs, articles, editorials that would be helpful in at least getting her to understand the other side at least a little.Over the years I've found some interesting ones, but mostly dealing with debunking anti-contraception forces within the pro-life camp (and thankfully she isn't that far gone). Also I've lost those links :(Anyone got anything?
Is she interested in having her mind changed? Is being pro-life part of her identity?
The first question to ask (beyond "Does she actually want to engage in this dialogue?", given that it sucks to be the non-consenting recipient of a persuasion campaign) is whether she knows and understands the arguments of the other side.  Sometimes it can be easy to change minds when beliefs are borne of ignorance or misunderstanding (and even if they aren't changed, it can at least lead to better thinking about the subject).  It's always pretty surprising how just a little knowledge can impact one's views. Beyond facts and statistics, personal stories can also make a big impact- if not in changing one's mind, then often at least in generating a little more compassion.  For that, you can do no better than learning other people's abortion stories.  My preferred method is podcast format like Abortion Diaries or Choice/Less simply because you get to hear people describe their situation and decision in their own words, but reading accounts can do the same thing.  It's all about realizing the humanity of the women involved, and their thought processes, and the complexity of their lives, which often don't fit neatly into the boxes we want to sort things into. And lastly, tactically, find the areas she's most sympathetic to and work from there.  It does little to push against a brick wall (i.e. if she doesn't believe in bodily autonomy at all, that's a dead end). But ultimately, I'm a big believer in just learning everything you can about abortion, and hearing as many people's abortion stories as possible (all of them- the positive, negative, and neutral ones).  People start forming ideas and opinions based off this information, and often feel less defensive than if they were presented with an argument, you know?
Hello! Here is a good argument showing how consent to sex is not consenting to pregnancy. http://www.patheos.com/blogs/lovejoyfeminism/2012/10/when-you-do-the-thing-that-makes-babies.html A good article on why Banning Abortion utterly fails and does not work. http://www.businessinsider.com/anti-abortion-womens-health-effects-2016-7 Another fairly good essay explaining how abortion is not murder. http://capitalismmagazine.com/2006/11/abortion-is-not-murder-so-called-pro-life-movement-is-anti-human/ A very good Pro-Choice Persuasive article as well. http://jdkolassa.net/2013/06/abortion-is-not-murder-why-i-am-pro-choice/ Hopefully that helps
Thanks I appreciate the article links so far. If anyone has more, even better. To clarify: First, she brought up the subject not me, if anything she might be trying to convince me of her position. Second, my only goal in engaging in this topic of discussion with her is not really toward changing her mind on the subject, but more to expose her to different perspectives. She is catholic so that carries with it a whole mess of baggage and indoctrination.
I actually find this insulting. How are you implying we are "indoctrinated"?
I use the word indoctrinated because it is something happens more often than not in religious circles. When someone is educated with a curriculum that is circumscribed by specific religious tenants that is not a recipe for critical thinking. Now don't get me wrong, not everyone who is subject to indoctrination succumbs to it, but it is an uphill battle to be sure.



No.
you don't think so? i could really use some hope
It's never too late. Women in the beginning of the feminist movement had to perform abortions underground. If things keep going bad, we'll go back to that.
how would we learn to do that? and how would women even know of such services?

And on top of that anti-choicers in states like Texas and Mississippi, most southern states really, work tirelessly to force women to give birth against their will, while these states have some of the highest maternal mortality rates in the country, and when it comes to maternal care the country is already lagging behind the rest of the developed world as it is. They don't care about "life", if they did they wouldn't be trying to force more women to die giving birth, abortion is a lot safer for women than pregnancy and birth. They only seem to care about controlling women and punishing them for having sex. Anti-choicers did everything they could to get rid of the birth control provision in the ACA and to an extent succeeded, even though the best way to prevent abortion is through providing low cost, reliable birth control and comprehensive sex education. Where are all of the anti-choicers campaigning for low cost, easily accessible birth control and comprehensive sex education?  The pro-choice side actually supports and provides measures that reduce the unplanned pregnancy and abortion rates; comprehensive sex education, no copay birth control, equal pay for women, low cost childcare, parental leave, etc.  The anti-choicers seem to mostly berate women seeking healthcare (abortion, birth control, Pap smears, mammograms, etc.), tell women to just keep their legs closed and practice abstinence unless they want a child nine months later, form fake clinics to lie to women about abortion and their pregnancies, and pass laws that take away women's access to legal abortion, birth control, and actual sex education.
This is generalization. You can definitely support the ACA and be pro-life. It's not constructive to lump those who don't agree with you on one issue into another issue group when it's not always true.
Of course you can. And yet, for the most part the so-called "pro-life" community hated the ACA, voted for people who pledged to repeal it, and supported the efforts to repeal it. Of a necessity. I can't talk to or care about every single forced birth advocate, and frankly the opinions of whatever tiny minority who do support the ACA are irrelevant when compared to the huge, overwhelming, majority of "pro-life" voters who hate the ACA. When dealing with politics we have to deal with broad movements, the existence of individual forced birth advocates who don't agree with the huge majority of their political allies basically doesn't matter. There are also advocated of forced birth who support free contraception programs, but they're such a tiny minority that they essentially don't exist. They can be taken into consideration when they have political power.
This type of attitude is ignorant and counter-productive to this an any other cause. It's not a fair strategy to  intentionally generalize a group as one homogenized bunch and then get upset if they do the same to you. It's not right to intentionally push something as a "fact" when it is not always the case. If you're going to argue, argue fair.
Look cuz, if you're a forced birther who likes the ACA, great! Congrats! You're also statistically meaningless. Same as liberal gun owners are, same as liberal Christians are. Yes, such people exist. No they aren't worth bothering with because they're such an extreme minority that it's a waste of money, brains, and time, to try and deal with them except on an individual level as friends or acquaintances. Trying to form policy around an extreme minority is a losing game. Virtually all forced birth advocates also hate the ACA. That's a fact that can be used to shame them and possibly make them sufficiently ashamed that they STFU for a while and sit out an election cycle or two. That's the only thing that matters. My goal is to enact pro-choice policies. Doing so requires winning elections. The existence of a tiny minority of forced birthers who also support the ACA is nice, but irrelevant to those goals because they lack the numbers to matter electorally. The only strategy that wins elections in the USA is firing up your own voters while demoralizing the opposition's voters. A secondary strategy, that doesn't have a very good track record of working but looks possible, is converting non-voters into voters for your side. Attempting to convert voters from the other side is simply not possible on a large enough scale to be worth spending resources on.  On an individual scale it can work, on a mass scale it isn't cost effective. Therefore my question here is: will this fact fire up our base, demoralize their base, and have a possibility of inspiring non-voters to vote for our candidates? I believe it will, therefore I promote it. I believe I am being entirely fair. I'm not being nice, but I do think I'm being fair. I will also argue that fairness is way, way, down on my priority queue. If nothing else the 2016 election proved that "taking the high road" is nothing but a route to electoral suicide. I have no intention at all of putting fairness to scum who want to enslave women to their uteri ahead of winning. Now, by pure chance, it also happens that I think I'm being fair here. But that's coincidence, not because I value fairness above crushing the enemy in the elections. And, in case you didn't notice cousin, they haven't been exactly fair to us since, well, ever. Fuck 'em.
This is exactly why the world is so devided right now. People condem one side for doing something wrong, and then do the same thing themselves and feel it is justified. Also I am a liberal gun-owner. We minorities do exist and don't appreciate being lumped together as a whole. People are individuals and can have different opinions from their "group".
As the wronged party it is not up to us to take the abuse they have shoveled out cheerfully and extend the hand of friendship to our abusers. Let them apologize, make amends, and take concrete steps to stop the abuse and murder their side dishes out. Then, and ONLY THEN, will I accept that it is necessary for the pro-choice side to be even slightly conciliatory. Because, maybe in your precious little minority bubble you missed it, but the forced birthers are still employing propaganda explicitly designed to encourage stochastic terrorists to murder doctors and blow up clinics. After the murder of Dr. Tiller not one single forced birth organization apologized for their role in his death, and stopped using the deliberately inflammatory language that they were employing specifically to encourage the deaths of others. Many forced birth organizations openly celebrated Dr. Tiller's death and hold up his murderer as a hero. So yes, fuck 'em. When they have EARNED forgiveness I'll forgive. Until then, fuck 'em.
This is the same rhetoric that terrorists use. Not the same outcomes of course but this same way of thinking. If your argument is valid then just be fair and honest and people will agree because it's right. Being reactionary is actually just an obstacle to your outcome.
I hope you'll forgive me if I don't take strategic and tactical advice from my sworn enemies? Why would I take the advice of someone like you, someone who wants women to live as slaves to their reproductive system on anything? And you calling me a terrorist is laughable. Quick question: how many forced birth leaders have been murdered by pro-choice activists? Answer: zero. How many doctors have been murdered by "pro-life" fanatics?  Answer: seven. Plus many more stalkings, beatings, kidnappings, and attempted murders. And that's not even getting into arson, bombings, and other property crimes. Only one side is using violence and the language that leads to violence here, that would be your side. And you have the sheer unmitigated gall to scold me for not being nice to the people murdering those on my side?
"They did it, so we should do it too!" This is hypocritical and goes against the cause.
False equivilancy. Your side is currently, right this second, actively attempting to recruit people to murder doctors. I was a little mean and accurately stated that your own personal extremely minority opinion was not worth my time. You want to say those two are the same. I don't know why I'd expect better from a person who believes women should be chained to their uterus.

And, as I mentioned, it's great that you consider yourself to be a nice forced birth advocate.  You're lying to yourself since you're still using the same inflammatory lies of the people you want to claim you're different from (like claiming abortion is equivalent in any way to the Holocaust), but its nice that you want to pretend you're better than the other forced birth scum. But, again, I don't really care. You and the ACA supporting forced birth scum DO NOT MATTER because you're such a tiny minority you can't matter. Enjoy being a special snowflake different from your fellow forced birthers. I really don't care. My single criteria on this matter is simple: do you support a woman's right to abortion? If not, then I'm your enemy and don't really care much about the factional differences in the forced birth community. I'm sure there are Klansmen who favor gun control, I don't try to court their vote either.
This "either you're with us or you're against us" thinking is not a balanced starting point if you truly intend to change minds. People can have a differing opinion than their main social/political circle but may tune you out if you are not open to fair argument.
As previously stated, I am not out to change minds. The rate of success there does not merit the cost of attempting. I have two goals. The first is to demoralize your forced birth fellow travelers and cause them sufficient shame that they stay home on election day. Every one of you who stays home is basically a vote for the politicians who favor my policies. My second goal is to outrage and inspire the people on my side so they get out and vote on election day. I'd also like to see I can stir up enough outrage against the villains on your side that some non-voters get out and vote for politicians who will favor my policies. Trying to convince forced birth advocates to change position is not even on my agenda. The task isn't genuinely impossible, but the turnover rate is so low compared to the effort required that I see no point in trying. The people on the side of good didn't win on civil rights by being submissive and nicey nicey to the racists in hopes that they'd stop being so racist, they won by outvoting the racists. The people on the side of good in the LGBT rights battles aren't winning by trying to convince the bigots to stop being bigoted, we're winning by outvoting them. We on the side of justice, good, and light will not win against the forces of darkness trying to enslave women by trying to convince individual forced birthers to stop being evil. We will win by outvoting you and grinding your policies to dust. Then, decades later your children will be ashamed of your evils and the world will have moved on past your medieval superstitions and misogyny.
Good luck with your "shame campaign". We all know how well those work! 😉❤️
So, I am new to this subreddit, so sorry for my late reaction, but I feel like I have to write something about what's happening in my homeland since late 2016. As you may know, Poland has already the one of the most restrictive abortion laws in Europe. The cases in which abortion in Poland is legal are, since 1993:When the woman's life or health is endangered by the continuation of pregnancyWhen the pregnancy is a result of a criminal actWhen the fetus is seriously malformedIt's highly conservative compared to the most of the Western world; In there, abortion is usually legal on request. The main cases of such conservatism are:The high percentage of Catholics (about 90%, data from the 2011 census), who are usually pro-lifeHigh influence of the pro-life groups such as the Ordo Iuris institute or the Catholic Church in politicsThe ruling party- PiS is very conservative and pro-life.In April 2016, Polish organizations proposed amended legislation to ban abortion in all cases except to save the woman's life.  The bill included penalties to abortion providers with up to five years of imprisonment. It passed and was debated in Sejm (the lower house of the Polish parliament), beggining 22 September 2016. The majority of the Sejm was with it. A competing bill proposed abortion law liberalisation, but it was rejected. If the pro-life law would pass, Poland would have the strictest abortion laws in Europe, together with Vatican and Malta! On 22 September 2016 the law was debated in Sejm. On the same day, the Razem party organized a demonstration, named Czarny Protest (The Black Protest), initiated by Małgorzata Adamczyk, who is a member of the party. People protested on the streets of various Polish cities, wearing black clothes. Those who couldn't come took selfies in black clothed and shared them to the social media, under the #czarnyprotest hashtag. On 1 October there was a large protest near the Sejm building. On 3 October many women went on strike. By October 5, politicians started to distance themselves from the abortion ban. And on October 6, lawmakers voted the bill down. In 2017, the women protested again because of the anniversary, and to promote their bill, Ratujmy Kobiety 2017, which had similar postulates to the former year's project. Meanwhile, the pro-life activists created a new bill that restricted abortion. It got signed by 830K people and got to the Sejm at January 10. It didn't get rejected this time, even though there were protests against it. I hope that my article was helpful! Sorry for my spelling mistakes. I'm Polish, so my English is worse than a native speaker's.

Here are some other articles about this story: The New York Times: Senate Rejects Measure to Ban Abortion After 20 Weeks of Pregnancy lgraham.senate.gov: Graham, Senators Introduce 20-Week Abortion Ban in the Senate - Press Releases - United States Senator Lindsey ... mcall.com: Republican Party Articles, Photos, and Videos - The Morning Call mcall.com: Democratic Party Articles, Photos, and Videos - The Morning Call The Hill: McConnell tees up vote on 20-week abortion ban dailydot.com: The financial costs of an uninsured abortion Washington Post: Abortion ban bill fails to advance in the Senate The Hill: Dems block 20-week abortion ban Politico: Senate defeats Trump-backed 20-week abortion ban USA Today: Senate blocks 20-week abortion ban bill GOP pushed to get Democrats on record washingtonexaminer.com: Senate rejects bill banning abortion after 20 weeks Los Angeles Times: Senate halts House-passed bill to ban abortion after 20 weeks ThinkProgress: 48 Senate Republicans just voted for a radical abortion ban. And so did a few Democrats. nationalreview.com: Senate Fails to Pass 20-Week Abortion Ban motherjones.com: The Senate Won't Pass a 20-Week Abortion Ban, But Pro-Lifers Will Still Celebrate Tonight indystar.com: Donnelly one of few Democrats to back anti-abortion bill CNN: 20-week abortion ban fails to advance in the Senate I am a bot trying to encourage a balanced news diet. These are all of the articles I think are about this story. I do not select or sort articles based on any opinions or perceived biases, and neither I nor my creator advocate for or against any of these sources or articles. It is your responsibility to determine what is factually correct.

Thank you Jivesliven for voting on alternate-source-bot. This bot wants to find the best and worst bots on Reddit. You can view results here. Even if I don't reply to your comment, I'm still listening for votes. Check the webpage to see if your vote registered!
Very sad that 3 democrats voted for a bill that is so clearly unconstitutional.
Yep. If you’re in IN, WV, or PA, call your Senator and tell them how disappointed you are that they supported this.
"....Nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law." ~ Amendment 14 There is nothing more tragic or that causes me greater sadness then that the Supreme Court should use the very text of the constitution designed to protect the Innocent people of the United States to permit the horrific and bloody destruction of millions of unborn children. I cannot believe that abortion is constitutional, in any form or at any stage.
For further information on Fetal Pain, please check out my post here: https://www.reddit.com/r/prochoice/comments/7fckiv/debunking_the_fetal_pain_at_820_weeks_argument/?st=jd10iz3c&sh=c62af715

Anti-sex and pro-birth combo,please.

The classic argument of the morality of abortion seems to be where life begins. If I were to concede the point that life begins at conception and say abortion as currently practiced is wrong (at least I think they kill it in womb I'm in no way an expert) but say that if we are not killing the baby but simply removing the unborn child from the mothers womb which in turn would likely cause death, how would someone who is pro life respond?
I think that this is a great question to propose. I want to make sure I am understanding the question correctly so allow me to rephrase what I think you’re saying and please correct me if I misunderstood: if we were to concede the idea that an embryo or fetus has a valuable life (as though it is has equivalent moral status as a newborn infant or toddler) and if that means it would be wrong to directly kill the fetus then it would seem that the current abortion procedures would be wrong because they are a clear act of killing the fetus. What if we developed an abortion procedure which simply removed the fetus from the uterus intact without directly killing it? This would be a case that is more similar to removing the support from the woman’s body. (A philosopher named Thompson came up with an argument in defense of abortion that used something similar) how would a prolife person respond? Here is the response that I think would be best: if a procedure was developed which simply removed a fetus from the uterus to outside the woman’s body (before the development stage of “viability” when a fetus can live outside the woman’s body like a premature baby) then the fetus/embryo would die because of the environment being unsuitable to its survival. The prolife person would argue that this act is a much less clear case of killing, but still killing the fetus. If you took a newborn infant and placed it outside in freezing cold weather, could you try to argue that it is not a case of killing the baby? All you did was simply remove the baby from a safe environment (a warm house) and place it, alive into an outside environment in which it cannot survive. I think this is a less clear case of killing then let’s say if you smothered the infant with a pillow, but anyone you ask will say that you are morally responsible for the infants death. The same concept would apply to a removal abortion procedure. I think that there is a lot more to be said about a woman’s right to her own bodily autonomy as it plays a role in the morality of abortion that I’ve explained here, but I am trying to be as concise as possible.
First off, you interpreted my question correctly, thanks for playing along as devils advocate. I shall now give a rebuttal (which I hope you will do as well). As to your last point of bodily autonomy, I would also like to stay away as I think once I conceded the fetus is a life on par with the woman you lose that argument. By comparing my scenario to leaving a child outside in cold weather you have essentially conceited that abortion is just negligence. I'd already like to think that's a big win for pro choice as now its just a forgetful mother as opposed to a massive baby serial killer. However I think you can go further to say the woman is in the right as while its true that removing the fetus will cause it to perish that wasn't the point of removing it. The goal wasn't to have it killed but simply the woman no longer wanted to deal with pregnancy. Therefore while its true that the result was the same, the intent, which is all that really matters anyway, at least according to most predominant religions and philosophers of the deontological approach which is most famously associated with Immanuel Kant.
(Pro-life person here, not trying to pick fights, just want a friendly discussion) About the leaving a newborn infant in freezing cold weather, while it is negligence, I don't see how it could be viewed as "just a forgetful mother".  Leaving a child out in the cold is intended to kill the child, just not leaving blood on the parent's hands.  The leaving a child out on block I think we can both agree is very intentional.  While the child has a chance of survival, this doesn't address the issue which is the killing of the child. I think the argument"while its true that removing the fetus will cause it to perish that wasn't the point of removing it. The goal wasn't to have it killed but simply the woman no longer wanted to deal with pregnancy" is somewhat flawed. Think of this scenario: Somebody is presented with this note "kill a family member to have a better life"  If the person killed the family member, the excuse, "it's true that the family member died, but the goal wasn't to kill the family member.  It was to live a better life," would seem ridiculous.  This is how pro-lifers would see that argument. Edit: formatting
That's called misoprostol, which induces uterine contractions. Routinely used as an abortion method in very early pregnancies.
I was just in a low-key debate with a pro-life person on this reddit page, and decided to cut it short -- the discussion was moving into "how many angels can dance on the head of a pin?" territory. I can't remember the exact term for it, but it's when the type of scenarios that rarely if ever happen are cited as a reason to prohibit or require certain behaviors. Pro-lifers won't accept "simply removing the unborn child from the mothers womb" on the basis that it actually will lead to the fetus' death. The argument from my pro-life opponent was "Imagine a scenario where a father takes his baby girl to his remote cabin in the woods. A severe snowstorm hits and they become trapped. There is enough formula to feed the child and sustain the father. I think we can both agree that this father must care for his child. He must feed his child. Wake up in the middle of the night with his child. Until he is in a position where he can relinquish control of the child in a safe way he is obligated to care for her. In your opinion, how is this any different than an elective abortion? ... This is where I go to the conjoined twins example... Ok, so imagine that the kidney donor finds out after the operation that their one kidney will not sustain them any longer (but they can't reclaim the kidney from the donation recipient)." These were used as arguments regarding whether it's moral to force a pregnant woman to carry a fetus to term as opposed to an elective abortion. I gave up when the cojoined twins put in an appearance. Legally, I think it's called ridiculo ad hominem -- an argument or discussion taken to the point of being ridiculous. (please correct that term if it's wrong; it looks wrong). Far as I'm aware, a fetus earlier than the 27th week has no chance of surviving outside the uterus, so expelling it  -- even without damaging it -- is bringing on death. Why isn't the pro-life contingent funding research to develop an artificial womb that could nurture a fetus at any point in its development? Or better yet, more effective birth control? Reversible sterilization for women? Why is their position that women MUST allow their bodies, blood and organs be used to keep a fetus alive? No other human is required to donate their bodies for the benefit of another, and certainly no men have ever been forced by law to give the use of their bodies to anyone for nine months (at least, not in the US). My argument: Anti-abortion laws discriminate against women and literally enslave the female body in a way men's bodies aren't susceptible to. If life is all that precious, why aren't men and women forced to donate blood against their will to strangers? I hope I haven't gotten too off-topic with these comments. They seemed to link with the original question by XEnforcerX, and I'm interesting how the rest of you answered it.
Well your argument accidentally touched on something else I feel strongly about with your main claim."No other human is required to donate their bodies for the benefit of another, and certainly no men have ever been forced by law to give the use of their bodies to anyone for nine months". Its called the draft. And it most definitely is, or at least was in U.S. and STILL doesn't require women to enlist. Sorry, different argument, for a different time. Putting on my philosophy hat, I've never heard of a ridiculo ad hominem, probably is wrong, but it obviously must be some form of ad hominem which is an personal attack and while I'm sure the argument was ridiculous, I think that unless the person was attacking you and not your argument its not an ad hominem. Reaching back to freshman year philosophy 101, I believe what you are referring to is called a reductio ad absudrum. But whatever that's just semantics.
reductio ad absurdum -- THAT'S IT!! Thank you! (my mind shuts down after 8 pm ) Yes, you're technically correct about the draft. Comparing required military service (which, incidentally, I believe should be demanded of both men and women, if it's ever reintroduced) to denying women abortions is a great example of reductio ad absurdum. I just can't see the correlation, but perhaps there is one. My overall opinion/feeling is that a potential human life (fetus) is less valuable than the life of a human outside the womb. The rights of the female who is pregnant with the fetus supersede the rights of the fetus and the right of culture/the state to either forbid or demand abortion. No argument will get me to change that opinion, but I do thank you for being part of a rational discussion on the topic.
While I'm not saying I disagree with the overall sentiment I feel the specific argument is weak for a couple reasons. We do find many cases of where we choose life over bodily autonomy. Even if we didn't that would be a classical case of is therefore aught. Which is the philosophical way of saying that just because something is someway doesn't mean it necessarily follows that it should be that way. Using the same logic that all people have bodily autonomy therefore women aught to be able to have abortions, in the 1700s one could say, all blacks are slaves therefore they aught to be slaves.
Who decides what "should" be a certain way? And on what basis? Is it a decision made for the good of the state, the group, the culture? Who makes the "laws" that govern our sense of right and wrong? Like belief systems, "right" and "wrong" can change and mutate over time. Two hundred years ago, here in the US, adults having sex with children wasn't considered offensive or a crime. Children were "property" and the male parent literally had the power of life and death over them. Gay marriage is another example. Part of our society has no problem with it; drive 100 miles away, and gay couples can't get a cup of coffee or a wedding cake without being hassled! And each side firmly believes the other is wrong in their beliefs. One other comment you made: "We do find many cases of where we choose life over bodily autonomy." The operative word is "choose". Whose choice is it, and whose should it be? Is it the state's choice, or the individual's? And who decides?
I'll address the latter question first frankly because its a simpler response. We is in this case the state. Discussing what rights the state has I think frankly takes us into a entirely different realm and obviously depends on where you fall on the political spectrum ranging from anarchy to dictatorships and while I wouldn't say its irrelevant to the conversation, I'm tired but I will say that the above comment to which I was responding said that there's no other place where we find x to be true and I responded that that is false. There are other places where x is true. plplplpl (too lazy and tired to actually get the full name) names a bunch below. As to your first question well... while your first opened a can of worms this one must open pandoras box because it brings so many things to the table. Honestly the easiest cop out is God and I would be intellectually honest with myself answering that because I do believe in one. However I won't do that because I'm stupid and this conversation could go some really fun places and I don't believe its fair to impose my morals based off my belief system on others not of the same system of beliefs. So really there is no good answer for this. Many philosophers just give up with this one and give some weird cop outs. I'm generally a believer in that you can do what you want so long as you don't harm anyone else. Generally decisions should be made for the good of the state as after all if I'm a mass murder and its my passion its best for me if you don't put me in jail but best for the state if I do but only to a certain extent as if I own a profitable business it would be in the governments best interest to take over the business, where exactly the line is is a REALLY hard question that I won't claim to know the answer for. As far as I'm aware no one makes laws governing our senses of right and wrong except for some really pretentious philosopher and religions. Governments don't and shouldn't care what you think, only what you do. Sorry if I missed any questions or my writing is sloppy and incomprehensible, I'm hungry and tired. Please reiterate if so.
Such as...? I can’t think of any...
The draft, Mandatory vaccination, Court ordered, blood transfusions, Suicide watch, Anti drug laws, Prescriptions, Assisted suicide. There are more I think.
Ad hominem would be to say “you’re an idiot if you hold that opinion” it’s insulting the opponent essentially. Just wanted to complete that thought.
I am prolife and I've used the conjoined twins example. I've had varying responses from prochoicers but none have said it's ridiculous. I wonder, why do you think this analogy is not relevant? I mean, we have to compare pregnancy to something.
It's like the person trying to come up with one rare example of a particular side after another. "But what about... "(then five minutes later) "Okay, but what if..." My reason for calling it "ridiculous" is that cojoined twins are extremely rare -- they don't occur in one out of every 1,000 births. But unwanted pregnancies do occur frequently, and citing a very unusual, irrelevant example as a way of arguing against them is illogical.
Um, I still don't really understand? Why would rarity make something a bad analogy? I see pro-choicers use the violinist example quite frequently here. That's not even rare or real. That's just a metaphorical scenario. Does the frequency with which a thing occurs change it's morality? For example, if being conjoined were more regular would it be more permissible for them to kill each other? Thanks for trying but I just don't see your point.
I've never heard of the violinist example (Note to self: get out more). I'll try to respond further when I figure out what it is.
A friendly reminder: get out more
I will, I promise! But until then... what IS the violinist example?
See here.
Please actually learn the current medical methodology and practices before attempting this debate.
Alright I did some quick googling which told me that I was generally right and most of the prevalent methods kill the fetus inside the womb before removing it. Now you tell me how knowing the nitty gritty details is in any way relevant to my question.
Quick googling? Oooh....oh dear. Do you know whether you used reliable sources? And no, you are not "generally right" and those methods you deem "prevalent" are questionable.
http://americanpregnancy.org/unplanned-pregnancy/abortion-procedures/ https://www.emedicinehealth.com/abortion/article_em.htm#abortion_preparation But no, please continue to demean my intelligence, don't give any sources for your opinion, don't actually give an answer yourself for the "current medical methodology" and definitely continue to attack me for a side point that isn't at all the basis of my original post.
Attack? Demean? Please show me where. I've merely questioned your sources of information. After reviewing your sources, I still question them.  I'm an Information Science professional, and have previously worked in a reproductive health clinic. Your first source is incredibly biased and unreliable, and your second source is marginal. However, this is what one generally finds when Googling. I think that questioning your understanding of how abortions actually medically occur is relevant, and in fact, key to your proposed thesis.
I've long done the whole "Yo, you're right, it's not my body, so I'll just take some misoprostol or labor-inducing drugs and gently let the lil' guy out, and it can take its chances on survival, and you should have no problem with that, right?" argument . . . . . . it tends not to work.  They understand fetal viability, and understand, as we all do, that removing an embryo or fetus from the womb environment prior to viability will necessarily lead to its demise.  Even though they don't like using these particular words, they do feel that a pregnant woman is obligated to act as an incubator for the duration of a healthy pregnancy, and that anything less than that is acting as a murderer. In other words, it's not gonna fly.
How would you counter the ‘ natural law’ argument that the foetus ‘ belongs ‘ in a uterus . It’s not commonly used but some anti abortion people occasionally make it .
Sorry, I'm not familiar with this argument. Could you expound?
Two issues: At most gestational ages, methods that remove the fetus intact are slightly riskier than methods that remove it in pieces. This is the kind of compromise argument that will make nobody happy.  Pro-life response, "oh, I didn't kill you, I just threw you out the airlock."
Yeah I'm not even going to pretend to know much about abortion methods. I actually really like your response. I think its the best counter argument on the thread. Honestly I couldn't think of a good counter on the spot, I'm not going to throw a garbage response at you, I'll sleep on it and see if I can come up with a good one.
No worries.  Do you have questions about it? Cheers.  Sorry some users were a jerk to you on this thread.
Why not post your question on the prolife sub?


Excellent response to many (but, of course, not all) pro-pregnancy arguments. I've found I can identify the anti-sex "pro-lifers" by their opinions on gay and lesbian sex, transgender individuals, bisexuality and, of course, birth control. How is consenting adult sex anyone's business if it's not happening right in front of them? If that's too "in their faces", ask their opinions on heterosexual relations between a couple who cannot conceive a child, whether due to the woman's age or physical condition. The ensuing stammering and topic-changing is hilarious!
This opening comment is distracting from the entire article. A man can't have an abortion, does that mean he can't empathize? Is a woman who has never had an abortion also underqualified to comment? Does a man also not have a stake in a pregnancy, if not obviously different? He is right about the rest of his argument. Pro life is driven by anti sex.
I am pro-life and can right now assure you I am not anti-sex. I believe that every man and woman is obliged to perform their part in the continuation of the human race, whether that be to have children themselves or to contribute to humanity in some other way. Anti-sex ideology, abortion, and contraception are all in direct defiance of this objective (not to say that lack of education, disease, and abuse are not also in direct defiance of this objective, but they are relatively insignificant). I believe that you are totally entitled to have sex and to enjoy doing so, but my view is still despised by many because I believe that you should be cautious to ensure that if you do, your children will not be uneducated, abused, or exterminated in cold blood. If you think that THAT is anti-sex, then you should probably think carefully about what sex is actually for.
You may not be anti sex overtly, but your ideas about sex (that people have an obligation to have children) are antithetical to freedom of self determination. Men and women on earth aren't here to be obliged to do your bidding. They aren't obligated to have children. I'm not sure how you can lump that together with contributing to humanity in some other way because that is a huge range of options. To the point of being absurd that you even said it. You claim that anti sex ideology, abortion and contraception are all in direct defiance of this objective, but how can you say they're in the direct science of contributing to humanity and some other way? You can't because you're seeing something with such a plethora of options that this statement is just wrong. To summarize your views, you're not anti sex, you just think that abortion/contraception are wrong and people are obligated to proliferate and you compare abusing children and murder with abortion. I guess I was wrong about my original statement. I will correct it. Pro-life is driven by anti-sex ideals, except when it is driven by dogmatic religious ideals that equate abortion with murder and do not value the basic human right of self determination.
Are my ideas against the right of free choice? They most certainly are, assuming that the fetus is not a person. While you have done plenty of accusing me of placing abortion on the same ground as murder and abuse, you have provided not a speck of evidence that abortion is not in fact murder. Until you do this your accusations are meaningless. This is not my bidding. This is my conclusion considering what I have been taught and applying it to what I have seen. I lumped reproducing with "other contributions to humanity" in order to demonstrate that the first was actually more important than the other (though I realize I failed to stress this). Before we can ensure that there are good people in the world, we must first ensure that there ARE people in the world. It is more important to allow good people to exist than it is to prevent bad people from existing. Considering my above paragraph, anti-sex ideals, abortion, and contraception are in direct defiance of the primary objective of making sure there are people in the world. Additionally abortion is killing fetuses, so I must remind you that you must give evidence that the unborn are not persons before you can condone it. Not everyone is obligated to proliferate because other people can do it. It is only necessary that everyone contribute to the continuation of our species. In the event of circumstances of potentially apocalyptic magnitude, we may be obliged to reproduce in order to prevent humanity from going extinct, but in this situation especially it is important to raise your children properly. The vast majority of pro-lifeness is cased by dogmatic religious ideals, not anti-sex ideals, but you are making no attempt to prove that these ideals are false in their assumption that the unborn are persons, meriting protection under law. You must prove that the unborn are not persons before you can say that my religious ideals are false in that regard, and to do that you must (A) define what a person is, (B) show that the unborn do not fall into this category, and (C) if they do fall into this category (which I doubt you believe) that they do not merit protection under law.
Why do anti-choicers act like there aren't currently 7,500,000,000 people in the world? Everyone doesn't have to have children, this isn't the Handmaid's Tale.
You did read my whole comment, did you? Because the population is as large as it is, the population has plenty of people in it to reproduce. No one individually is obliged to reproduce, and humanity is designed with a great desire to reproduce that prevents everyone in the world from deciding not to simultaneously, which would spell certain doom for humanity. So long as people use their instinct for the purpose it actually is designed for, humanity will remain healthy. Anti-sex ideals defy this because they introduce the idea that the instinct to have sex is an evil desire that must be eliminated, which could not be further from the truth. Contraception defies this by allowing people to satisfy their sexual desires without having children, producing the idea that they should use each other for their own enjoyment rather than be united with their partner in the objective of producing life. And Abortion, the true climax of them all, defies this by destroying the life generated by sex, by telling people their fetuses are parasites to be extracted rather than children to be loved. I notice you have decided to ignore the entire point of my argument and simply complain about the least significant statement in my entire comment, which I probably shouldn't even have included here. So I ask you directly: Do YOU believe that the unborn are persons, and if you do or do not, why?

SC is about to vote on a bill to grant personhood to zygotes and beyond - aka, fertilized eggs become people. The personhood bill would ban all abortions with no exception for rape, incest, or to save the life of the person with the uterus. This is unconstitutional. It would also ban most forms of birth control and prevent in vitro fertilization. People who have spontaneous abortions (“miscarriages”) may be subject to criminal investigation and arrest. Even many anti-abortion people say this bill goes too far.Here is the Planned Parenthood page on who to call and a suggestion on what to say (though I encourage you to use more gender-neutral language). Residents of SC, if you can, please come to the Gressette Building Room 105 at 11 am on 1/30/18 to show your opposition to this anti-born-people bill.Here is the bill in question, which doesn’t mention rape, incest, or life-threatening conditions - just “personhood”. Also note the insertion of a capitalized god.
Yes this bs has to be stopped. A few years ago this was tried in my state of Mississippi and failed.  Some women I knew were all for it, even though when I talked to them they knew that the birth control they were using (IUD, the pill, implant, depo, everything that isn't barrier basically) would be banned if it passed, they acted like them and every other woman in the state being denied the most effective forms of birth control was no big deal. It was horrendous, but fortunately the measure failed and people in my state are still allowed to legally have abortions and use birth control. The insidious part is anti-choicers don't just want to make safe abortion illegal, they want to make birth control illegal as well.  They are trying to do anything they can think of to control women and punish them for having sex. To them women are walking incubators, not people.
But remember, you’re obligated to have sex with your husband! /s What, you got pregnant when roughly 80% of non-birth control sex (so no rhythm method or withdrawal) results in a pregnancy? Your fault, we aren’t helping you with that baby!
82% of Catholics believe birth-control is morally acceptable compared to 90% of non-Catholics 87% of Republicans believe birth-control is morally acceptable compared to 90% of democrats http://news.gallup.com/poll/154799/americans-including-catholics-say-birth-control-morally.aspx These figures are from 2012, but the nation has only become more liberal since then. http://news.gallup.com/poll/210542/americans-hold-record-liberal-views-moral-issues.aspx Also, I imagine the majority of those that believe birth control to be immoral don’t think it should be illegal. The pro-life movement is not trying to take away birth-control
The Personhood Amendments that anti-choicers regularly try and fortunately fail to pass around the country would make most forms of birth control illegal. Anti-choicers are absolutely trying to take away birth control and make it illegal.
Then explain the statistics that seem to suggest otherwise
What does that have to do with the actual laws that anti-choice groups are actively trying to pass around the country? I legitimately had friends in Mississippi that used, and presumably still use birth control since the bill failed, and then voted to make birth control illegal for them and all other women in our state.
Are you asking what the views of republicans (mostly pro-life) and Roman Catholics (pro-life) regarding contraception has to do with laws some are attempting to pass that take away contraceptive rights? Everything. The vast majority of pro-lifers and pro-choicers agree that contraception is okay and the split between them is very small. Those trying to pass legislation taking away birth control are a very small minority of those who are pro-life and are not representative of the movement. Your anecdote about you hypocritical friends in Mississippi also don’t represent the movement because I’d guess you can count them on one hand. You said the pro-life movement wants to take away birth control which is intellectually dishonest
Prominent anti choice groups endorse and sponsor this piece of legislation in the states and anti choice politicians have attempted in the past to make it a national law, it is absolutely representative of the leadership of anti choicers, maybe not all individual anti-choicers, but their leaders.
Well fuck it then. Let's give to the gametes now! Now your eggs and sperm are people, and masturbation is illegal.
Better send in every nocturnal emission and menstrual cycle!
Your sperm and eggs are no more people than any other independent cell in your body, as neither of them posses by themselves the ability to grow into a fully developed human adult. It is not until the two reproductive cells become one organism that it actually makes any sense to even consider it could be a person. This bill does not deny this as far as I can tell.
How is a fresh zygote any different from any other body cell? It is a single cell with a diploid number of chromosomes. And actually, independent body cells do have the ability to grow fully into adults. Dolly the sheep was created using somatic cells from her counterpart. All these cells can become a human, it jut requires the right conditions, and in a womb, the zygote has those conditions. However, that doesn't change the fact that it is not a person, no more than the cells in your eyes or bones or liver.
A fresh zygote is different from any other cell in that it is able to develop into a fully grown adult human by itself, so long as it is provided with the proper environment and nutrients. A somatic cell cannot do this by itself, and must endure modifications before it is able to grow on it's own, but once it is able to grow into a fully developed adult human if it is provided nothing more than a womb to grow in (artificial or not), I would gladly accept it as a person, but not before. The somatic cell used to produce Dolly was certainly not a true sheep until it had undergone the processes necessary to be able to implant itself in the womb, which would make it able to produce a sheep by itself, given time and nutrients. Likewise, the sperm and egg cells do not qualify as persons until they are able to grow to maturity, given only time, nutrition, and a proper environment. This is not possible until the two cells have made the proper adjustments to each other. Which is why I would not consider the fertilization of a polar body as the creation of a person.
How is this not a direct violation of the establishment clause?
In their minds we live in a Christian theocracy.
That's sick. It's even worse than a radical abortion ban bill that passed in my nation lately, limiting abortion only to life-threatening cases!
It’s been used to force people into surgeries and even killed people :/ I’m so sorry about your regression, I hope you’re able to undo it.

Great! Also, beware of a system in which your ability to obtain an abortion is defended for as many weeks as it is popular.

The world moves forward while many leaders in the US try to make it more difficult for women seeking abortion care :(
Such a divided nation
Boi you can control your urges.
I am not a boi and what would you say to women who planned their pregnancy, want a baby, but have to abort because of terminal abnormalities in the fetus or the pregnancy is threatening the woman's life? Do they deserve to be screamed at and harassed? The answer is no. Regardless of the circumstances, no deserves what clinic protesters do.
Well I can agree to abortion if the woman is in danger or she was raped wait uh oh because it’s 2018 and it’s filled with these politically correct people I should say he/she
Isn't harassment already a crime in the UK?
Yes and no. They have to define it as harassment first , which has not been done before. Ironically it’s been notified before and our right wing government is taking action. https://www.parliament.uk/business/committees/committees-a-z/commons-select/home-affairs-committee/news-parliament-2017/harassment-and-intimidation-abortion-clinics-evidence-17-19/
So far everything I have heard and seen shows that by far the most effective way to show someone that abortion is evil is to show them a picture of it. If you consider this "harassment" then you definition of harassment is very different from my own. While some things described in this are certainly harassment, calling people "murderers" unconstructively or scattering holy water in front of women entering an abortuary (quite a waste of the blessed stuff if you ask me), simply showing women what they are doing is not harassment, it is an attempt to educate. And educate it certainly does.

Saying Planned Parenthood or birth control furthers eugenics in 2018 because Margaret Sanger was a eugenicist in the early 20Th century is akin to saying social security is racist against Japanese-Americans and should be scrapped because FDR signed the executive order 9066 in 1942 to set up internment camps. Services and organizations are more than the sins of their historical founders.
I mean, Margret Sanger did focus mainly on black communities...
And FDR did put Japanese-Americans in internment camps. Did you even read my comment? I didn’t say she wasn’t racist. I said that her being a racist doesn’t mean that Planned Parenthood is carrying out a eugenics campaign in 2018, or that using birth control is eugenics. Edited to add the note about internment camps to reference the entire point of my original comment, which appears to have been missed by the commenter replying.
Well a disproportionate number abortions are performed on black women as opposed to any other race source dispite most abortion clinics being located in primarily white neighborhoods source so abortion is still pushed more on black women (and Hispanics) than white or Asian women. Edit: source and why did you edit your comment to add the interment camp part? 2nd Edit in reference to above commenter's edit: How does that prove your point?
Black and Latina women get more abortions because they have more unwanted pregnancies, and because they make up s disproportionate number of those living below the poverty line. There are multiple and complex social, cultural, and socioeconomic reasons for both of those. None of those reasons are a deliberate campaign to “push abortion” on black and brown women, and they certainly aren’t related to the racist views of a woman who has been dead for fifty years. That idea is an anti-choice misinterpretation of the data/a willful ignorance of other social factors. Edit: If you’re interested, this article explores the reasons behind the abortion rate among women of color.
More black fetuses have and will be aborted each year than white or Asian fetuses.  I'm just saying it is skewing the demographic growth of these ethnicities even though the facilities are less accessable to black women.
Abortion overall is is decreasing in frequency, and is not occurring at a high enough frequency to impact “demographic growth” of any race, at least not any more than increased access to birth control is. I do agree that limited access to birth control and abortion services in low income communities and communities of color is an issue, and that TRAP laws disproportionately affect those who can’t afford to travel, pay for childcare, etc. What is your goal in posting anti-abortion comments in a pro choice subreddit?
Just pointing out the racial disparity. Sorry.
No, you’re not. You’re trying to prove that there is a present day campaign to eradicate the black and brown population by the pro-choice and reproductive justice movements. But the racial disparity is not the result of a deliberate eugenics movement. There is nothing to suggest that it is, and multiple data to suggest it’s the result of less comprehensive sex ed, reduced access to affordable birth control, and less financial stability to make parenting a child, (more often than not, an additional child, since the majority of women of any race who choose abortion are mothers already) an option, etc. The reason so many pro-choice activists choose the label of “reproductive justice” is that they fight against the racial, economic, class, social, and cultural systems that seek to control women’s fertility and dictate how, when, and if women choose to become mothers. This includes being anti-forced sterilization and pro-birth control and education, as well as pro-safe and legal abortion access. Edit: I accidentally left out a word.
I wish people would realise there is absolutely nothing wrong with the aims of eugenics, only the means by which those aims are often achieved.


I usually call them "pro torture" but this is also accurate.
🤦This is ridiculous. So would you also call pre-natal doctor a serial killer because the mother could possibly die in labor? Would you call a woman who is pregnant and wants to be "suicidal". No. The chances of a woman dying in child birth are not as high as the chances of the fetus dying during an abortion.
Very brave of you to go against the circlejerk.
I call these people self-harmers. It's unlikely they'll die, but they'll almost certainly be injured. Hopefully in future the medical profession will get these people the support they need to stop wanting to hurt themselves, rather than encouraging self-harming behaviour.
I think this article is very dishonest and advocates hatred toward prolifers. Notwithstanding the fact that during every abortion a human being is killed, the facts laid forth in this article are completely misleading. The reality is that higher abortion restrictions are actually correlated with higher maternal health rates. See here, here and here. Prolife nations have continually had higher maternal health rates. And women are not dying in droves which is often how things are falsely protrayed. I refrain from calling pro-choicers, pro-death or pro-abortion because it is a misleading title and not conducive to healthy conversation. I think that this article will only polarize the two sides further and little progress be made. Adding another decent article on the matter. See here
"during every abortion a human being is killed" I would say a potential human being, but that's not the real issue. Here's my disagreement with your statement: Under US law, no human has the right to demand the use of the flesh, blood and organs of another. Not an identical twin for organ transplant, not a soldier in combat for a blood donation to a fellow soldier... with one exception: The law in some states can force a pregnant woman to carry a potential human in her body until its birth. The woman MUST donate the use of her body, blood and organs to keep a potential life alive until it can survive on its own. Why does the law consider a potential human life to be more valuable than that of a separate, breathing human life? What is the moral justification for demanding the use of a woman's (and ONLY a woman's) body to keep another alive when this "service" is not also available to soldiers in combat and people needing organ transplants and blood donations? And why are women who are capable of bearing children the only people required to make this "donation"? If women must legally give their bodies to another, why aren't fathers forced to give their organs to offspring who need a liver or kidney? To a sister who needs a blood transfusion? What is the specific issue, here? Is the issue about punishing the female who became pregnant but doesn't want to be? If women's bodies are to be used against their will to keep a potential human alive, then all human bodies must be treated with the same lack of respect and autonomy to keep all other humans alive.
That’s a lot of great questions. I’m on mobile so I will have to answer them a bit later. The article and my comment were about the idea that without abortion women will die though. I mean we can discuss bodily autonomy till we are blue in the face but I curious about any thoughts on the actual stats on maternal health. I hope ppl don’t downvote so much so we can actually discuss.
"I hope ppl don’t downvote so much so we can actually discuss. " This, absolutely. It's a highly emotional topic, and that's okay if everyone can remain civil. WITHOUT YELLING!!! So, please, no all-caps statements (like that one) and no assaultive language. Everyone is entitled to their own opinion (but not their own facts), and I totally respect body autonomy. If religion is going to be cited, I'm not sure how to address it. US laws do not acknowledge matters of faith as relevant to legal statutes ("the government shall make no laws regarding religion"). Let's see where this goes...
Ok, here goes. I will do my best to give you the prolife perspective. I’m sure we will probably disagree on a lot but at least we can understand each other a bit better. As a prolifer I would argue that in a very biological sense we are not talking about potential. We are talking about a very real and living, human organism. Whether that human has value is more of a philosophical debate. I really think this becomes the biggest issue of contention between prolifers and prochoicers. As a prolifer I would disagree and site a few examples. First is conjoined twins. One can not kill the other on demand and they use each other’s bodies. The other is the fact that parents are required to legally provide for their children even when it means the use of their body. The prolife position is not suggesting you must donate your organs. We are saying that you can not kill a person in the name of bodily autonomy. So for example, a donor donates their liver to a patient. Great. He can not demand his organ back after the surgery is complete despite his change of mind because that would infringe on the patient’s right to life (right not to be killed). Of course these examples might not be perfect analogies but hopefully this gives you a better idea of what we are thinking. The prolife position is that the two lives are equally valuable and both rights must be weighed. The right to life (the right to not be killed) trumps all other rights in every other circumstance. There is no other situation where we are allowed to actively kill an innocent, living human being to preserve our right to do what we wish with our body. Refer to conjoined twins and parental responsibility example. If they were already attached like a conjoined twin they would be. This is also because there is a distinction between negative rights and positive rights. Negative rights require inaction (as in you can not commit an act that kills or harms another). Positive rights require action (as in you must feed, cloth and provide for your child). So while you do not need to donate blood, you also can’t take it back once it’s been done. Absolutely not. Not for me anyway. I am a woman. I am a mother. I have been pregnant. It’s about protecting All living, human beings equally. It’s about using objective criteria to protect all living human being equally to avoid subjective discrimination against certain groups(especially the weak and vulnerable) . It’s about valuing and providing the same protection and rights to all living, human beings. I don’t agree, as I explained above. It’s the difference between the law saying you can not steal the homeless man’s last piece of bread  (negative right to not be taken from) and a law forcing you to feed the homeless man across the street (positive right to feed). The law only compels action in cases of duty of care (like parenthood). Hope this helps!
Good arguments, all. In response, respectfully: “It’s about using objective criteria to protect all living human being equally...” But, no, it isn't. No human is legally allowed to use my blood, flesh or organs (my body) to keep themselves alive without my permission. The only exemption is a fetus that was fertilized and is still within my body. For the sake of argument and simplicity, I'd like to avoid extreme examples such as cojoined twins in this discussion (we can discuss that later). For now, let's look at an “average” example of the typical pregnant woman who doesn't want to be pregnant, for whatever reason (again, we can look into outlying examples later). Biologically, pregnant women are the only adults affected by that criteria. Because it can't include men, my argument is that it's therefore discriminatory against women. Parents aren't legally required to provide for their children. A woman can sign away her maternal rights immediately after giving birth (adoption), and a man can do the same, even if the DNA test proves he's the male parent. Plus, being forced to pay child support isn't equivalent to having your body forced to “support” a fetus. And if the parent(s) are unable to pay the court-ordered support, their organs, body and blood aren't taken from them against their will. (Not saying that would be such a bad thing in some cases, but let's table it for future discussion.) Financial child support rarely covers all the costs of keeping a small human alive, but for the first nine months the female human body most definitely provides 100% of the fetus' needs. “The prolife position is not suggesting you must donate your organs. We are saying that you can not kill a person in the name of bodily autonomy.” I disagree. Forcing a woman to remain pregnant against her will is indeed forcing her to donate the USE of her organs. Yes, she'll get them back after the birth. But by what right does the state (government) demand she permit the use of them? “Positive rights require action (as in you must feed, cloth and provide for your child). So while you do not need to donate blood, you also can’t take it back once it’s been done.” There's a step missing in your argument. Getting an abortion isn't about getting the pregnant woman's blood and use of organs back from the fetus, it's about not having them used further against her will. It's about keeping them from being continually used for the remaining months of the pregnancy. “It’s about using objective criteria to protect all living human being equally to avoid subjective discrimination against certain groups(especially the weak and vulnerable).” I'd argue that forcing women to remain pregnant against their will directly subjects them to blatent discrimination. Pregnant women are being discriminated against when forced by law to subject their bodies to the physical needs of another human. I've tried to be respectful and direct in my arguments for giving women the right to choose how their bodies will be used by another. It's fascinating to have a discussion – even on a topic as emotional as abortion – with someone who debates calmly and rationally. Thanks for providing clear, concise reasons for your beliefs! I hope I've done the same.
I will concede the point that pregnancy is a very unique thing. It is difficult to find a situation quite like it. That is why I bring up the case with conjoined twins. Though much rarer than pregnancy it seems to be more analogous. But if it helps we can move onto the next point about parenting (perhaps tweaking the scenario to reflect a more pregnancy like situation). Ok, I will agree that child support is not equivalent to pregnancy (that is just me feeling and I won’t deny it although a father may feel differently I couldn’t say). But my background in ethical philosophy urges me to make a like comparison when it comes to parental responsibility. Imagine a scenario where a father takes his baby girl to his remote cabin in the woods for a weekend get-a-way. Let’s say maybe to give the mother a break (who knows, the details are not really important). A severe snowstorm hits and they become trapped. It seems they will be stuck for quite a while. Months even. There is enough formula to feed the child and enough food to sustain the father. I think we can both agree that this father must care for his child. He must feed his child. Wake up in the middle of the night with his child. Make bottles, hold and feed her etc. Until he is in a position where he can relinquish control of the child in a safe way he is obligated to care for her. In your opinion, how is this any different than an elective abortion? And I say elective because I am not arguing against theraputic abortions (where the life of the mother is threatened or other rare cases). This is where I go to the conjoined twins example. The state is not saying to the siblings you must donate your organs. That already happened without the states involvement. What they are saying is now that they are in this situation, they can not do anything that will infringe on their siblings right to life (right not to be killed). Ok, so imagine that the kidney donor finds out after the operation that their one kidney will not sustain them any longer. They still don’t have a right to take it back. Unfortunately,  they will still need to get on a waiting list like everyone else. Because their action of taking their kidney back will most likely kill the patient. Or if it’s more helpful see my example about the father stuck in a cabin. He may be to tired to get up, he may not want to use his body to make a bottle or hold his child. But he is still legally obliged to do so. It can be seen as an extra burden on us, I agree. But I don't believe that is anyone’s fault. It is a consequence of our biology. Modern day provides extra options through contraception, NFP, tubal ligations, hysterectomy and vasectomy for those who would like to avoid being pregnant. I believe the government should be involved in helping to rectify this biological disadvantage (if it is seen that way) but not at the expense of someone else's life being taken from them. Thank you. I really appreciate it. I know that I have come into your territory here and I hope I have not over-stepped my bounds in anyway. I feel like I understand the prochoice perspective a little better. At least I believe that for the most part it is driven by people who really care for women and are trying to do what they think is right for them. I think we just disagree on what the right course of action is and probably on the value of a human fetus/preborn child.
Imagine a scenario where a father takes his baby girl to his remote cabin in the woods for a weekend get-a-way. Let’s say maybe to give the mother a break (who knows, the details are not really important). A severe snowstorm hits and they become trapped. It seems they will be stuck for quite a while. Months even. There is enough formula to feed the child and enough food to sustain the father. I think we can both agree that this father must care for his child. He must feed his child. Wake up in the middle of the night with his child. Make bottles, hold and feed her etc. Until he is in a position where he can relinquish control of the child in a safe way he is obligated to care for her. In your opinion, how is this any different than an elective abortion? ... This is where I go to the conjoined twins example... Ok, so imagine that the kidney donor finds out after the operation that their one kidney will not sustain them any longer. An infant that can't feed itself... cojoined twins... kidney donor with failed kidney... At this point, I'm going to end my part of the discussion. Neither of us will ever convince the other. Throwing out bizarre “what if” scenarios won't change anyone's mind.
I thought the discussion was constructive and I enjoyed reading both sides. And "bizarre what if scenarios" can be valuable: one of the most popular philosophical arguments for abortion is Thomson's violinist.
Oh, ok. But I didn't think we were trying to change each other's minds. My goal was merely to grasp the other perspective. Just as a side note, moral imagination, analogies and metaphors are quite common place when discussing ethical philosophy. So, I'm not really sure where I went wrong here. It's kind of like the violinist's argument to prove abortion is not immoral. If you ever change your mind I am still really interested in why any of my imagined scenarios morally differ from abortion? And I am in no way trying to be disrespectful. Thanks for the chat.
While Europe is far more prolife than the U.S., their Maternal Mortality Rate is a fraction of that of the U.S.. Clearly, the causality of this relationship is skewed.
I know certain countries in Europe skew to the pro-life stance, but does that apply to most or all of them? Don't England and the Netherlands have liberal abortion laws? I've learned that maternal mortality relates directly to pre-natal health care, which is pretty much absent here in the US for low-income women. Planned Parenthood did the majority of the heavy lifting until the current administration and Republicans pressured the government into pulling their funding. Gotta protect those cute little fetuses by letting their mothers go untreated and die -- a whole lot cheaper than providing doctors and clinics, too.
In England, abortions are banned unless there are health risks or medical anomalies. In Scotland, I believe there is a total ban, but they send women with complications to England. In most of Europe, abortions are "legal," but with strict limitations to how late, and why. Italy is the European country with the lowest Maternal Mortality Rate, but they ban abortions after 14 weeks. It's likely that the increased Mortality rates - across the board - in the U.S. is related to one of two things: 1) increased medical costs. I'm prolife, but I'm ironically also partial to standardized Healthcare for lifesaving treatments and preventative medicine. 2) Distance to hospitals. The U.S. has significantly lower population density than Europe. As such, the average person is further from a hospital at any given time. Additionally, they are further from jobs, social services, public goods, and basically every other aspect of welfare and social security. This contributes significantly to poverty and illness.
You're absolutely correct about the increased cost of medical care and distance to hospitals as being the main reason for maternal deaths. Disgraceful!!

And this is why abortion restrictions kill women. Pro lifers wave their hands and say "oh well we'd allow it if she was in danger." Meanwhile, in countries where abortion is permitted to save the life of the mother, women die because doctors have to delay treatment until they have a life threatening emergency on their hands.
Again, 91 in a million in the US, and obviously we are different than those countries. Just because they are ineffective doesn’t mean we would be
And how would you be different? The only country where an abortion ban with an exception for women's health works ok is the UK, where abortion is permitted in any situation where the risk of continued pregnancy is greater than the risk of abortion. In practice, that's all pregnancies.
I’m just saying that we could improve, but given the infinitesimal chances of dying in childbirth already, I don’t see this as a huge problem, no more than other causes of death anyway.
Well I think the women who would be left permanently disabled by unwanted pregnancies, as well as the families of those who die, might disagree with you there.
I’ve never heard someone cling so desperately to .0091%. Those facilities are filled with doctors that LOVE working with patients that have that good of odds because pregnancy is one of the few cases where they get to be so confident in a positive outcome. You are unreasonable and rely on fallacious arguments to further your point. We have no common ground, so this apparently pointless encounter is over
Does that statistic refer to the number of women dying in childbirth in the US? You do realize that's after most high risk women have chosen to have an abortion? An abortion ban would make that number skyrocket.
Less than one half of one percent of abortions are done to save the life of the mother, so they definitely would not “skyrocket” as you claim and are not a significant part of the stat i provided.
So murdering one in every 200 pregnant women is ok? There are plenty of women today who take the sensible decision to abort BEFORE their pregnancy becomes life threatening. They wouldn't be counted in your"abortion to save life" statistic, but some of them are alive today because of their decision.
You seem to be intentionally misrepresenting my statements through logical fallacies. This is not 1 in every 200 pregnancies but LESS THAN 1 in every 200 abortions, including women who aborted before the pregnancy became life threatening. If you are concerned with lowering your risk of dying through various causes to zero then you would need to be cryogenically frozen in a bubble in a bunker located in the center of a mountain. You and I risk our lives more by our drives to work than a woman risks while giving birth in this country
I don't drive to work. Nor should anyone be able to force me to do so. Also, a single trip in a car is vastly safer than a single pregnancy: you're confusing lifetime risk with one-off risk. I'm fascinated to hear how you think it would be possible to collect this data.
If you take the risk of having sex, you should be responsible for the 9 month pregnancy sans significant risk of death to the mother. I am comparing the yearly risk of dying in a car wreck, 1 in 645, with the risk of dying in labor, which is 91 in a million. The timelines are similar enough. If you want to look at the studies themselves then here you go. I dont understand why it would be difficult to gather the data. http://www.johnstonsarchive.net/policy/abortion/abreasons.html
These are reasons given. You can say you're having an abortion because you don't want a child and yet still have it save your life. Define significant. Exactly how many people are you willing to kill for the sake of your desire to use children as punishments for sex?
'If you take the risk of having sex, you should be responsible for the 9 month pregnancy sans significant risk of death to the mother' That comment can be construed that unwanted pregnancy and childbirth are a punishment for having sex

Women should not be punished for having sex

I have downvoted you because several things you say are untrue. "19 shocking post-abortion depression statistics" -- I wonder, will #14 shock me?  This is not a good citation.  Independently of your citation being bad, what you are saying is not true. This is also untrue.  In 2013 in 28 in 100,000, the latest year for which data were available.  It hasn't been 9.1/100K since 1987. It's not driven by immigrants.  The group with the highest maternal mortality rate is routinely African-Americans.  It is, however, driven by income inequality. African-American women are more likely than American women of other ethnicities to have unplanned pregnancies; again, related to socioeconomic status.  Once that's accounted for, they're not more likely to have an abortion. I agree that the title is sensationalized and not helpful.  It also contains poor editing (it says abortion is banned before 18-20 weeks in some states, for example). Your post contains lies and a bad citation, though.  Please don't do that.
“I have downvoted you because several things you say are untrue.” Don’t worry, I’ve been subscribed to this sub for only a few weeks, but I’ve learned that respectful or not, objective or not, if you’re pro-life you get downvoted. And if you’re pro-choice you get upvoted respectful or not, objective or not. This has always been an “us vs them” topic unfortunately, but I feel your downvote is justified. “Independently of your citation being bad, what you are saying is not true.” The website isn’t the best, but the point could’ve still been valid. However, after digging a little deeper I have found that the studies suggesting women struggle with depression after abortions are comparing women who have repeated abortions after the first trimester with regular women. This is a bad comparison. “This is also untrue.  In 2013 in 28 in 100,000, the latest year for which data were available.  It hasn't been 9.1/100K since 1987.” Thank you for the correction. It’s still a very low number and the rise from 9.1 to 28 is doubtfully because healthcare is worse now than in 1987 or that pregnancies have become more dangerous. Lack of abortion access could hardly be blamed, however, given that even convenience abortions are legal and available. The cause is probably lack of proper health care for some, mostly the impoverished. “It's not driven by immigrants.  The group with the highest maternal mortality rate is routinely African-Americans.  It is, however, driven by income inequality.” Is this specifically in the south? I’m not saying immigrants might not have quality health care because of the fact that they’re immigrants, but because of the things associated with being an immigrant, like socioeconomic status, as you pointed out, or the language barrier or lack of familiarity with American health care systems, etc. “I agree that the title is sensationalized and not helpful.” My main point. Thank you for pointing this out and establishing what i think should be obvious common ground. “Your post contains lies and a bad citation, though.  Please don't do that.” There is false information in my post, but i assure you i was not intentionally misleading. Had this been a formal debate I would have been more prudent in my investigations, but it wasn’t so i wasn’t. I relied on the opposition to correct my mistakes and you did. I thank you for that and for your respectful disagreement. That is what i search for when discussing controversial issues and i now know more about both sides of this issue.
I have the same experience on /r/prolife and find it regrettable. It could still have been, yes.  That's why I clarified that my objection was independent of your bad citation.  Can't remember the name of the fallacy... that if the argument is bad, the conclusion must be untrue. It's a mix of increased income inequality and improved infertility treatments (so older, higher-risk people can become pregnant). I don't think that lack of abortion access can be blamed for an increase in maternal mortality.  However, that is different from saying, "if abortion is illegal, people will die as a result."  Gestation and delivery is generally riskier than abortion.  If enough pregnancies that would be aborted are replaced by pregnancies that are carried to term, some people will die.  (Please remember in replying to this that I don't think fetuses are people.)  This is a basic approximation -- who knows what would happen to pregnancy rates, contraceptive use, etc.  Ultimately, I'm not interested in trying to take an educated guess at it. It absolutely includes the south.  I don't have off-hand stats about immigrant maternal mortality rates, so I can't rule out that it's secretly a much bigger problem than Af-Am maternal mortality, but... I doubt it?  I've worked in high Af-Am and high Latina immigrant areas. Cheers!  Yaaaaay progress.  Thanks for not calling us murderers along the way. PS: You know that ">" will make the quote things like I used above, yeah?  Just checking in case you don't, not a judgement call.

Somebody didn't read rule 3.
Report and move on.

You realize that murder =/= abortion by law right.Feel free to have your own opinions on the law, but you can't claim he 'supports murder' because it's factually not true.

Those laws were fueled by racism and a dictatorial regime. Not exactly the best counter argument I'd say. Unless you're saying that abortion laws are fueled by the same principles in which case I'd like to hear more
They were The point is, though, you can't say something is or is not moral simply because it is or is not legal.
I never said anything about morals, I said something about you calling it and people who support it murderers. They're not. Unless the law changes, which you're free to advocate for as much as you like
Why are you here?

It’s not nonsense. Making abortions illegal won’t ever stop abortions. It will stop safe abortions and we’ll be back to women dying of massive blood loss or infection after a back alley abortion. Some of those women could already have children, but all of those women have lives and loved ones they would be leaving behind.
[removed]
So you're fine with abortions in the case of rape since the woman didn't make a "stupid decision"?

Bye! The rules won’t be changed because this is a PRO CHOICE SUB
The downvote brigade hasn't arrived, we just see women as people with bodily autonomy and we don't think women should be punished with forced pregnancy and birth for having sex, having their birth control or sterilization fail, or being raped.
So you support abortion in all cases of pregnancy. The risks of delivery are always higher.
A fetus isn’t a baby. A woman should not be punished for having sex nor should she have to risk her life carrying a pregnancy to term.
[removed]
Birth control fails all the time, how is birth control failure a stupid decision?  Hell a cousin of mine got pregnant after a tubal ligation, how is having a tubal ligation fail a stupid decision?
Some birth control fails. Shit happens. It isn’t up to you to tell me what to do with my uterus. It isn’t a living human. It’s a clump of cells, like a parasite. It cannot live on its own.
[removed]
The downvote brigade arrived because you are in a pro choice sub. You’d rip me apart? What happened to caring for all? It is my choice what I do with my body. You cannot tie women down and force them to give birth. The fetus is totally dependent on my body, which I have the rights over. How do you know I don’t have kids?!



Calling people who are anti-abortion 'pro-death' is also a big as fuck hyperbole and shouldn't be ever used as a headline for an article unless you're actively trying to cause trouble
It brings attention to the cause.
Calling people Nazis also does that. Feel free to use it as a headline if you ever write something for free promotion
And what if they are Nazis?


https://rewire.news/videos/2016/05/25/geofencing-works-can-abused/ (Linked from that article.) Whoa.

Thank god for the Satanic Temple!
It is an interesting case, to be sure.  I think it misconstrues what the RFRA is about though.

The book about them is stellar, too.
There is going to be a movie about Jane https://www.google.co.uk/amp/variety.com/2017/film/news/elisabeth-moss-abortion-movie-call-jane-1202563093/amp/
I am excited and a little nervous.
All of us need to read this article. We may have to become "Jane" once more if the Religious Right has their way with America's abortion laws. Abortions performed on healthy women in the first or second trimester aren't particularly difficult to do or dangerous for the patient. Village "wise women" have been performing abortions for thousands of years, along with "restoring virginity" (a couple of small stitches at the cervix). When womens' bodies are considered the property of their husbands, fathers or the state/church, Jane will rise again!
Second-trimester abortions include the 18-20 week range, at which point it's well into the territory of a D&E -- outside the range of the wisest of "wise women" (not that many of my attendings haven't been both wise and women).  Although abortions performed with modern techniques are incredibly safe, these techniques were developed since the 70s. We don't have data on the techniques used thousands of years ago, just hints and suggestions that they may have included silphium and blunt trauma to the abdomen.  The suggestion that lay people trying to provide each other with abortions is safe and easy is a dangerous suggestion. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gerri_Santoro#/media/File:Gerri_Santoro_(1964).jpg (NSFW/NSFL) I don't know which village's wise women you're citing here.  Putting stitches in the cervix certainly wouldn't simulate virginity -- perhaps you're thinking of the hymenal ring? When I think of villages and laypeople putting stitches in the genitalia of young women and girls, I don't think of anything that is safe and I don't think of anything that is wise.
Safe? Nope. Wise? Well, if the alternative is a girl being flogged to death or sacrificed at the stake because her precious virginity is missing, then I'd choose the stitches and hope for the best. Of course, that's not a risk in America (hopefully), but social "shunning" is still a reality in many places. When you're already raising children as a single parent, an unexpected and unwanted pregnancy is a VERY big deal, and an illegal, risky abortion is a viable alternative. If you're a teenager and still in high school, if you're addicted, if you're living on the street, you're even less prepared to go through pregnancy or deal with the hoops the anti-choice politicians have set up for you to jump through. What IS it with virginity being the only quality a woman/girl is valued for? I guess it's a big deal when it makes the merchandise more sell-able, and in many cultures nobody wants to get stuck with a daughter who can't be auctioned off... sorry, married to the highest bidder. ("bidder" meaning a potential husband with property or status that is valued by her father). Same with abortion. "Illegitimate" children were considered a disgrace, and still are in many cultures -- including some here in the US. Until the mid-20th century, abortions were almost always the preferred alternative to adoption, especially when food was scarce. Nobody wanted another mouth to feed, and prior to the introduction of antibiotics, sending a child to a workhouse was a death sentence.
Wait, I thought these were neither difficult nor dangerous, and easily available from your village's wise woman. Your historical citations for virginity restoration are, so far, vague and imprecise, which makes them difficult to reply to.  I am thinking of specific cultural comparisons -- I'm aware of modern-day "virginity restoration" primarily in a Saudi context (done by doctors), and I'm aware of introital tightening and/or infundibulation in an African context (done by people who you might call "village wise women" -- but in these cases, it turned out that men didn't really care if their partners had been "cut," and entire communities turned against the practice together once the right lines of communication were opened).  But I'm not sure we have much more to discuss about it. Huh...?  What? Here's the thing.  I think that you and I agree about a lot of things.  We're both pro-choice.  Heck, I'm even anti-workhouse.  But the way you make your points involves throwing out a lot of vague associations. For example, I don't think that the introduction of antibiotics changed the child mortality rate at workhouses.  Dying at workhouses wasn't a product of a lack of medical knowledge, it was a product of a lack of societal care.
We do agree on almost every issue. By "not difficult or dangerous" I was referring to abortions performed by the Jane Collective in Chicago. Apologies if I didn't make that clear. Vaginal tightening and labial reduction has become trendy in California and, I believe, New York -- similar to  those stitches mentioned earlier. It's a plastic surgery procedure, and far removed from "restored virginity" in intent... or maybe not? Abortions done by medically untrained people are definitely both illegal AND risky -- no argument there. But when I say "medically untrained" I don't mean the procedure should be done only by MDs IF it is illegal and otherwise difficult to obtain. In some states, far too many women attempt to self-abort rather than fill out the required paperwork, make multiple trips to clinics hundreds of miles away, and occasionally sit through lectures about "killing their babies". They need an affordable, easily accessible alternative -- these women are desperate and will do what they believe they have to do. I'm as against the coathangers as you are!! Yes, amateur abortions can be nightmares. But the alternatives were (and still are, in some places) much worse. On the other hand, I had a legal abortion in '72. It was done by a certified MD at a public hospital. But he hadn't had much experience in the procedure and according to his limited and virtually unreadable notes, appeared to have used the wrong technique. I almost died from the subsequent infection. I've never regretted having it, but I believe an experienced RN would have done a much better job, even though it would have been technically "illegal". Workhouses: From what I've read, often child deaths were due to disease such as pneumonia and dysentery (poor sanitation, malnutrition and starvation contributed to mortality rates, too). Lack of societal care is absolutely what  caused or at least contributed to child death -- these were the people nobody cared about. Kids produced the least work so were fed the least, and illegitimate children were a major embarrassment to society at that time. Out of sight, out of mind.
For any procedure, I'd rather have somebody who has done a thousand of them with good results, rather than somebody who has done ten of them with good credentials. I'm reading some good books right now on the development of abortion techniques in the 70s.  I might post about them in a bit.

These unsafe Abortions also take places in where abortion is illegal. Not a surprise.
Here is a list of threads in other subreddits about the same content: I am a bot FAQ-Code-Bugs-Suggestions-Block user (op only)-Block from subreddit (mods only) Now you can remove the comment by replying delete! (op only)
[removed]
You misunderstand the issue of unsafe. It is safe for the woman. Spreading misinformation does not help your side. And since you are anti abortion you better be pro adoption and pro fostering. Pro social programs, pro birth control etc.
That's the whole point, now isn't it? Would you mind if I ask you about your stance on in vetro fertilization?
oh dang i had no idea o jeez ur right so unsafe.  lol why would the guardian even make a mistake like that i thought it was a good newspaper??? /sarcasm
Well that was by far one of the worst comments I have read today.
It just really, really irks me when people pretend willful ignorance about what we mean when we say "unsafe abortion".
[removed]
Tryin'!
Using a throwaway because I don’t usually post on political subs and don’t want to get a million downvotes on my main accountI was asked this hypothetical by my Pro life brother recently. He asked me if a woman should still be allowed to get an abortion if the father wanted to raise the baby. Suppose I, a pro choice woman get pregnant and want to have an abortion because I’m not ready for children. But then the father says he wants to raise the baby. Can he force me to go through labor and have the baby anyways? This came up after my brother asked me why it’s a tragedy when a baby is still born but not when a fetus is aborted. I said it’s because nobody wants the fetus, and he proposed this scenario. I’m starting to think maybe he’s right. Maybe it doesn’t matter if the baby is wanted. What are your thoughts?
Abortion is not (just) an alternative to parenthood, it is an alternative to pregnancy. Some women aren't capable of enduring pregnancy. A small percentage actually experience a phobia of it, and others are just ill-equipt to handle the emotional/physical challenges (myself included.) Some women just don't want to be pregnant. I do not think there's any situation where anyone should be able to force a woman to carry a child she does not want. If she is not opposed to enduring pregnancy and can emotionally handle severing her parental rights, then that is a viable option which many people choose (adoption).
Legally? Absolutely not.
Still a ok to abort it bc it’s still an unwanted resident of someone’s body. Slavery isn’t legal and saying you’d have to carry a pregnancy to term bc somekne other than the pregnant person wants it feels a lot like forcing someone to be in a life threatening situation against their will for months, limiting their ability to interact r normally with others for months, potentially harming their career and family for months.
But it is just as much the fathers baby as it is my baby, even though it spends time in my body. You don’t want to discount the father as a parent
You can discount him.  What if he decided while you are pregnant he doesn't want the baby? What if you have an ectopic pregnancy and he says you can't get am abortion? What if you are in labor and the doctors can save you or the baby? And he picks the baby over your life?
Is it in his body? No? Then he doesn’t get a day unless it gets born. You don’t get to control what he does with his body right? So why on earth would he have any say in what you do with yours? You’re not his pet, you’re a person.
Nah. The reasons people have abortions are often numerous, but usually least among them is whether someone can do the childrearing for them, as adoption is always an option- particularly if you're carrying a healthy baby. The thing is, most women don't want to carry a pregnancy to term only to give away their child at the end of it- they may fear growing too attached during the process and not wanting to relinquish them (or alternatively, feeling deep regret when forced to), worry about the person(s) doing the childrearing, or worry about guilt and regret over their limited (or non-existent) role in the child's life.  When women decide to abort despite possibly wanting children (or, if they already have them, more children) in the future, it's because they want to have a child for whom they have the time, finances, space, emotional well-being, stability, and supportive partner with whom they feel comfortable tying themselves for 18 years (and really, all their lives). Whether a pregnancy not carried to term is seen as a tragedy really depends on the feelings of the people involved.  Because stillbirth usually happens far along in a pregnancy and that typically means someone was intending it to end in a live baby, it's often a tragedy . . . but an-early term miscarriage can be a tragedy for a woman who wanted to have a baby, or a relief for a woman struggling with the decision to abort or not and having it made for her.  A man whose partner decided to keep her pregnancy against his wishes may be secretly relieved at a stillbirth, and a man who wants his partner to keep her pregnancy may be devastated by her choice to abort.  A woman feeling pressured to terminate a pregnancy may come to view her abortion as a personal tragedy, even though it was ultimately her decision.  Honestly, there's no universal value judgment to be placed on any pregnancy outcome- they're all influenced by the situations wherein they arise.
No.  And this is key.  Carrying a pregnancy to term and delivering has risks.  Only the person who will be subject to those risks gets to decide whether or not to undertake them. It's not always a tragedy when there's a stillbirth.  I have known stillbirths where the family was sad, sure, but also a little relieved.  Or a lot relieved. I've also seen stillbirths where only the patient's partner was relieved, but the patient was sad. It's almost as though how tragic an event is depends on whose perspective you're looking at it from. I believe that men should get just as much say in abortion as women do.  Whenever they are pregnant, they get to decide what to do with that pregnancy.  Just like women.
Abortions usually happen before the fetus is capable of suffering.
That would infringe on your bodily autonomy, which is what makes it wrong. Abortion is a right because (among other things) everyone is entitled to their bodily autonomy, which means that nobody can force you to be pregnant under any circumstances.
[removed]
Mods, I think this person's username tells you about all you need to know about them.  Being glad a person was murdered for performing a legal medical procedure and then lecturing us on human rights...
[removed]
Username literally says that Dr. George Tiller deserved to be murdered by a deranged vigilante...


Also from the Article: "Roe v. Wade has brutalized our country," she said. "The feminine abortionists, look at the evil they are doing. From that will come an accountability" Her words were met with strong support, and more than a few supporters held a sign that compared abortions in the United States to "Hitler's Holocaust" Pro-Lifers always like to bring up Margaret Sanger. I wonder how they would feel knowing that the founder and president of the biggest pro-life rally basically advocated for hangings of "feminist abortionists". Such pro life.
"Pro-life" is always going to just mean "opposes abortion", simple as that.  Yeah, it's unfair that they got the moniker that sounds so good (I mean, it implies the opposition is "pro-death" and that doesn't sound good to anybody), but in the end, pointing out the hypocrisy (opposing abortion but supporting war, the death penalty, etc.) doesn't really get us anywhere, at least as far as I'm concerned. Unless I see someone specifically claim that their being pro-life is evidence of other traits, when I see the words "pro-life", I just automatically translate it in my head to "anti-abortion". But yeah, to the content of the article- it's insane and it should be widely understood exactly what the leaders of the anti-abortion movement want: not just for no more abortion, but to punish women.



Planned Parenthood didn’t start providing abortions until 1969, so you can’t conclude that he was pro-choice. I would say it’s very unlikely he was pro-choice because of his Christian faith, but he also regularly cheated on his wife, so who knows? I will add that even if he was pro-choice, we now know much more about prenatal human development than we used to (people still believed in recapitulation theory), so it would be difficult to say that he would still be pro-choice today.
Most of your comment is conjecture. So I am just going to ignore it. But I do want to address your final point about us knowing more about science and thus it difficult to be pro-choice. Science is, in fact, the reason why so many people are becoming pro-choice. The nation is actually becoming more pro-choice over the years. Also public polling shows that the more educated you are, the more likely you are to be pro choice. So your point is refuted there as well. And finally, keep in mind that literally every major scientific/medical organization has endorsed the pro-choice position and has made pro-choice views. American Medical Association: "[We] oppose legislative interference with the practice of medicine and a woman’s relationship with her doctor... Access to safe and legal abortion is an important aspect of women’s health care. Abortion is one of the safest medical procedures performed in the United States." Association of Reproductive Health Care Professionals: “Abortion care is a critical component of comprehensive reproductive health care, and ARHP supports a woman’s right to choose to have an abortion. The decision to continue or terminate a pregnancy belongs to the pregnant woman. ARHP opposes any judicial, legislative, or administrative attempt at the local, state, or federal levels to ban any abortion procedure or medical procedure to terminate a pregnancy.” "The American Medical Women's Association [AMWA] will oppose efforts to overturn or weaken Roe v. Wade, either directly or indirectly, as in the case of legislation which burdens access to the abortion procedure. AMWA considers all such laws and court rulings to interfere with the doctor-patient relationship, and thus to violate medical autonomy and pose threats to the individual as well as the public health." "Safe, legal abortion is a necessary component of women’s health care. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists supports the availability of high-quality reproductive health services for all women and is committed to improving access to abortion.
Wow you took my valid statement about a single person’s view on abortion and ran miles with it haha. I’ll even agree with you that its conjecture, but that’s kinda the point given that MLK never gave a statement on abortion (that i know of). He was all for contraception, however. “I do want to address your final point about us knowing more about science and thus it difficult to be pro-choice.” When did i ever say this? I said that MLK himself may have changed his views on abortion given the information we have today about fetal development. I never extended this to the general population. I am aware of the nation’s pro-choice trend. I am not phased by it. There are plenty of issues over the course of human history that were widely accepted, but wrong. “Public polling shows that the more educated you are, the more likely you are to be pro choice.” I am not entirely sure what your point is, though i can see how that statement is compelling. I would argue that this is purely correlational. Universities tend to be very liberal, so the educated are also surrounded and taught by pro-choicers. It could be a number of things really. You definitely can’t say that increased education on this matter leads to people being pro-choice because there are many doctors, lawyers, engineers, etc. that are pro-life. For me personally, the more i learn about fetal development the more i care about protecting them, and I’m not alone. “Literally every major scientific/medical organization has endorsed the pro-choice position and has made pro-choice views.” I’d be careful with “literally every”. That’s an obvious stretch. I will grant you that most scientific/medical organizations are pro-choice, but science doesnt put any value on any particular human life outside of net worth, so science can tell me what something is but not how valuable it is, so science doesnt dictate the morality of abortion because morality doesnt exist in science. I am not looking for an argument about abortion as a whole. I’ve had so many of those already and they never seem to get anywhere because the people making statements never change, only those asking questions. So please, focus on what i said that was directly related to the original post
I didn't run with anything. I was simply just addressing some of the assertions you made in your comment. Once again look at the title of this post. The title nor the article never said anything about MLK being pro-choice. Saying that would be intellectually dishonest. However, it is not intellectually dishonest to say that he supported Planned Parenthood and he supported their goals. That was the point of this post. It was just to combat the myth's that pro-lifers put out that MLK would have been against Planned Parenthood. Sure I would agree with this too. But let us take a deeper look at the profile of what it means to be "Pro-Life". Studies have been done on this subject deeply. The question of whether abortion represents a "murderous" or a "benevolent" act is addressed in the 1975 article in The Humanist by examining the social-behavioral characteristics of primitive cultures that permitted or punished abortion. It was hypothesized that, if abortion reflected a "murderous" violent act, then the cultures which permitted abortion should be similarly characterized; conversely, if abortion reflected a benevolent act, then the cultures which permitted abortion should also be characterized as benevolent and peaceful. In brief, the following relationships were obtained from twenty-one primitive cultures where coded anthropological information was available on abortion and other behaviors: 55% of cultures that punish abortion practice slavery while 92% of cultures that permit abortion prohibit slavery. 73% of cultures that punish abortion also torture, mutilate and kill enemy captured in warfare while 80% of cultures that permit abortion do not torture, mutilate, and kill enemy captured in warfare. 78% of cultures that punish abortion punish premarital coitus while 67% of cultures that permit abortion permit premarital coitus. 88% of cultures that punish abortion punish extramarital coitus while 67% of cultures that permit abortion permit extramarital coitus. 70% of cultures that punish abortion exploit children while 78% of cultures that permit abortion do not exploit children. Now isn't that interesting? Anthropological studies show us that at a basic human level, being against abortion is also associated with other anti-humanistic behaviors. This isn't just something at the primitive. Studying has been done on the voting records of pro-life politicians of numerous countries. So if we wanna talk about history. We can clearly see that the pro-life perspective is based on punishment and control, rather than actually saying lives. Sources: http://www.violence.de/prescott/humanist/abortion.html http://www.violence.de/prescott/letters/JWP-1989a.pdf While I do acknowledge that Universities tend to be liberal, I encourage you to take a look at the article. Education in this sense also includes post-graduate education. What we see in fact is that those who are pursuing higher education than just a bachelor degree tend to be overwhelmingly pro-choice. And I would wager that the ethos of "Liberal Indoctrination" is much less at the Post Graduate level. http://news.gallup.com/poll/154946/non-christians-postgrads-highly-pro-choice.aspx I will address this point in a bit later. But like I said I have evidence from reputable organizations and reliable data that clearly show a trend back by peer-reviewed data. It's not a stretch. If you think it is a strech, find me one non-religious or non-partisan based group that endorses a pro-life perspective. And back to your earlier point about many doctors and scientists being pro-life. That is simply not true. The majority of these scientific organizations represent hundreds of thousands of Doctors. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists which represents 55,000 doctors who literally specialize in fetal development has argued and fought against many pieces of unsound scientific legislation. Are you really going to try to argue that these vast organizations which represent the scientific consensus on this issue are wrong? With all due respect, it is like trying to argue against Vaccines or Evolution. And I did. MLK supported Planned Parenthood and there is evidence for that. His views towards abortion are mostly conjecture, and I never made a statement towards his views on abortion and if I did I apologize.
"I was simply just addressing some of the assertions you made in your comment." You obviously went WELL beyond that. "The title nor the article never said anything about MLK being pro-choice. Saying that would be intellectually dishonest. However, it is not intellectually dishonest to say that he supported Planned Parenthood and he supported their goals." You posted in the pro-choice subreddit, so it's a reasonable assumption. It is also intellectually dishonest to say he would support Planned Parenthood today. "It was hypothesized that, if abortion reflected a "murderous" violent act, then the cultures which permitted abortion should be similarly characterized; conversely, if abortion reflected a benevolent act, then the cultures which permitted abortion should also be characterized as benevolent and peaceful." This is the definition of the false cause fallacy. There are plenty of correlations that don't mean causation. For example, gun control is positively correlated with standard of living, yet the US is an extreme exception to that rule. There is no reason to believe that if the US banned abortions it would also bring back slavery or outlaw premarital sex, etc., nor would allowing abortion in those harsh countries make the culture more humane. To suggest either or to suggest that those statistics characterize the western pro-life movement is nonsense. "We can clearly see that the pro-life perspective is based on punishment and control, rather than actually saying lives." Clearly? As someone who is pro-life, who knows many individuals who are pro-life, who knows what the pro-life movement is ACTUALLY about, I can assure you that we wouldn't give a damn about what a woman does with her body if it didn't involve the killing of another human being. That is ALL most of us care about: life. The biggest motivator behind the pro-life movement is Christianity, a religion rooted in self-sacrifice, grace, love, charity, humility, and I could go on. These values are in stark contrast to what you claim about us. Your straw man attacks aren't going to convince anyone. "What we see in fact is that those who are pursuing higher education than just a bachelor degree tend to be overwhelmingly pro-choice." 37% is still significant, but I don't care nearly as much about what most people think as I do about the arguments and facts themselves. "Find me one non-religious or non-partisan based group that endorses a pro-life perspective." https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_anti-abortion_organizations_in_the_United_States#National_secular_organizations Take your pick. "And back to your earlier point about many doctors and scientists being pro-life. That is simply not true." Many is subjective and there are many doctors, mostly Christian, that are Pro-life. "Are you really going to try to argue that these vast organizations which represent the scientific consensus on this issue are wrong?" Given that science doesn't care about morality or the value of human life, yes I say they are wrong. This is nothing like vaccines or evolution.
Martin Luther King Jr supported contraceptives but not abortion which he saw as racial genocide. Abortion has always been pushed on the Black and Latino populations.
Yahhhh . . . you're gonna need to give a source for that. Edited to add: "As for Dr. King, we don’t know whether he would have favored access to legal abortion or not. We know his wife did during her lifetime. We know that he wrote about the importance of publicly funded family planning programs. We know that in 1966, his wife accepted a Margaret Sanger Award on his behalf, bestowed upon him by Planned Parenthood 'in recognition of excellence and leadership in furthering reproductive health and reproductive rights.' We know that he served on a sponsoring committee of a Planned Parenthood study on contraception in 1960 and wrote, 'I have always been deeply interested in and sympathetic with the total work of the Planned Parenthood.' But what else could we possibly claim to know about his views on abortion? Nothing." (source)
"The ministers work is also important and he should be trained, perhaps by the Federation as to our ideals and the goal that we hope to reach. We do not want word to go out that we want to exterminate the Negro population and the minister is the man who can straighten out that idea if it ever occurs to any of their more rebellious members." [Abortion rates by race] (https://www.guttmacher.org/infographic/2017/abortion-rates-race-and-ethnicity)
Ah, I'm sorry, I wasn't clear.  The part I'm wanting sourced is "Martin Luther King Jr supported contraceptives but not abortion which he saw as racial genocide."
Based on your previous comments you are trolling.
Really? Do you have a source that backs this up because the article actually doesn’t? I know that his niece is very much involved in the prolife movement though.
What do you mean the article doesn't? "In 1960, King served on a committee for a Planned Parenthood study on contraception, explaining, “I have always been deeply interested in and sympathetic with the total work of the Planned Parenthood Federation.” He repeatedly wrote about why family planning programs are important, and why they need to be funded by the government. In 1966, King received a Margaret Sanger award from Planned Parenthood “in recognition of excellence and leadership in furthering reproductive health and reproductive rights.” Sources: https://swap.stanford.edu/20141218225601/http://mlk-kpp01.stanford.edu/primarydocuments/Vol5/5Nov1960_ToWalterR.Chivers.pdf http://new.thekingcenter.org/archive/document/handwritten-thank-you-letter-mlk https://100years.plannedparenthood.org/
You do realize that PP was NOT performing abortions in the 60s. It wasn't even legal yet.
Nowhere in the post did I say that MLK supported Abortion. I said he simpled supported PP.
Oh, oops. My bad. Sorry.

That's a great decision. Also, I can't help but laugh at all the anti-abortion folks complaining.  I can bet with almost 100% surety that they were perfectly fine with the global gag rule that pulls funding for any overseas organization that even mentions abortion exists, yet also somehow thinks Trudeau's act is "intolerant" and "silences pro-lifers". What's good for the goose is supposed to be good for the gander, eh?  A little different when the shoe is on the other foot?
I hate the term pro-life it is widely inaccurate. Fox and friends don't care about anyone who isn't a straight rich white male. It is laughable they think they are pro life.
True. If one is seriously 'pro-life' then one of the obvious goals would be to move the US health care system to a single payer system like it is out in the civilized world. Do this and perhaps the USA would no long rank down at #37 in the WHO's ranking of world health care systems below winners such as Oman, Colombia, Morocco, and Dominica. There's a lot of life to be pro about in that field.
oh good
Oh please. Anti-abortion views are out of line with US society too. They will probably call Trudeau a soshalist mooslim next.
So today I had a mini scare as I’m late, have had lots of symptoms of being pregnant and got worried. I was talking to a friend and the conversation came up about “would I keep it”. The next thing she said was “don’t kill it”.  Now I was not offended but I was taken back because don’t think she has any idea how harmful those words could be to the wrong person. She is basically making someone feel guilty before they have even had the chance to think about it themselves. Telling someone “don’t kill it” is automatically putting that person in a position where they feel confused and guilty for not wanting it from the get go. So I kindly explained to her in the best way possible to never say those words to someone who is confiding in you. Luckily I’m a very strong willed person and I knew that if I was pregnant, that I don’t want it. And I replied with “well I will do whatever I need to do” It’s not the right time in my life and I’m not financially stable enough. But some poor girl who is confused about what to do could have really been thrown by that comment. It could of swayed her to keep a baby she didn’t want. It really made me think about this anti Abortion malarkey. I want to raise awareness because god forbid abortion was ever to become illegal. It should always be a woman’s choice depending on her situation. I’m 25 and don’t want to go through the changes that pregnancy does to you yet. I’m not ready, and want to have a child when me and my partner choose too.  And all points considered, I currently have the Copper Coil so am already taking the precautions to ensure I DONT get pregnant 👍     Anyway rant over, have any of you had to have an awkward debate when you weren’t expecting to about Abortion?
I had a legal abortion in 1972 (sympathetic medical director at a public hospital) and got run through the gauntlet by "pro-life" counselors who yammered on about how I was "killing my bay-bee!!" Some of the nurses were supportive; one delivered another scolding as I was coming out of surgery (tubal ligation along with the abortion). The doctor who did the surgery was young and unfamiliar with the procedure; I ended up back in the hospital two weeks later with a raging infection. Then, another doctor informed me I'd "never be able to have a baby again!!" in horrified tones. Didn't bother to look at my chart before jumping at the chance to deliver a lecture to what was obviously a tramp who didn't control her urges and should have had to live with the results (a baby is a "result"?). Sure, let's let abortion become illegal again, and we can put more young girls through this bullshit. I was lucky -- I was a hardass and at 23 I wasn't a vulnerable kid. But when 12-yr-old rape victims (and at 12 they're all rape victims) are accused of "killing" their "bay-beez", it's going to get ugly.
I'm so sorry you had that experience. My mother is a nurse in the OR, and whenever a nurse refuses to take an abortion case, my mom will do it, because "it's a medical procedure and it's our job" My mom is pro choice, but yeah, she also makes sure to tell the woman if it's what she wants it's the right choice, and everything will be OK
Hugs to your mom! So much better having her as a nurse than a disapproving caregiver who can't resist mentioning the anti-abortion line.
That’s so shocking that they treated you that way! Whilst in hospital already about to have the surgery!. What a way to make someone feel guilty about an already hard decision. I’m so sorry you were treated that way. It’s not like we take these decisions lightly. Was that doctor just blurting that out or did the abortion cause you to not be able to carry children? I’m so so sorry if that’s the case.  😩❤️
At the same time I had the abortion I had my tubes tied (tubal ligation); as a single mom, two kids were all I could raise and provide a decent life for. The doctor was too busy to bother looking at my medical history before shooting his judgemental mouth off -- he didn't even know the abortion had been approved by his supervisor and performed at the hospital where he was employed! I understand "overworked", but that's not an acceptable reason to treat a patient so coldly. Thanks for your thoughts -- always appreciated.
I'm really glad you have a strong will and didn't let that kind of comment change your mind! I got pregnant from rape and had an abortion; before the rape, I used to think of myself as pro-choice. I had the abortion and I still lean pro-choice, but I feel guilty because of all these anti-choice and "pro-life" messages I always hear about how I killed someone. It doesn't feel good at all. It makes me feel really guilty and always has me second-guessing myself about the choice I made. It's really messed up when people say the kinds of things your friend said, just repeating messages she's heard, without critically thinking about how it could affect someone.
Oh my god I’m so sorry to hear that you had to go through that! I don’t know how people can be so heartless. I can completely understand why you wouldn’t want the child as the father would have been your rapist. I am a firm believer that men who are capable of raping have something genetically wrong with them and I would be worried those genes would be in the child. Not just that but you would always know who the father was. That’s how i would feel anyway. So sorry ❤️
People who poke their noses into other people's private business rarely stop to think critically before they start yapping. Doesn't sound as if she had any profound convictions; just parroting what she'd heard elsewhere.
You made the right choice.
I confided in my then-best friend when I became pregnant in 2008 and decided on an abortion as children have never been in the cards for me.  I knew as a very young girl that motherhood was not in my future. This person that I'd shared everything with for over 15 years tried to convince me that the small cluster of cells that I had inside me at 6 weeks actually looked like a baby and could feel pain.  I spent over three hours showing her diagrams and factual data explaining that was not the case and it was all for nothing. When some people get something in their head they just can't accept reality. Our friendship is over and I'm better for it,  but at the time it was very hard. To this day she still tells people I'm a murderer but I have no regrets. Her loss.
Good on you for explaining to her!  I think there's definitely a difference between people who use that sort of language specifically because they're trying to manipulate and be persuasive, and some people who legitimately think in those terms and thus just blurt out what's in their heads.  It's especially important for the latter to have their attention drawn to what their words convey to others. I think the most awkward conversation I ever had was when I went to a local pro-life coaching seminar as a secretly pro-choice individual (I didn't sneak in- it was open to the public and I promised myself not to lie if asked directly about my beliefs, although that never came up).  I was curious and wanted to see what they had to say.  At one point, we had to role-play what we would say if counseling a woman (or was it arguing with a pro-choicer?) about a pregnancy that had been affected by thalidomide.  I gave my little spiel from the pro-choice perspective to a very nice older lady who was my partner, and she was like "Wow, you're really good at this!" and I'm sure I had to suppress a laugh because . . . yeah.  The pro-choice beliefs were my honest feelings, not some play-acting.  So it wasn't really awkward for her, but it definitely felt awkward at the time for me.
Haha that’s amazing! A little way to get your say in there. Is great that you went to the seminar though to see their views on things. I personally wouldn’t  have been able to keep my mouth shut haha! And yeah exactly that’s the only reason I alerted her to the strength of her words to the wrong person.
You handled that well.
Thank you :) I took a pregnancy test and it was negative so I’m now very relieved that I don’t have to make a hard decision in the first place 🙌 lol me and my partner will have our time. :)



Thank you for this. I know black teens who got an abortion and they were able to go to college and pursue their dreams. One her mother was recently murdered and she is planning on going to college, having a baby would have been a drain on her and her already mourning family.

You’d think these people would learn that they’re not helping any situation by constantly stymieing abortion

Wow! This should be more widely publicized.
I love that it is getting easier, what with pills and easier and quicker methods.
The article mentions that the SofTouch stems from manual vacuum aspiration, but then fails to follow-up and explain the differences between the two other than that the former is supposed to be less invasive.  But how so, exactly?  Both need to go through the cervix to evacuate the uterus . . . can anybody who knows more shed light on how this is different?
More info here
Thanks for that, but it didn't illuminate much.  I understand that it's different than the electric suction, but what I want to know is how is SofTouch different than just plain ol' manual vacuum aspiration?  What's different about the device itself and how it works or the effects it has? (Also, some of these differences cited on that website seem less to do with the method of procedure despite being promoted that way, as if the presence of companions or recovery with others are necessitated by the method, which just isn't true in as far as I know?).
Yeah, I'm with you.  This seems like 90% marketing to me.  It also tries to say that it's non-surgical and non-invasive... what does that mean? No images of how it's performed, no images of the device... it seems like this does more harm than good by increasing insecurity about manual vacuum aspiration. Like, great.  That's a great thing for my patient to hear and then come in and say, "well, what you're proposing is unnecessary."
That was my feeling, too . . . always get a little itchy when someone's really big on touting something as "natural" with the implication that anything else is Big Bad Pharma (cue scary music).


Do you think there is any truth in this statement? I think the the prolifers who genuinely equate an embryo with a newborn would still be opposed. The prolifers who want abortion illegal to control women having sex , rather than caring about the embryo would change their view.
Given how many prolifers suddenly become pro-their-choice when faced with an unwanted pregnancy, I bet dudes would find an excuse. It’s not like the entire movement wasn’t drummed up for political reasons anyway.
They are delusional.
This one always baffles we , they tend to use the ‘ It has human DNA’ argument as if having DNA but no brain makes it of consequence.
Almost every pro-life argument I've heard eventually comes around to religious beliefs. What justifies saving the "life" of a potentially human embryo/fetus seems to be based on the concept of the sacred more than the truly rational. "But it's a human being" is their trump card (no political reference intended), as if the fact that there are 7.5 billion of us polluting the Earth has no connection to climate change. Rationally, a pregnant white rhino or panda is more valuable for the environment than a pregnant human. But someone will inevitably drag morality and faith into the argument, because walking on our hind legs makes us oh, so special.
I see this a lot in arguments having to do with disagreeing with Plan B and abortion as soon as the sperm meets the egg. Almost all of the arguments are religious arguments that have to do with souls.  A fertilized egg or newly implanted embryo is literally nothing but a microscopic cluster of cells, yet some anti-choicers seem to view it as a fully formed, feeling baby.
Exactly what you said! Human beings do not need the bodies of others to survive. Yet everything from a  a microscopic cluster of cells on up to a seven-month fetus requires a female body to survive.
The phrase is mostly a funny quip meant to point out how abortion is a direct way of controlling women (and its historical roots are literally in forcing women out of medical practice by doctors who didn’t want to compete with midwives.) It’s a reflection on the delegation of power to men who act in their best interest and against the predominantly affected population.
Of course it would. If a large powerful group wants to do something, they'll find a way to justify it. If a group without power wants something that those with power aren't interested in doing, then "society can't possibly legalise that, it's wrong"
Here's another "what if": What if a fetus at any stage could be transplanted from the female body into an artificial "womb" that depended 100% on another adult human body to survive. That body could be female OR MALE. None of the volunteers would be required to adopt and raise the child after it was born, just carry it to term. Now, how many pro-lifers do you think would volunteer to carry around that fetus for nine months? And how many of them would be men? And a third question: How many of those pro-lifers would willingly carry a fetus of another race? Or a damaged fetus that had Down's Syndrome, for example?
I would... So that's 1/1 or 100%. In all fairness though that is a really good point. And I do think that a lot more pressure should be put on pro-life people to help the victims of rape that kept they're babies.
I really wouldn't consider this an "argument" worthy of any consideration in a serious, informed discussion between reasonable people who actually want to dialogue with each other. This is a rhetorical quip, devoid of any substance. Is there any truth to it? Like you said, I don't think so. Every pro-life advocate I hear articulate reasons for their position do so based off the humanity of the unborn, and rights to life. There are as many, if not more, women advocating for pro-life positions, so it seems that if someone wants to argue this they'd have to do a lot of work to substantiate it. I'm also not aware of anyone who want to illegalize abortion to "control women having sex." Maybe they're out there, and if that's their motivation I would condemn it, but I've never seen someone with that motivation. I think the final point is that this is just a red herring that totally avoids the actual issue of whether or not abortion ought to be legal. Let's say I grant that it's true. Men are just gigantic hypocrites, and if pregnancy affected them more directly, they'd all be pro-choice. Ok, but all that would mean is men are hypocrites; it doesn't actually address the arguments. Someone can be a terrible person and still have correct views on things. If the arguments and rationale for the pro-life position are invalid and untrue, why not address that, rather than postulating unknowable irrelevancies?
If you have not encountered the 'stop sluts having abortions' or ' all women should have babies' mentalities pop over to r/twoxchromosomes when they have a popular abortion thread. Edit for incorrect link
Did you mean to link to another sub? That one had 2 posts that are years old. In any case, that's why I wanted to stress that I was talking about "articulated" reasons for being pro-life. As in, here's my stance, and here's the argumentation in support of it. I'd be a fool to pretend that there aren't ignorant pro-life people out there, as well as jerks, not to mention edgelords and trolls. There's also a more fundamental problem that extends to both sides of this issue and to all of human experience: people in general are not good at critically examining their own beliefs, and are even worse at being able to express them to someone who doesn't share those beliefs and listen to contrary opinions without anger. Ultimately, I wouldn't worry about the schmucks. If trying to engage in discussion on a topic, don't seek out the opposition's worst arguments, confront the best ones.
Doh!/r/TwoXChromosomes You are right we need to triage the valued arguments
Yes because this might sound crazy but I so believe some men are upset that women have the ability to bring life into this world. They seek to control it.
Ofc not. This is correct. If I wanted women to have less sex (why would I want that anyway?) I wouldn't do it by making abortion illegal.


This is the best tl;dr I could make, original reduced by 88%. (I'm a bot) Extended Summary | FAQ | Feedback | Top keywords: Irish#1 abortion#2 Ireland#3 Anglin#4 eighth#5
Hey guys,I think we really need to be careful to not confuse "life" and "personhood." There is no doubt that at conception, a zygote is a life, and it is a human life. This is not arguable. At all.The real issue of the abortion debate is personhood. Life and species are biological facts, personhood is a philosophical idea or principal. When we deny life at conception, pro lifers think we are denying science, which we kinda are, and so they discredit our arguments. What cannot be determined is if personhood starts at conception, which is the real significant thing.So if a pro lifer says "human life starts at conceptions." You can say "yes there is life at conception, but you cannot take a dead sperm and a dead egg and make a live zygote. Life is everywhere, we destroy life every time we wash our hands. While I affirm there is life at conception, I do not believe that the life is a person."And then you can go from there. I just think it would be wise if we were a bit more careful about this.
It's not a person though, which means it can't be murdered, which is why abortion is legal, or at least that was one dermination made in Roe V. Wade. Of the 48 instances of the word 'person' found in the Consitution, only one could have applied to fetuses (right to life), which meant the Constitution does not address zygotes, embyros or fetuses, determined by the context of how the word 'person' is used in the Constitution. Personhood therefore will inevitably enter into abortion discussions. It's a semantic word game, because they mean 'person,' not 'life,' which is why they say 'abortion is murder.' They hope to equate zygotes, embryos and fetuses with us, who ARE persons. They are wrong both legally and factually.
Yeah I think this was what I was trying to say? Did that not come across in my post? I must have worded it really badly. I just think it is useful to make sure to define the two in conversations.
I get the point though. I've often stated in these forums, even if the fetus was a person, it still wouldn't have access to the bodily resources of another without consent, because none of us do.
Personhood is irrelevant. I don't believe a person ever has the right to occupy someone's body without explicit and ongoing consent.
Yeah that is one way to go about arguing for being pro choice, and I personally agree with it. But, some people are more interested with the personhood side of things. I just wanted to point out how what some of us may say can be taken in a different direction. I was just trying to point out something that can hinder productive conversations about this issue

Consent to specific: consent to sex is not consent to pregnancy, just as consent to kissing is not consent to sex. Consent can be withdrawn at any time: you have every right to stop having sex with someone after initially consenting to it. You have every right to stop being pregnant even if you initially consented to it.
No, we are not. Quote from Dr. Arthur Kaplan fellow of several professional organizations, including the Hastings Center, the American College of Legal Medicine, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science: "A starting point that is far more consistent with the facts of biology is not conception but the emergence of the human brain." http://blogs.harvard.edu/billofhealth/2014/07/15/art-caplan-new-op-ed-when-does-human-life-begin/ When you say that “Life begins at fertilization/conception” you are saying that a human being exists at the moment when haploid human gametes fuse into a fertilized diploid human egg. Saying life begins at conception basically means that a single cell is, in fact, a human being. There is a reason not a single scientific organization supports this idea. Sometime in the not very distant future, probably in our quest to understand cancer, we will discover the mechanisms for unlocking the genetic code which prevents unchecked cell division. Since every single human cell contains the full genetic information of every other cell, it will become possible to take a skin cell and cause it to divide and differentiate into any desired organ, or even into a complete human being, genetically identical to the donor. The process is called 'cloning'. Will we then say that every skin cell is a human being? Rather should we not say that both zygotes and skin cells represent potential human beings with differing probabilities of actually becoming a full human? Valuing the point of conception is an unreasonable scientific position, it should be realized that one is putting a premium on is a potential and probability for humanness, and that it is not necessarily true that a fertilized egg is, in fact, a full human being at conception.
Here are two good sources for you: The American Society for Reproductive Medicine represents fertility specialists in the United States and more than 100 other countries. The group's spokesman, Sean Tipton, his organization opposed a Mississippi initiative to define Life beginning at conception. The group took a similar stand in another situation. The president of the Washington D.C.-based American Society for Reproductive Medicine took a strong public stand, writing in its February bulletin that the idea life begins at conception is in the same league as "fake news" and "disinformation." http://www.desmoinesregister.com/story/opinion/columnists/rekha-basu/2017/03/30/basu-myths-like-life-begins-conception-dont-belong-law/99826940/ "The unscientific nature of the concept that “human life begins at fertilization,” and why it matters" by Dr. Richard J Paulson, MD Professor of Obstetrics & Gynecology Alia Tutor Chair in Reproductive Endocrinology Division Chief, Reproductive Endocrinology, and Infertility Director, Fellowship Program https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0015028217300365
I do t think personhood is the argument at all. Abortion is about the ability of a woman to control her reproductive destiny. Without abortion as a safety net when women are unable to prevent a pregnancy, women are forced to ha e children against their will.
We've all heard it a million times. "Every biology/embryology textbook says life begins at conception"Is this true?Well, the scientific consensus disagrees.Excerpt from Dr. Ricki Lewis, a science writer with a Ph.D. in genetics and biology and author of several textbooks and thousands of articles in scientific, medical, and embryological publications. “Life science textbooks from traditional publishers don’t explicitly state when life begins because that is a question not only of biology, but of philosophy, politics, psychology, religion, technology, and emotions. Rather, textbooks list the characteristics of life, leaving interpretation to the reader.” http://blogs.plos.org/dnascience/2013/10/03/when-does-a-human-life-begins-17-timepoints/Dr. Scott F. Gilbert, a legendary Embryologist from Swarthmore says: As an embryologist and the author of embryological textbooks, I can say with absolute assurance: There is no consensus among embryologists as to when an individual human life begins. https://www.huffingtonpost.com/scott-f-gilbert/countering-republican-claims-embryos_b_8152028.htmlHere is an excerpt from a lecture by Dr. Robert Wyman, chair of the Yale Biology department "There is a lot of false misunderstanding out there, We always hear” It is a scientific fact, as any basic biology text will confirm that life does begin at conception. The fetus is a live human being, distinct from, while dependent on, its mother. It deserves the full protection of its rights." That's what's common out there. Not only is it what people, most people personally believe, but it's generally considered to be a scientific fact. I've heard this from pro-life people and pro-choice people, almost indistinguishable. The question is--you've all had high school biology at least, how many of you had college biology? A few of you, guess what? That isn't what--that isn't at all what a beginning biology textbook says. What does it say? This is from--they send professors free copies of textbooks, so I just opened up one that they happened to send me, and it shows something quite different. It shows life as a cycle. There's no start point here. Fertilization is one of the events going around the cycle." http://oyc.yale.edu/sites/default/files/mcdblecture23notes_0.pdfAnd finally, P.Z Myers in my opinion completely refutes the textbook argument by showing why specifically the books pro-lifers use are not valid. http://scienceblogs.com/pharyngula/2015/10/01/bill-nye-and-abortion/So overall as you can see: Textbooks simply do not say what pro-lifers want them to. I am going to trust the word of actual textbooks authors and scientists and those who write these books instead of pro-lifers are statistically shown to have lower levels of education compared to pro-choicers
It's a game of semantics. The word 'life' is used as a substitute for the word 'person' in the phrase 'life begins at conception.' If they were honest and used the word 'person,' which is what they mean, the phrase falls flat on it's face, since it's obvious a zygote isn't a person, because zygotes lack the personality that persons possess. The phrase 'abortion is murder,' clearly references a killing of a person, which the phrase 'life begins at conception' does not, thus revealing the intended implication. Recognizing the rights of persons for zygotes, embryos and fetuses would be absurd, because neither zygotes, embryos nor fetuses have any ability whatsoever to exercise the rights of persons. We may as well ascribe the rights of persons to rocks.
How is a newborn more able to excercise right of personhood than a baby that's just about to be born? I mean they still can't do anything for themselves and need other people to feed and change them.
Babies exhibit speech/communication when they cry. It's how the parents know it's time to feed or change a diaper. I answered your question now you answer mine. Describe the personality of the zygote at conception. Persons have personalities, even babies. If you can't, then don't spread the lie 'abortion is murder' because you can't prove a person exists at conception.
They still can't do anything alone and will die if left to survive by themselves in the wild. "Boring" is a good personality trait description of a zygote I guess but I'm not sure distinct "personality traits" define personhood. Once they start kicking is when they develop a "real" personality, some are bigger pains than others here. But does that qualify them as "persons" though just because they can think for themselves?
Proof? In particular, how is it possible for a zygote to possess a personality when there is no developed brain?
So if it has a brain it is a "person"?
Prove a personality can exist without a developed brain and you will prove a zygote has a personality. If you have no proof, just admit you are making it up, or at a minimum, that you are guessing, which you've already admitted. You can't prove a zygote has a personality with a guess. If you do, you admit the phrase 'abortion is murder,' is based on a guess, not fact.
But what about a baby with a developed brain and a personality that's still in the womb? Would you consider them a "person"? What about a person in a coma with barely any (but some) brain activity?
So far you've stated the personality of a zygote at conception is 'boring' you 'guess.' That means the phrase 'abortion is murder' is a guess. What proof do you have a zygote has a personality without a developed brain?  If you have no proof, then it's clear a person does not exist at conception, which means abortion isn't murder.
So you aren't going to answer my questions?

I don't think any scientist can tell you "when life begins" in a sense that is useful to the abortion debate. After all, a human sperm is not an inanimate rock. It is a valid subject for study by a biologist, not a geologist! And, it is also human. If one lays down a rule that anything that can be classified as "living" plus can be classified as "human" should be allowed to live, ... all contraception would be wrong. One can rationalize a bit and say you want to extend that line to conception: since that's confirmation that the particular living cells can make it into a full human being. The real decision here would not be scientific: one would be making a moral judgement, and only then asking a scientist to tell you when conception really happens... and even there, you would have to define your ethical terms in a way that a scientist could understand. Or you could make your "line": viability outside the womb. Again, the key judgement is not a scientific one. The key judgement is the moral one. In essence, the sperm and the egg are life. Conception is a continuation of a process that started way before. However, none of this is really relevant to abortion unless you make it so, arbitrarily.
I disagree. Quote from Dr. Arthur Kaplan fellow of several professional organizations, including the Hastings Center, the American College of Legal Medicine, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science: "A starting point that is far more consistent with the facts of biology is not conception but the emergence of the human brain." http://blogs.harvard.edu/billofhealth/2014/07/15/art-caplan-new-op-ed-when-does-human-life-begin/ There is one. Here is another argument by an OB/GYN http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0015028217300365
He's entitled to his opinion, but there's nothing scientific about it. Mind you, I am 100% pro-abortion, but it would be a rationalization for me to claim it was because life begins at a certain point.
This is not an "opinion" this is a fact. There is plenty of evidence that shows brain activity is the key point to defining when a human being is formed: http://www.nytimes.com/1975/05/09/archives/fetal-brain-said-to-live-at-28-weeks-role-of-the-brain-studies.html http://articles.latimes.com/1990-03-19/local/me-476_1_brain-stem

Isn't it funny how those who pretend to possess the moral high ground must resort to lies to convince others of their (allegedly) morally superior position?
This is sad. Angering even to me as a man that it's assumed "If you have an abortion, your boyfriend WILL break up with you."
I mean if he does then good riddance, no one needs a boyfriend who doesn't leave decisions about your body up to you
But even if he did it would be for the best. Who needs a partner who is unable to understand your choices and reasoning?
I am investigating the connection between spirituality and activism. I am interested in how peoples' activism is driven by spiritual or religious beliefs. Of course, I suspect that for many or most political/social justice/climate justice/human rights/animal rights etc. activists, religion and/or spirituality will play no role at all and some may even hate the idea of it.But I am interested in whether or not there are those who do feel like their spiritual beliefs guide them to fight for something that has affects more than just their own life. If so, I'd love to hear your personal story or experience with this connection. Does your connection with a higher power (however you define it) guide your activism or play some role in it? If so, please share! Any insights would be greatly appreciated. Thanks!
Read Willie Parker MD’s book: A Moral Argument for Choice
Would you accept PM's? If so, I'll tell you, once the holiday is over.
Absolutely!

Honestly, Abortion Doctors are some of the most courageous people on earth. They have to literally risk their lives to provide a legal and necessary service.
Hats off to her.
Exactly, have you watched the short film in the link ?

I am glad that they are being taught how to do secret abortions in case abortion does become illegal or further restricted.  I'm sure it will already be useful in places with severe TRAP laws and like one person said in the article, it will be useful now for underage patients with no other options.  It is just a shame that they have to go back to learning how to use kits that are used to perform secret abortions in rural Africa, anti-choicers honestly want to force women to live like they are in a third world country. I also hope it becomes easier for people to obtain the abortion pill here.  Currently Texas women go to Mexico to get it if they live too far away from a clinic.  And Women on Web sends people the abortion pill and Women on Waves goes around in a ship providing abortion services, though I do not believe they currently service the U.S. since even though abortion can be hard to come by in places it is technically legal.   Also some women buy the pills online, but usually you just never know what you are getting.  We need a safe, discreet solution to procuring the abortion pill. Also if I am not mistaken in the past a group of women trained themselves on how to evacuate each other's uteruses so that they could perform abortions on each other and others that needed their help.  I believe that they came up with their own system and from their experience it seemed to be safe.  Though a lot of times the women did not have a confirmed pregnancy, so take that with a grain of salt.  A lot of times they used it to  suction out their uteruses so that they would not get their period, I'm not sure how safe that is for extended use. Women on Web seems to be having some success in religious, anti-choice countries like Poland and Ireland.  Though there have been cases of the pills being confiscated.  I believe a lot of Irish women who order the pills have them shipped to Northern Ireland and then go pick them up.  Also a lot of Irish women travel to England to have a legal abortion performed and Polish women travel to neighboring, less religious countries to get the procedure done.  The U.S. already has Texan women traveling to Mexico for the pills, I wonder if maybe Canada would end up being a hotspot for abortion care for American women if abortion was ever made illegal here? Though some desperate women will still resort to performing coat hanger abortions or using other dangerous methods like they did before Roe.  That is why legal abortion is so important.  Illegality doesn't stop abortion, it just makes it where well off or well connected women get an illegal, but relatively safe abortion or travel outside of the country to obtain the procedure legally, while less well off and less connected women perform their own risky abortions and either do it right and succeed or do it wrong and risk getting sick or dying. That was the pre-Roe U.S. But hopefully these trained possible illegal providers and the other methods that I mentioned for obtaining a secret abortion help save the lives of American women if the anti-choicers ever succeed in forcing women to live like they are in a third world country again.
The women who learnt how to do abortion was the Jane collective https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jane_Collective. There is a movie is the pipeline about them.
I remember them, but I believe I was thinking of the feminist group the Self-Helpers.  They performed "menstrual extraction" before Roe.  https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Menstrual_extraction.
Interesting , thanks for the link.
Jane Collective The Jane Collective or Jane, officially known as the Abortion Counseling Service of Women’s Liberation, was an underground service in Chicago, Illinois affiliated with the Chicago Women's Liberation Union that operated from 1969 to 1973, a time when abortion was illegal in the United States. The collective was started by activists in the women's liberation movement in an effort to address the increasing number of unsafe abortions being performed by untrained providers. Since illegal abortions were not only dangerous but very expensive, the founding members of the collective believed that they could provide women with safer and more affordable access to abortions. In an informational brochure distributed by Jane in 1969 they characterized abortion as a social problem that mirrored the oppression of women in social and political arenas. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source | ^Donate ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
This is pretty standard.  When we have a model for how to practice something not on a patient, we do it.  I learned how to do vasectomies on a model made of string and bicycle tires; that doesn't mean that I'm going to do back-alley vasectomies. This article injects more drama into it than there is, I think.
The problem is that when you practice vasectomies on a model made of string and bicycle tires, you are likely doing it as part of your regular medical training- the same way that fledgling phlebotomists practice sticking needles in oranges.  It's good to get a feel for something before you graduate to human patients. The difference here is that this is a travelling training, brought not by a medical university or teaching hospital, but rather, a not-for-profit group who is trying to bridge an institutional gap that is in large part responsible for the abortion provider shortage we are facing.  Furthermore, the tools being used here for training are specifically chosen precisely because they could lend themselves to clandestine and/or illegal procedures; while there's nothing wrong with manual suction aspiration (as opposed to vacuum suction aspiration), standard training in a medical facility would likely use the latter. I don't think the article is being hyperbolic at all.  Whether re-criminalization of abortion looms on the horizon- who can say for sure.  But the folks here aren't just doing regular ol' training like you mention for vasectomies.  They're doing it with a goal in mind: get people who are lacking training (often due to political machinations) ready in the event of the worst-case scenario.
Nope, I arranged it as part of an interest group, same as for the papaya training. There are similar training set-ups for a bunch of other medical procedures. If standard training did that (which it doesn't), that would be a failure on the part of standard training.  It's good to know both manual and electric aspiration techniques.  They're not chosen because they could lend themselves to clandestine or illegal procedures.  They're chosen because they're portable and flexible and useful for early procedures. That may now be on people's minds, but the training is the exact same as it was when things didn't seem dire.  Do you see what I mean? I'm curious, do you have a background in this?
I apologize- I was speaking from knowledge of what I've read and learned over the years (no professional background in the field) and, quite honestly, some assumptions.  I had no idea abortion training used manual aspiration (although I didn't mean to insinuate that they'd only be used illegally- rather, that like the article suggests, that the group saw in them that value). I'm very curious- how many interest groups are there in the medical fields that do not-for-profit training- is it an industry-wide thing?
I think the article played up that value inappropriately.  I agree it's a value, but it's also a value for international ob/gyn, or rural ob/gyn, or people who won't go into ob/gyn but want to offer gyn services in their pediatrics or family medicine clinics. There are plenty of interest groups in med schools, typically organized by medical students.  Some of them have larger organizations with things like a budget and employees who aren't M.D.s.  I don't really know how many of them they are comparable to MSFC, but I know that my non-ob/gyn friends did their own things, like met and practiced setting bones.  Or doing lumbar punctures.  Or other things that I found less interesting than ob/gyn.
We should not murder a human who can live independently. But a foetus cant live independently if it stops drawing blood from the mother, or stops stretching the belly of mother, until its 8th month of gestation.Other people in the society cant save the foetus/baby outside the womb. So abortion is not a murder. I think this is a valid argument for pro-choice.
I don't like it.  I think that people who can't live independently are still, y'know, murdered if you kill them.  I'm not calling it an invalid argument, just one that I don't buy myself.
Independently I meant just surviving. Not financially etc, just biologically survive independently. Society can financially support somebody to live, but biologically they can’t help if fetus stops drawing mothers blood
I think a better way of thinking would be- does support of one hamper the rights of another?  We can biologically support a lot of people who can't survive independently, with a number of technologies that do not infringe whatsoever on the bodies of other people.  At least with the technology currently available, pregnancy until viability cannot be supported without the help of the mother's body, and that's why there's a difference.
Yes. This.
There’s a difference yes, but does the fact that the woman voluntarily (in almost all cases) created this person not need to be considered? The woman technically put this person in its current state of vulnerability, so she should be responsible, not that the father shouldn’t also be. For example, (although i hate using arguments of analogy, perhaps it can be helpful) if i injure someone through negligent behavior, i will most likely be required by the courts to make up for the victim’s injuries, usually monetarily, but not always. Should the parents not be held to the same standard?
Somebody who needs blood transfusions?  Who has a conjoined twin? This is why I dislike the argument.  It opens you up to stuff like this.
Blood transfusions require consent. I don't understand the conjoined twin thing so I can't answer to it
Did the unborn child consent to being put in his situation?
No, neither of us consented. I guess I wasn't mentally strong enough to endure forced birth of something raped into me.
Do you believe that abortion should only be allowed in cases of rape?
I don't believe anyone should be forced to give birth against their will or without their consent, no one should be made to feel like an animal made to breed
Oh, ok. So all abortion should be legal - from conception to 9 months?
Of course.

So a woman who voluntarily engages in sex, an activity where there is always the chance of getting pregnant, shouldn’t have to live with the consequences of her decision? Why are women so privileged in this way? The analogy you proposed is very flawed because women have the ability to control whether or not they have sex
Honestly all arguments, that I have heard, of pro choice are valid.
A fetus is by its very nature a parasite. I would be willing to consider non-religious pro-choice arguments made by women IF the male progenitor of the fetus was forced to live with impotence for the entire time the woman was required to host the fetus.
So what happened in your life that caused you to be this edgy?
Foolish question that demeans the very real issues all women must confront if they become pregnant in America.
[removed]
Is a fetus a human being, or is it a potential human being? And what "right" does any human have to demand part of another human be sacrificed for its survival? If it is "human", then any human who is living independently of the womb can demand another human give a part of his or her own body, be it blood, flesh or an organ. If a child will die without a liver transplant, can that child (or its attorneys) DEMAND that the mother or father donate part or all of their liver so the child can live? What if the "child" is 30 years old and destroyed his or her liver with alcohol?
It has independent DNA, brain waves, and even different blood type. It’s not an argument as to if, but rather when. You can’t prove that life doesn’t start at conception so we probably  should err on the side of caution when it comes to abortion.   Your second argument is bogus. Of course parents have responsibility for their spawn until they reach the age of adulthood. Any loving parent would give up both lungs for their child, however the government does not require it.  Parent are responsible for their children until they reach adulthood, no one else has any other obligations for that child.
Yet the government (example: states such as Texas) demands that a woman submit her body to nurturing an unwanted fetus. If the fetus is determined to be terminally defective at 7 or 8 months gestation, the woman is not permitted to abort it, but must carry it to term regardless of the level of suffering and surety of early infant death. So you are incorrect: Yes, some state governments do require THE WOMAN to submit her body to nurture an unwanted or damaged fetus. The paternal parent is free to dance off and reproduce with someone else.
Perhaps her body, you have a point. Her life, not so much. For the record, I am pro-life until you get to rape, incest, or great risk for a women’s health.  In no way do I think we should practice eugenics by aborting the disabled in The United States. I think we should definitely help those who raise children with disabilities, but that would go against the “conservatives only care about the child until it is born” bullshit stereotype.  A hardworking blue collar father will give just as much of his body to the child as the mother did so I don’t think that is an excuse.
I'm pro-choice in all circumstances, but I agree with your take on those who are more concerned about cost than quality of life. I get furious when politicians refuse to fund programs for children who are already born but natter on about protecting the unborn. Aborting the disabled is an entirely different situation. It's not eugenics if the pregnant female has decided to abort, and her decision has been made free from cultural and social pressure. "Degree of disability" is also a major issue: Who will be caring for the child once he/she is born and who will assume the expense of rehabilitation and support? It's a difficult and emotional issue -- I don't envy the Supreme Court, because I'm sure this will end up on their desks once again. Meanwhile, we need to talk it over, look at every side and argue each point. Like we're doing right now!
You’re right about lot, and you seem level headed which is a rarity on Reddit. Ideally the government, in my opinion, would cover the majority of the expense, of not all, for caring for a disabled child. Perhaps from the definition of eugenics it would not qualify as such, but to me it seems like society would be getting pretty close. As for politics, I wish people would form their own opinions instead of following their party. As you can tell, I’m a republican but I support free or subsidized higher education, but I don’t think everyone needs to go to college. I call myself pro life but I do believe in exceptions. At the end of day I realize I was raised in less than ideal circumstances, but I thoroughly enjoy life and believe everyone else deserves to do the same.  Anyway, you have a nice night. While I disagree I can certainly appreciate hearing someone else’s perspective.
A threat to abortion is a threat to casual sex.
Are you using your own, personal definition of "parasite," or one that is scientifically accurate?
My personal definition of "parasite": A living being whose survival demands taking physical nutrition from another living being with or without the host's consent. Wikipedia definition: In biology, parasitism is a non-mutual relationship between species, where one species, the parasite, benefits at the expense of the other, the host. During pregnancy, even though the woman may choose to host the parasite and both are of the same species, it still meets the definition and the entire nine months is at the physical expense of the host. To force a woman (and it's always a woman) to host the parasite is exactly what is wrong with laws prohibiting abortion.
Reproduction is not parasitism, by definition. Also, to be a parasite, the organism must be of a different species than its host. You're inclusion of reproduction as parasitism is a drastic departure from any scientific definition. It seems the change was made just to rationalize abortion.
I'm genuinely interested: Please provide your sources that say a parasite must be of a different species than its host.
Britannica - Parasitism, relationship between two species of plants or animals in which one benefits at the expense of the other, sometimes without killing the host organism.
My reply stands. A fetus is parasitical, whether wanted or unwanted. A parasite benefits at the expense of the host.
That's a mutualistic bond...
a mutualistic bond In what way? What benefit is the female host getting out of it? How is it "mutual" if she doesn't want to be pregnant?
Well firstly,  a parasite's harm to the other species can be measured in terms of "fitness", which, biologically, refers to ability to survive and reproduce in order to further the health of the species.  As for benefits.... https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2633676/ And calling it mutualistic is a stretch anyway since these categories are usually reserved for interspecies relationships.

And your reply means nothing. Normal reproductive processes are not considered parasitism, scientifically. If you're going to base your arguments on your own, personal, made-up definitions, don't expect others to buy into them.
Okay, if a fetus (wanted or unwanted) isn't a "parasite", then what is it? It's using the body tissue of a human to grow and develop -- but as it can't survive without using that body, why would it be called "human"? No one who is breathing absolutely requires the flesh and blood of another to survive, so what do we call a fetus? And if it is a "potential" human, what legal rights does it have and what legal rights should it have?
You're begging the question. You're assuming your conclusion, within your premise. A human fetus is a human being. Not a "potential" human being - a human being in its earliest stages of development. How is a human fetus not a human being?

As a male who is pro-life, I’ll point out that impotence for 9 months is a VERY small price to pay and would not in the least be comparable to pregnancy, though impotence might also be punishment for the woman in a monogamous relationship, given that pregnant women can get pretty horny... Also, by your logic, as best as i can tell, a one-year-old would also be a parasite, just one that can migrate hosts
No one is forced by their body to provided nurturing and sustenance for any infant past the time of their birth. Only the pregnant woman is biologically forced to host the fetus. And as for 9 months of impotence being a "VERY small price to pay",  perhaps you should ask the studs who sire kids and can't be bothered to provide a dime of child support, much less give up their precious erections. (I can't speak for them, of course) No female should be forced to carry a fetus she does not want. Arguing otherwise all too often brings morality (and its unwelcome cousin religion) into the issue.
I am not saying men don’t value their erections, I’m just saying that level of punishment or prohibition does not compare well to pregnancy and childbirth. I can argue the pro-life position without bringing morality or religion into it, though lets not pretend that those things don’t matter. Even those that argue for small government believe that governments are required to protect the lives of all human beings, as is reflected in the declaration of independence. So is the fetus a human being? Of course, it has its own distinct human dna, and will develop as a human being through he age of about 25 when it will be fully developed. Is it alive? I don’t see how you could argue otherwise. If you want to use the 7 characteristics of life (composed of cells, molecular and cellular organization, use energy, respond to environment, grow, adapt to environment, and reproduce), though they are more frequently used to define a species as being alive, the only problem is reproduction, but a fetus can reproduce just as easily as a 1-year-old. Would you rather use tangible characteristics or complexity to define if it is alive? By the end of week 4 the growing being that has its own dna already is developing hands, eyes, and legs. We could use comparison to determine whether or not the government should protect the fetus. One would obviously expect legal action against one who removed life support from a coma patient on whim. I’m not saying there arent differences between a coma patient and a fetus, but as far as humanity and life are concerned, they are the same. The biggest difference between them, however, is that the fetus is much more likely to live a long happy life if support is sustained than a coma patient. At the very least the government should be consistent with its legislation. Why is a man charged with manslaughter if he drunkenly kills a woman’s fetus in a car accident. If its just tissue it shouldn’t matter. Why can’t i prostitute myself if it’s “my body, my choice”? But let’s talk a bit about morality because we need some level of morality. For example, without morals no life has any intrinsic value. We could slaughter the homeless because they really don’t contribute to society. Murder is only as costly to society as the victim’s net worth. Genocide would potentially be worth considering. So at the basic level, morality is important, and IF we can say that a fetus is a human life, but we should be able to terminate it at the will of the mother, then we are terribly inconsistent and in danger of returning to slavery or adopting a new form of the degradation of humanity. Lastly, no one is forced to endure pregnancy because no one is forced to have sex. It is not difficult. You and I (I can only presume) are abstaining right now.
You wrote "Lastly, no one is forced to endure pregnancy because no one is forced to have sex. It is not difficult." Oh, my. I can't even think about this comment. I'm going to block you now -- that alone makes it pretty obvious you're a troll.
I disagree with you so that makes me a troll? You can’t refute my logic so you block me?
A genocide is the deliberate killing of a large group of people, especially those of a particular ethnic group or nation. Fetuses don't count in this category. In addition, nobody is forcing anyone to get an  abortion.
I don’t understand why you couldn’t call mass killings of fetuses genocide, but i never said it was. I just stated that if humanity has no intrinsic value, then genocide is acceptable. I also never said anyone is forced to get an abortion, so i don’t understand your point.
People on life support can't live without life support. So me pulling the plug on someone who is temporarily on life support isn't murder?
People on dialysis can't live long without a kidney transplant. Are you murdering people right now by not going to https://www.kidney.org/transplantation/livingdonors and signing up to donate?
Others in society and single person support are different. In the cases you mentioned if one person withdraws support then someone else will support. In case of embryo, if mother withdraws support due to fatigue others can’t keep that alive
[removed]
Others in society and single person support are different. In the cases you mentioned if one person withdraws support then someone else will support. In case of embryo, if mother withdraws support due to fatigue others can’t keep that alive
True. But they are not allowed to withdraw support, until support from another is safely procured. You can't just abandon your elderly grandpa in the woods, to die. That's illegal. You can legally stop taking care of him, but not until you've made sure he's safe and cared for by another. Right?
Pro-choice here (actually pro-infanticide), but you're assuming that fetuses don't have a right to draw blood from the mother, so a pro-lifer would disagree there.
But then how do we define the "right" to draw blood from/use the body of? No one has the "right" to demand my blood or any other body organs or functions. And there we have the word "no one". Is the fetus a separate person ("one") from conception, or is the fetus an integral part of the mother? And if it is, then why wouldn't the mother have the "right" to do as she wishes with any part of her own body? If I want my ears pierced I have the right to that procedure. If I want a mole removed (or a fetus), as that piece of living tissue is part of me, then I have the right to dispose of it. Ridiculous argument, but we're diving deep into bodily autonomy -- no one can legally (US law) force me to give them part of my body to keep them alive. Not even my identical twin and certainly not a being that is a separate human with a separate identity (if we're going with that argument). If that being is considered a living part of my body, then I can choose to nurture it or have it excised as I see fit, without being required to justify the decision. I know this is angels do-si-do-ing on the head of a pin; it's just an intellectual what-if for the time when a pro-life supporter wants to debate. Thoughts?
I would argue for the computational theory of mind and say that the brain of the fetus isn't developed enough to contain a person, so it's morally irrelevant what happens to the fetus.
If you knock me unconscious, does my brain "contain a person" ?
Yes, it contains you as static data. Your brain is a computer, and you are the computation running there. When you're unconscious, you exist as the data and when you wake up again, the data in your brain (along with your sensory input) will start being processed again (which is why you start perceiving your surroundings and thinking about things).
I'm having trouble understanding this "me as static data" thing. If I was knocked unconscious, and in a coma - am I still static data, then? What if there's a possibility that I won't regain consciousness? Am I still static data, then?
Yes, of course you are.
Yes, unless that data is removed from your brain. (Some things that put you in a coma can destroy the data by destroying the physical structure of the brain - for example a stroke.) That means there's a possibility the data won't be run again. Yes. It's like a computer. If you turn it off, the software stays on the disk. If you never turn it on again, the software just stays on the disk indefinitely.
This is kind of an arbitrary way to define when the life of a human being should or shouldn't be protected by the law. What amount of "data" makes me worthy of life? Did I have enough data to qualify as a legally protected human life on the day I was born? What about 1 day prior to that?
It's not arbitrary, because you really are a computation. There is no fixed amount of bytes that your brain has to contain before we can say there is a person there. Compare: How much stone does it take to have a statue? How much ink do I need to have a book? How much water do I need to have a wave? etc. The difference is in quality, not in quantity. (Obviously you need some minimal computational capacity, which is why, for example, brains of dogs, cats, patients in the last stage of Alzheimer's disease or human fetuses aren't complex enough to contain a person.) I tried to explain it a little under this post (in multiple threads). (Also, "data" is a real word, so you don't need to use quote marks. :) ) A human organism can be killed if it doesn't contain a person. Without a person in the brain, human organisms are just morally irrelevant things. Legally it's a different question. If you're asking in the moral sense, I would put the boundary at maybe 1.5 years, because according to Wikipedia, younger infants aren't self-aware.
And that's why it's arbitrary.

Computational theory of mind In philosophy, a computational theory of mind names a view that the human mind or the human brain (or both) is an information processing system and that thinking is a form of computing. The theory was proposed in its modern form by Hilary Putnam in 1961, and developed by the MIT philosopher and cognitive scientist Jerry Fodor (who was Putnam's PhD student) in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. Despite being vigorously disputed in analytic philosophy in the 1990s (due to work by Putnam himself, John Searle, and others), the view is common in modern cognitive psychology and is presumed by many theorists of evolutionary psychology; in the 2000s and 2010s the view has resurfaced in analytic philosophy (Scheutz 2003, Edelman 2008). The computational theory of mind holds that the mind is a computation that arises from the brain acting as a computing machine. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source | ^Donate ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
Not just draw blood, put weight on her, stretch her belly, and risk her health.
Infant can be sent to an orphanage and it can survive there. So infanticide would be a murder
It wouldn't be if infants aren't people.
[removed]
It's more complicated than defining them that way. A human organism is not the same thing as a person in the same way computer hardware isn't the same thing as an AI.
I'm a bot, bleep, bloop. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit: [/r/prolife] "A fetus/embryo cant live independently without drawing blood from mother, so abortion is not murder"  If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads. (Info / ^Contact)
Aren’t we all dependent on people at some point? There are no human being who are full independent by themselves . Even if you are born and outside of womb you are still dependent on parents. Also fetus have their own DNA and does not mix with their mother’s blood because of placenta. How about people with some kinds of needs that require people’s help. They could have mental or physical disorder. Some can’t live independently. I don’t think any civil society will say ok to murder them just because they are in need of special care. I think the problem comes when we only consider human as human if they are “independent “ or “useful” to the society. Human should be consider as human because it is intrinsic value not because their usefulness to the society. Prolife believe people’s life should be respected from womb to tomb.
Society will support humans in trouble. But it should be voluntary. If one person withdraws support somebody else can provide support for a person with physical disorder. But in case of embryos only mother can support. All other cases anybody else can support a child/person. I should phrase it better
In civil society shouldn’t we support one with the most vulnerable? Unborn babies doesn’t have voice to protect itself. Which is more loving things to do? Send vulnerable pregnant women to abortion industry or send them pregnancy resource center that gives them counseling and financial packages mother and father need for a year to raise the baby? You should check the stories of abortion survivors and see if can tell them they weren’t human being.
Even if I was waited on hand and foot for every day of a pregnancy and promised $100 million after the birth, I'd still kill myself rather than go through it. None of your"resources" make reproductive torture acceptable.
Some women don’t want to continue a pregnancy . It’s does matter how much ‘ councilling’ or financial resources . Women aren’t a hive mind that all want to undertake pregnancy and childbirth .
How about established adults who can't live independently without insulin injections?  Should we frag them on sight?
You're not required to extract your own insulin and give it to them, no.
Others in society and single person support are different. In the cases you mentioned if one person withdraws support then someone else will support. In case of embryo, if mother withdraws support due to fatigue others can’t keep that alive..
I guess they aren't humans, since they're "dependent" on things. Hey - I'm dependent on food, water, and oxygen. Guess I'm not human, either.
You're leaving out an important detail: the fetus was not willingly put into his current situation (of being dependent on his mother). It's true, he cannot survive outside the womb. But he was forced there - you are not justified in killing him. It would be like if someone knocked me unconscious, put me in a space shuttle, and launched it into orbit. Then, when we were up there, they look at me and say, "Hey! This is my space shuttle! You have no right to be here! I am ejecting you, and it's not my fault if you can't survive outside of the shuttle!"
Categorizing a fetus as not a human because it can’t survive independently from its mother is arbitrary. I think it’s a ridiculous argument to make in my opinion that just because it can’t live independently, it is therefore not a human. I will have to respectfully disagree with you.
Medical professionals can save a 21-week old fetus. Anyway, people who need blood transfusions shouldn't be murdered.
All the more reason to allow abortion at 21+ weeks. Use early induction as the method and let the kid take its chances.
Blood donors should be voluntary in case of transfusions. Not forcing donors/mother to do that
The child is doing exactly what it is supposed to be doing.

How is an abortion violent? To be violated and then be forced to carry a baby you didn't want? That is abusive and violent.

Technically only legal immigrants are entitled to medical coverage in the US unless it is a life-threatening emergency or labor in which case no hospital can refuse anyone, it's federal law. Source
Yeah, I'm pretty sure, as anonymousredheadedbi points out, that this is more about detention than having anything to do with the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act.  The only reason the government has any say whatsoever right now over these teens is because it is holding them in immigration detention centers; because they are being held in this manner, their well-being is also being managed by the government.  Like, nobody is entitled to food, either- but if the government is holding people in institutions, it is obligated to feed 'em or let 'em out for a supervised visit to McDonald's.  And particularly because pregnancy is a time-sensitive and lifelong-impacting issue, the government officials in charge of caring for these young women need to let them seek medical care. The constitutional right to medical care that they cite is not some sort of all-encompassing right (as you point out, the only time provision of care is non-negotiable is in emergent situations), but rather the fact that the government cannot prevent you from seeking to access said care (i.e. keeping you locked up in a detention center and in effect condemning you to continuing a pregnancy).
Comparing abortion to needing to eat seems pretty dishonest imo. I mean if one of these girls had an ectopic pregnancy or something I could see the point but this response seems to break down any possible communication between a prochoicer and a prolifer. I think anyway.
You're right- there's nothing really comparable to abortion- I fell prey to the trap I always warn against with others in an attempt to try to explain the situation.  I don't think it's dishonest, but it isn't a good comparison simply because pregnancy is such a singular and unique experience. So yeah, my apologies.  But aside from that, does the explanation make sense?
It would only make sense to me if abortion was a necessary medical treatment (as I mentioned the case with ectopic pregnancy). I don't think it makes sense when discussing elective or non-theraputic abortion.
I guess the way to think of it, for me, is "is the government exploiting the fact that they have the power to detain these people to make their pregnancies result in certain desired outcomes?". Pregnancy is one of those things that's very much in its own category, because it has the capacity for morbidity and even mortality, but that's rare, because terminations are largely "elective", but that word is pretty disingenuous, as if denial of a similarly elective procedure like a facelift held any of the same consequences as denial of a wanted abortion.  You know what I mean?
I guess I know what you mean. I just don't really agree that a normal pregnancy would result in those negative consequences like you do. I think that's fear mongering.
I mean, any normal pregnancy will end in . . . a child, that you either have to provide for over the course of 18 years, or that you will have to relinquish to others to do so.  It can be a negative thing or a positive thing, but suffice to say, the word "elective" towards either procedure (abortion or continued gestation and labor and delivery) really undercuts the weight of what either outcome means for the life of that person.  I don't think it's fear-mongering to acknowledge that having a child (or another child) will drastically change your life- and not always for the better.
The girls aren’t asking for the government to pay for the abortions
Can you post a source for this?
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emergency_Medical_Treatment_and_Active_Labor_Act
That has absolutely nothing to do with this case. That protects PROVIDERS from repercussions for not treating non-emergent patients without payment prior to rendering services. The abortion clinic is not refusing treatment. The government is trying to block their access to it.
Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emergency_Medical_Treatment_and_Active_Labor_Act HelperBot v1.1 /r/HelperBot_ I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 130204
That's not true. People that are here illegally aren't entitled to federal funds to PAY for medical treatment, but they are entitled to said treatment just like everyone else. These girls have already made arrangements for the abortions to be paid for with private funds, therefore they are entitled to treatment.

Wanting people to die in a fire that are just trying to have a Pap smear. That’s real pro life.
It's also unethical to install fire alarms in religious institutions. If God wants His buildings to remain unburned, God will protect them. Fire alarms are proof of failed faith in the divine.
Former Catholic here. When I was younger I was often seduced by the rich beauty, history, and tradition of the church. I really did believe that they have the rightful claim to the universal truth. I loved reading about figures like Newman, Aquinas, and other church brilliant church fathers and authorities. However when I see the dept's of their anti-abortion crusade, all that is lost. These people will literally do anything to promote their "pro-life" cause. You wanna know what the shameful thing is? Donald J. Trump is on record making fun of the Eurachrist! a centuries-old Catholic tradition. Yet most Catholics in the U.S today, openly support him! contrast this with Saints and Martyrs of the early church days who literally died for standing up for what they believed. I wonder how Jesus would view the church today, selling its soul for political power.
Eurachrist.....?
Y'know, the European Christ.
It's also unethical to fuck little boys, Catholic priest.
Is it also unethical to install fire alarms in a business next to a Planned Parenthood?
Comparing Plan Parenthood to KKK and Nazis. Not surprised. Should I compare priests to pedophiles?
Here is the thing though. Martin Luther King Jr. actually supported Planned Parenthood He is quoted as saying “I have always been deeply interested in and sympathetic with the total work of the Planned Parenthood Federation.” He repeatedly wrote about why family planning programs are important, and why they need to be funded by the government. To make the connection of Planned Parenthood being associated with the KKK is wrong and ignorant. Where as talking about Priests and Pedophiles? I could pick a news article every week that deals with abuse.
Because he like any sane person knows Plan Parenthood helps to save lives as well as improve the quality of life for many women. A priest will never understand that.
How can you advocate life by killing?
It’s similiar to the embryo v child in a burning fertility clinic thought experiment . So the answer is dont install any fire alarms in the first place !
It's unethical to be using Reddit, the website for homosexuals, while claiming you have FIRE under control even though you can't even keep your cock away from children.
Why would this be surprising?  I don't think anyone would help out someone or an organisation that they believed was killing people for a living. I think everyone who is shocked by this is just being really dishonest with themselves or really clueless about what the other sides views are.

Yet these groups do not push for more social programs, fostering, adopting, etc. These people have the worst opinions of those living in poverty and of single mothers.
Congratulations to Doug Jones for his underdog win in Alabama this week. But let us not forget how major figures in the Pro-Life movement supported Roy Moore:National Right to Life the nation's oldest and largest pro-life organization supported Roy Moore https://www.roymoore.org/Press-Releases/112/National-Right-to-Life-Endorses-Judge-Roy-Moore-in-Alabama-Senate-Special-ElectionMany Anti Choice Extremists threw press conferences in support of Roy Moore. Such as: Janet Porter, the president of anti-choice group Faith2Action. Rusty Thomas, director of the radical anti-choice group Operation Save America. Flip Benham, who formerly directed Operation Save America. and others: https://rewire.news/article/2017/11/16/anti-choice-extremists-throw-press-conference-support-roy-moore/More endorsements here: https://rewire.news/article/2017/12/13/abortion-rights-foes-flail-finger-point-mourn-roy-moore-falls-alabama/Jerry Falwell Jr. Son of Moral Majority Founder Jerry Falwell, and president of the largest evangelical university in the world. Rumor has it that Liberty University has been trying to train lawyers in an effort to overturn Roe v. Wade. https://twitter.com/JerryFalwellJr/status/940384467851587584Life Site News. A far-right Catholic publication also supported Roy Moore in numerous articles https://www.lifesitenews.com/news/breaking-alabama-special-electionThat's all I could gather. Let me know if I am missing anything. It is important that we highlight the "Pro-Life" movement's moral bankruptcy in that they literally supported such a dubious person. Along with his sexual misconduct allegations Roy Moore is well known for extremely controversial views and statements. He's made numerous openly homophobic, racist, and misogynistic remarks. He even suggested that every amendment to the Constitution after the 10th was a mistake. This includes amendments abolishing slavery, extending the vote to women, and lowering the voting age to 18. He was removed as a judge multiple times because he placed his interpretation of religious doctrine ahead of interpreting the law, only to be re-elected. He's popular with extremely religious conservatives, which are well represented in Alabama.Never let the pro-life movement forget about Roy Moore.
Pro life has never been about life. Rather anti abortion. I will never forget a Catholic hospital that told a man he could not sue for the death of his wife and twin children who died during child labor. They told him that he could only sue for his wife. Despite the fact the twin boys were viable. I wish they would be honest. Abortion is one of the last ways they can control women. They are holding on to it for dear life.
Well they think its killing a child. So yeah?
No to be pro life you have to care about all life not just a certain group or age range.
And people who are pro choice have to be pro choice in every possible situation? Like they should have the choice to own guns? Pro life and pro choice are just a way of dressing up the sides as 'anti abortion' and 'not anti abortion.'
What? My point is that most pro life people aren't for social programs, are bigots, don't adopt or foster etc yet claim to be pro-life.
And most pro choice people aren't libertarians. Pro-life doesn't literally mean pro life. Just like pro choice doesn't mean they're pro all choices. As I said, those terms are dressing up the sides as 'anti abortion' and 'not anti abortion.'
Why do pro choice have to be libertarians? Pro choice refers to those for the rights of choosing. That simple.
I'm pointing out that the choice doesn't have to be regarding abortion by the same logic that pro life doesn't have to be regarding abortion. So if im pro choice I'm pro gun because people should have the right to choose to bear arms.
whats your point?
Pro life just means anti abortion.
pro life in the womb only. once you're out, go fuck yourself.
We should hang this noose around their necks.

The Handmaid's Tale.

Oh look, more blatant TRAP laws. Accomplishes nothing other than making people afraid of being completely honest with their doctor, someone who is supposed to be there to help and advise you.
I don't even know how they think they could enforce this load of crap.
They can't, its virtue signalling. Just like 90% of pro life lawmaking.
But that's a situation when abortion is extremely important. What the fuck.
I'd say it's a situation when choice is important. Disability, either of the fetus or either parent, is one area where some people really do feel pushed to abort when they either don't want to or don't feel they have enough information for an educated choice.
Man its nice to see an educated view on disability. People should know exactly what they're in for with a child with downes. The child is going to have a risk of specific developmental and health problems which can be treated in a certain way but is also going to be very joyful. Some people can't handle that, which is perfectly fine, but some people may be able want to raise a child like that.
Fucking unbelievable
This makes no sense. How can they enforce this? How will they know that a doctor performed an abortion on a down-syndrome baby? It is like law-makers forget abortions are private matter, how will they enforce this without breaking other laws?
Exactly shouldn't this go against Roe since it was decided on abortion being a private decision?
That will likely be something for the Supreme Court to decide. It will no doubt be challenged if Kasich signs it. I also have no doubt that Ohio will spend millions and millions of tax-payer dollars to try and defend this abomination of a law. Ultimately, I think it would be struck down as unconstitutional. Then Texas will pass the exact same law then spend millions and millions of tax payer dollars to defend a law that they knew for a fact was unconstitutional when they passed it. Edit: Just saw an article where Indiana's law that bans abortions when there's a genetic abnormality has already been declared unconstitutional by a federal judge. So, I guess Ohio is just as irresponsible with their tax revenue as Texas.
They can't enforce it and they know it. This is just a ploy to try and scare doctors out of providing abortions by using vague wording that makes it difficult for them to know exactly what they should be doing in order to follow the law and avoid being charged with a 4th degree felony, losing their medical license, going to jail for 18 months and being fined $5000. When they can't do anything to stop women from going to abortion clinics, they resort to doing their damnedest to close all the clinics.

That is refreshing and progress in the right direction, especially as in the past women have died because of the abortion ban in Ireland: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2012/nov/14/ireland-woman-dies-after-abortion-refusal
It's excellent for many reasons, but it wouldn't have saved Savita, given that she was 17 weeks along with a wanted pregnancy, where abortion to save her life was legal. But hopefully this move means that the cultural tide is shifting a little over there.
I've seen a few articles mostly about plan parenthood having to face justice and as I am new to North America I would like to know what prochoicers here think about that, if possible give context and explanations for your opinions it would be helpful.
It's harassment based on lies. Anti-choice folks will stop at nothing to impose their will on others.
"Face justice" implies wrongdoing, which not only has not been proven, but has actively been disproven in multiple cases.  Twelve states have investigated and found no illegal activity taking place, and many, many people have analyzed the videos and explained how tissue donation works (costs for handling and transportation must be covered by the recipients). People who are still harping on this are either willfully ignorant, conspiracy theorists, or activists and politicians looking to stir up their base and/or win votes by putting it back or keeping it in the news.
Sorry for the poor choice of word English is not my first language, I should probably have said face investigation or something similar.
I believe you mean Planned Parenthood. The current investigation is about donated post-abortive fetal tissue that women choose to donate for research purposes. The investigation was spurred by some anti-abortion advocates that falsified and edited video to paint Planned Parenthood in a bad light. These videos were proven to be untrue. You must also remember that our current government is very heavily biased by poor leadership in the Administration, so likely, the US is spending money on this investigation unnecessarily, and will turn up no new information. Planned Parenthood has always worked hard to be transparent about its facts and figures, as well as its practices. Planned Parenthood is a wonderful part of healthcare in the US. Primarily, people associate it with abortion care, but less than 5% of what they do is actually abortion. THey do a great deal of work toward sexual education, prevention of transmission of disease, provision of healthcare, and prevention of pregnancy. According the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, their investigation was largely about monetary issues.  You can read their report at the link above.also be concerned with monetizatoin. We can posit that the DOJ investigation will  Again, this is heavily biased information, and heavily led by conservative Republican values. It is largely a smear campaign against the agency, which happens on a fairly regular basis, because there will always be people both for, and against abortion care. The issue of fetal tissue donation for research of itself has the potential to better millions of human lives via stem cell research. The tissue being donated is no longer a sustainable life, it is just tissue at this point. If I had the ability to save someone's life because of stem cells, I would decidedly advocate for that! That said, it costs money to transfer any medical tissue, or to have any medical procedure, and they just want to make sure that Planned Parenthood is not selling post abortive fetal tissue, only covering actual costs.
Faire enough and your way of explaining in the last paragraph seem much more likely and reasonable than what I got from some of the more radical prolifer who back their arguments of gruesome photos of bloody foetus body part.By the way sorry for the writing mistake.
Please know, those pictures are the result of Photoshop, manipulation, and falsification.
Thank you for the precision because these pictures seemed highly unlikely to me and not really corresponding to how abortion is described in medical dictionaries, why would the doctor need to dismember a foetus to abort it really. I was mostly trying to understand both side of the argument and I encountered way too many radical people that don't really back their arguments with logical proof.
"why would the doctor need to dismember a foetus to abort it really" In abortions after the first trimester, the tissue may indeed need to come out in pieces, although "dismember" is a unnecessarily emotional word meant to be evoke disgust, etc..  Earlier on, the uterus can be evacuated by suction aspiration (applying suction through a cannula, a thin plastic tube), but as the fetus becomes more developed, the tissue will also have be removed in pieces with forceps.  Remember, everything has to come out through the cervix, which is normally very small and nowhere near the size, softness, and stretchiness it becomes during labor.  If the abortion removes tissue in pieces, the doctor typically needs to examine everything and somewhat re-assemble after the fact to make sure all the pieces are there and accounted for.  It sounds gruesome, but it's for the woman's safety- leaving tissue in the womb can lead to serious, even potentially deadly, infection. Having said that, though- always take any pictures from the anti-abortion movement with a grain of salt (if you even take them seriously at all).  Always question the source- someone has to take and then disseminate the pictures, and it's not like abortion providers are in the habit of snapping pictures to share on Facebook.  Frequently, pictures that are supposedly of abortions are actually fetuses who were stillborn, miscarried, or Voldemort (that last picture is from the Harry Potter movie, but just as a caution to squeamish people- he's gross-looking).  And yes, photoshop may be employed as well. But ultimately, abortions are kinda gross and bloody, the same way any surgical procedure is gross and bloody, and yes, a fair number of people do or would feel conflicted or squeamish at later-term abortion imagery when/if they see what it actually looks like.  The task at hand is to separate out personal revulsion from moral feelings.  Going "Yuck!" is not a substitute for an actual thought-out argument.
Thank you for that precision and of course I didn't think it was a neat procedures because even giving birth can be kind of gross anyway, there is blood and other fluids everywhere. "Going "Yuck!" is not a substitute for an actual thought-out argument." Exactly, that's what is getting me mad because throwing gross pictures in people's face is not really useful to the argument taking place.
Planned Parenthood just had an investigation after the "undercover" videos came out and nothing was found.  The people who produced and edited the videos have on the other hand been arrested over it.  They're just trying to do anything they can think of to hurt Planned Parenthood, also an investigation helps rile up their anti choice voting base.
That's what I thought because honestly if Planned Parenthood had done all these things they would have been discovered earlier and there would be more outrage among the women who were helped to abort by PP.
My life in foster care helped me decide.
Can you elaborate more on why life in foster care helped you become pro-choice?
Personally I feel as a child who had a mother who never wanted me or my sister is why she let her boyfriend abuse us and why she did not fight for us when we got taken away and put into foster care. A woman should not be forced to have a child. Not only that but some  of my foster homes were bad. I experienced abuse there too. Adoption is not the answer either.
I was adopted. Yeah, maybe the first few years weren't great but I'm so happy I got the chance to make my life better.
But many children do not. Why put children through suffering and even death?
If the child is an infant, especially if theyre white and drug free, they will have no problem finding a home. Having said that, I'm still very much pro-choice. But your reasoning for being pro choice being "a child deserves it more because adoption is so shitty" is not a good stance.
I didn't suffer. Look, I'm really sorry about what you went through, but just because you suffered and wish you hadn't been born certainly doesn't mean you speak for everyone who has been adopted or in the foster program. I encourage you to seek professional help it definitely sounds like you are depressed.  I wish you all the best.
OP was giving their personal reason for being pro-choice, not speaking for everyone who was adopted or in foster care.
That's fine everyone is entitled to theirs, it just sounds like OP is saying the only reasons she supports abortion is because the adoption/foster system is so aweful. I'm saying it's not. There are many good reasons to be pro-choice but this isn't one of them.
This isn't one of them...for you. The system varies a lot by location and is better funded in some states than others. Maybe OP was in one of those underfunded states. Maybe her experience was awful. We don't get to say how something made someone else feel.
Maybe you should read more of of the responses by OP in this thread.
Why not? As a person with adoption in my family it seems like the answer to me.
Always felt it should be a woman's choice no matter the circumstances. Setting laws about what we can do with our own vaginas is a dangerous precedent and a slippery slope to "the government has more power over my body than me." Heavily cemented my pro-choice beliefs through the need for an abortion myself, the failure of my medical abortion and the way the clinic was the only resource supporting me through the process.
The more I thought about it the more I realised I would most definitely get one if I was pregnant and I wasn't ready and it would be hypocritical for me to judge anyone else doing it. Also I believe rape victims shouldn't have to have a baby. They didn't consent to sex so they shouldn't have to go through with a pregnancy they don't want.
I want to preface this by saying I am a man. For as long as I can remember abortion being an issue, I've always thought it was preposterous to equate the rights of a living, breathing infant, with a premature fetus. That was back when I actually had a lot of Christian values. Now that I am a firm non-believer, when I see the issue come up and realize that the majority of conservative evangelicals care more about an unborn person than most of their fellow men and women, it has reaffirmed the pro-choice belief I have always had. These are the people who will vote that those with unplanned pregnancies shouldn't have a choice to terminate their pregnancy but don't care whatsoever about any other effect that outcome might have. Most of them don't care about insuring women have access to contraceptives. They will profess that abstinence only education should be taught even though it has proven to be ineffective compared to proper sexual education. They don't take into account, or care about things like overpopulation or the perpetuation of poverty that unplanned pregnancies cause for lots of women. I've had pro life friends tell me that if women don't want to get pregnant then they shouldn't have sex, as if sexual desire isn't one of the strongest natural forces in our biology.  Couple that with young teens with brains still developing, who can't fully comprehend the consequences of their actions and for the most part think they are immune to adverse consequences because their sense of reason isn't fully developed. Pro-life voters are also for the most part against social welfare programs that would help these mothers take care of the child they didn't want to conceive.     And of course when they say adoption is always an alternative, they can conveniently ignore how truly terrible America's foster care system is. In short, I believe in quality of life, not quantity of life. Forcing women to have unwanted children, on average, lessens the quality of both the mother and child's lives and makes society as a whole pay for it one way or another, whether it is through taxes, fewer jobs, more contributors to things like climate change, or higher crime rates.
In high school, I learned about abortion and thought about it.  I decided I'd never get one because I thought the baby was a person early on enough, and that seemed like murder.  I was pro-choice for rights reasons though, I think. Later though, reading, discussion, feminist ideas, anger at women sometimes being exploited through their kindness and desire to help. Also learning more about the bodily autonomy discussion really just isn't about wanting to kill babies or something.  It's affecting women in other situations around pregnancy where a side-effect is that other people have control over her.  This podcast opened my eyes about some of the other problems caused. Bodily sovereignty / bodily autonomy is what does it for me.  Whether or not the child is a full person, the woman is, and her body always belongs to her, even if another person starts growing inside it.  "But it's a person, you can't kill a person" currently just seems like guilting women into being used for their wombs.  It's her womb, it's under her sovereignty.
I actually won an award for a anti-abortion poem I wrote in 8th grade. When I started my period and pregnancy was actually possible for me I was like wait what, no way. Between then and now, I also got the mental illness diagnosis that runs in the family, and I can't think of a more selfish act than knowingly making a kid who will have mental illness.
As a foster parent, may I please just apologize to you for what you experienced? I, too, use my experiences as a foster parent to show that abortion is a legal, necessary, safe medical procedure. I had quite a few foster kids who were never adopted and got stuck in the system. While I do believe in adoption, and more and more children of color do get adopted these days, I know that it does not work out for everyone.
I was raised by conservative Republic parents, but my mother (an RN) was adamantly pro-choice! She didn't believe anyone had the right to tell a woman what she could or couldn't do with her body. I think part of that came from her years as a public health nurse and the tragic stories she heard on a daily basis. Our town was next to a military base, so there were many babies whose fathers were soldiers -- many of whom refused to even acknowledge their offspring (back then, there was no way to prove paternity). Some of the women were on their fourth or fifth child, with a different father for each baby. Mom also saw how difficult it was to find adoptive parents for mixed-race children (this was the 1950s) and what kind of a life those little kids were facing. The mothers were on welfare, and often there wasn't much to eat in their homes. The experience turned her into a devoted supporter of Planned Parenthood -- I'll always respect her for that. In high school, I saw what happened when girls "got themselves pregnant" and had to drop out of school. Only the ones who had given their babies up or married were allowed to return. The ones who married didn't seem as happy and certainly not as carefree as they'd been. The ones who had given their babies up seemed either quieter or much more "out there", as if defying anyone to criticize them (I thought they showed the most courage). Some girls kept their babies and raised them alone -- I never knew what happened to them. I'm sure quite a few others had abortions, but it wasn't talked about (illegal and "not something good girls did"). I think several became very sick with "period" issues and went to live with an aunt -- just guessing, but I think they might have tried to abort themselves. I lived in Phoenix around that time; I don't know how active Planned Parenthood was permitted to be in Arizona. In home ec and PE, we were never show health films or instructed in what happens during sex or exactly how pregnancy happens!! It was a very politically and morally conservative area, which didn't stop us from experimenting with our boyfriends! I guess the school board assumed if we didn't know anything about sex we wouldn't try to find out on our own. Yeah, that always works.
It actually came along through Libertarianism, actually- which is ironic, considering I'm a big ol' liberal now and definitely not a Libertarian.  But as a wee high schooler reading Ayn Rand for the first time, I was swept away by her rhetoric, and it really made sense- of course you can't criminalize abortion if you're for small government, personal liberty, and opposition to government interference.  Of course it's impossible to be truly free if you don't have control over your reproduction. It wasn't until later, in college, that I started to become more of a feminist and think about it beyond just the "no unnecessary regulation" aspect, that I really identified as pro-choice, rather than just having a mere opinion on abortion.  I was very big into sex positivity at the time and learning as much as I possibly could about sexuality, sexual orientation, birth control, etc., and learning about abortion just kind of flowed from there.  The more I learned, the more I explained (on Yahoo! Answers, particularly, I took great exhilaration in correcting the abundant misinformation in others' answers), the more pro-choice I became. There's no single event, personal experience, or reason really made me pro-choice- it's all been a layered thing over the course of much thinking and reading/watching.  Like a lot of people, it's not just about bodily autonomy, or just maternal morbidity/mortality as a result of abortion criminalization, or just about women's rights, or just about my lack of a belief in fetal personhood.  They all combine together to make sense, in my mind, that the most moral course of action is to support women and the choice to abort if they want.

Governor Tom Wolf (D-PA) will veto this. This is why voting to elect Democrats is so important, people!
Hey, I'm not very knowledgeable on the subject but why even change the law, there already one in place it seems a bit pointless?
Unless I'm mistaken, there's not already a law in place.  Per Guttmacher, last updated 12-1-17, Pennsylvania limits abortion to 24 weeks from the last menstrual period, ergo abortions at or after 20 weeks are allowed, but those after 24 weeks are curtailed. According to Rewire, a similar bill, SB888, failed to pass in 2016. As to why change the law- well, there are different theories floating around.  Anti-abortion folks will tell you it's because science has now illuminated to us that a 20-week fetus can feel pain (it cannot).  There's always the general usefulness of stirring up your base and rallying the constituents by bringing up abortion and getting a recorded vote that you can later use in your campaign (or conversely, your opponent's vote).  And I personally view it as a way to undermine Roe v. Wade, whose trimester framework (must be legal in the first two trimesters, able to be banned by states in the third trimester) has been in place since the ruling.  By moving the cut-off time into the late second trimester, particularly when using false science, they seek to destroy the trimester framework, which will allow for further legislative attacks for earlier and earlier abortions, based on, again, more false science.

The Global Gag Rule. Every Republican President implements it, every Democratic President rescinds it. This is why voting blue is so important.

This is the best tl;dr I could make, original reduced by 80%. (I'm a bot) Extended Summary | FAQ | Feedback | Top keywords: woman#1 sentence#2 court#3 Vasquez#4 baby#5
The pro-life movement always like to claims that their position is based on "scientific fact" and that pro-choicers deny science and medical facts. Well, just a cursory glance will show that the majority of our country's prestigious, non-partisan and reputable medical organizations have expressed pro-choice positions.The American Medical Association has also moved away from a strongly pro-life position into an attitude supporting that resolution that abortion is not Murder. In 1859, the AMA said abortion as “the slaughter of countless children, such unwarranted destruction of human life.” Twelve years later, in 1871, the AMA referred to abortion as “the work of destruction, the wholesale destruction of unborn infants.” By 1967, AMA called abortion “the interruption of pregnancy; the induced termination of pregnancy.” By 1970, abortion was simply called “a medical procedure."American Medical Association: "[We] oppose legislative interference with the practice of medicine and a woman’s relationship with her doctor... Access to safe and legal abortion is an important aspect of women’s health care. Abortion is one of the safest medical procedures performed in the United States."https://abortion.procon.org/view.source.php?sourceID=012767&print=trueAcademy of Family Physicians: "RESOLVED, That the American Academy of Family Physicians support chapter efforts that oppose legislation that imposes on abortion providers unnecessary requirements that infringe on the practice of evidence-based medicine, and be it furtherRESOLVED, That the American Academy of Family Physicians oppose national legislation that imposes unnecessary requirements on abortion providers, reducing doctors’ ability to provide evidence-based and patient-centered care."http://www.aafp.org/dam/AAFP/documents/events/alf_ncsc/business/sat-advocacy.pdfAssociation of Reproductive Health Care Professionals: “Abortion care is a critical component of comprehensive reproductive health care, and ARHP supports a woman’s right to choose to have an abortion. The decision to continue or terminate a pregnancy belongs to the pregnant woman. ARHP opposes any judicial, legislative, or administrative attempt at the local, state, or federal levels to ban any abortion procedure or medical procedure to terminate a pregnancy.http://www.arhp.org/about-us/position-statementsThe American Society for Reproductive Medicine represents fertility specialists in the United States and more than 100 other countries.The group's spokesman, Sean Tipton, his organization opposed a Mississippi initiative to define Life beginning at conception. Tipton says while a fertilized egg "is necessary to make a person, fertilization alone is not enough to create a new human being.  "A fertilized egg has to continue to grow, attach itself to a woman's uterine wall and gestate for nine months before it is born, and there are many potential missteps (that can happen) along the way."The group took a similar stand in another situation.  The president of the Washington D.C.-based American Society for Reproductive Medicine took a strong public stand, writing in its February bulletin that the idea life begins at conception is in the same league as "fake news" and "disinformation." http://www.desmoinesregister.com/story/opinion/columnists/rekha-basu/2017/03/30/basu-myths-like-life-begins-conception-dont-belong-law/99826940/So the next time Pro Lifers try to argue that we are denying science and medical facts, kindly remind them that the majority of the established medical community clearly supports reproductive rights. This is not an argument from authority, it is simply showing where the facts are.
The funny thing is many anti-abortion make up science. I went to Catholic schools for many years and the lies they tell is disgusting.
The entire basis of the pro-life movement is based on lies. Fetal Pain? Lies. Planned Parenthood sells baby parts? Lies. The majority of women regret abortions? Lies. It's a never-ending circle of intellectual dishonesty.
The reason pro-lifers believe science is on their side is because of the romanticization of the word "human". "Human" is a species name. Human and fetus are two separate words with distinct meanings, yet pro-lifers are unable to distinguish the two. One is the species name and the other is the name for a developing embryo. Calling something a human fetus is no more significant than calling something a human thumb. "Human" classifies the species in question and the noun that follows classifies the appendage being addressed. Pro-lifers see the words "human" and "fetus" together and they think that it means that a fetus is a human being... however, what constitutes a human being is more of a cultural or subjective definition. Additionally, science does not concern itself with morality. Science can only explain a process, it cannot tell us if something is "right" or "wrong". Those are entirely subjective principles and laws should be based on OBJECTIVITY not the former. The only logical laws are laws that protect the common interest of an individual.

The author seems not to believe this.
I recently had a medical abortion at a few weeks pregnant. And now, theres a fire in me, and i want to discuss my experience on the web, and hope that as many people as possible can read this. If it helps one person feel more at ease, then I'm happy. It may be worth noting I am in England, i know methods can vary elsewhere.For me, the most difficult aspect was the psychological part, not because I was unsure of my choice, but because of the stigma and the taboo surrounding abortion, the lack of conversation around it, and stepping into the unknown, making me feel like I should feel overwhelmed and scared of what was coming. Having been through it now, I feel an injustice at the way that society - albeit unintentionally- can make someone feel like this. Also, because of the lack of talk, I read quite a few experiences online, which were several years old and didn't then mirror what happened to me, I was wrongly informed and needlessly scared. I took a test on a Tuesday which came up positive, and called Marie Stopes immediately, making an appointment for the Friday. Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, I was at work but emotional and overwhelmed - not much use in the office. My friends were very supportive but my head was everywhere, for reasons mentioned above. 3 days is not very long to wait but I was so nervous it was tough. On Friday, I met with nurses, had a scan, (booked an appointment to get a coil fitted a few weeks later) and was asked all the standard medical questions affecting my suitability to the treatment. They made everything seem so much more normal and I felt so much better about everything from then on. The only question I wasn't prepared for was 'why do you want this abortion' which I couldn't really put into words. The nurse helped me word it, and explained it was a legal requirement to answer it. what? Must I justify what I want to do with my body? After a 45 minute wait for the application to be signed off by 2 doctors, I took the first tablet (with an anti sickness tablet) and was good to go. I made the follow up appointment for the Sunday. On Friday I had some mildish cramps, so I holed up on the sofa with a hot water bottle. nothing I couldn't handle. No painkillers needed. On Saturday I actually went to work for 12 hours. This was a bad idea because I was aware of possible side effects. But because I couldn't get my shift covered, I felt pressured to go in. Luckily, other than the cramps on Friday, I didn't experience any other side effects. No bleeding, nausea, anything. I went back to the clinic on Sunday, where I had not even a ten minute wait. took an anti sickness tablet and was given some antibiotics to take after dinner. then I was given 4 tablets to keep against my gums for half an hour. as soon as the tablets were in my mouth I was free to go, and given a 24 hour number to call with any concerns. Having read other reviews online, I thought that i would have to stay there while I passed the pregnancy. I'm much happier I was able to go straight home! To sum the sunday up - I had mild to moderate cramps for about 6 hours. I started bleeding an hour after taking the tablets, clots coming out while I was in the bathroom. I had about half an hour of very bad cramps, and after that passed I was convinced it would get worse, I kept thinking 'that can't be it'- it was. I saw the 'sack' come out in one of my clots shortly after. I understand everyone reacts differently, some worse than others. I think I was lucky to have fairly mild symptoms with few side effects, and I wonder if that's due to how early I found out I was pregnant, and how quickly i managed to get treatment. The next morning I woke up, and I was surprised. I thought I'd feel guilty, and that it would affect me mentally for a long time. I felt relieved as I know I did the right thing for me. All of that mental anguish for the week seemed almost unnecessary. I didn't feel like a horrible person. I felt normal. I just think it's such a shame that there isn't enough talk around abortion, and that other people out there are going through what I went through, feeling as though they are doing something which is such an unspeakable rarity. I read in one article that 1 in 3 women in the UK have abortions. I'm not sure whether this is correct, but I think it's time women shared their experiences more openly with one another, to help women in the future to make their decision without having to deal with the emotional baggage of stigmas and taboos.
It's great that you feel comfortable sharing your experience. It's just that not everyone is in a position to do that.
Thank you for sharing. Unfortunately abortion is still technically illegal in the UK except under certain circumstances, which is why you were made to justify your decision. It's also why you had to go back to the clinic on Sunday to take the second set of pills, rather than being allowed to take them at home as women do in many other countries. There is a campaign to decriminalise abortion completely which is gaining a lot of support. If you feel up to it, you'd be doing the campaign a huge favour by writing to your MP to let them know you support decriminalisation and how you would have preferred not to have to justify your need for abortion. More info here: https://www.wetrustwomen.org.uk
Such an important campaign.
I was watching a PBS documentary about women's rights, and in it was a clip of a woman trying to get an abortion in the mid 20th century.  She was being interviewed, and in it she said that she has no hard feelings towards those who reject abortion on a religious basis.I ask because about a year ago I was in conversation with a strong pro-choice person when it came up that I did not support abortion.  She got extremely upset with me, even though it was for religious reasons.I can assure you I do not hold my opinion on a basis of trying to feel superior to women by limiting their choice.  I follow the same beliefs of my mother, and her mother, etc.  Do you understand and accept my (and many others') reasons?Sorry if I said anything insensitive or anything.  I'm all for gender equality, but this is one of the few places I have ever disagreed.  I'm not looking for debate, just your opinion on those who reject based on religion.
Don't have a problem with anyone who makes a decision for themselves based on religion or any other reason. The problem is when people use religion to justify making a decision for other people. It's a violation of the ideals of freedom of religion.
That's a very nice way of thinking about it.  Something I haven't really thought of before.  My only issue with it is that it would be hypocritical for a woman to believe abortion is wrong, but then advocate for pro-choice, wouldn't it? Now I see where this almost paradoxical controversy comes from.  It truly is a fine line. I guess based off of your response, I wouldn't really consider myself pro-life or pro-choice.  I'm not trying to take away other people's choices because that isn't my place to do so.  But at the same time, I do not support abortion.  Kind of like how I will never criticize people of other religions, even though I do not support their beliefs. Thank you for the awesome response.  I'm curious to hear your thoughts on my reply.
You are pro-choice. That is all that term means, that you think people should get to choose for themselves. You can be horrified by abortion and still be pro-choice.
Yep. I have a friend like this. She wouldn't get an abortion herself cause she thinks it's wrong (religious reasons) but she thinks that a woman definitely has the right to do what she wants with her body.
I believe Former Vice President Joe Biden has said believes that abortion is always wrong, but wouldn't impose that belief on others. I think the simplest way to reconcile this would be to advocate against abortion in ways that do not include banning it on a legal level or using coercion in any way. I am pro-choice, but I agree that there should be as few abortions as possible. Which is why I support access to effective contraception and strong sex education as they would reduce the need for abortions.
You’re right, it was Joe. I guess my beliefs best align with his. I guess I personally wouldn’t consider that to be either pro-choice or pro-life, because in my ideal world abortion would be made illegal. But at the same time, it isn’t my right to decide that for someone else who may not see it that way. Not to mention I’m never going to have to carry a kid around for 9 months. But I guess if I had it my way, sauerkraut would also be illegal. So who am I to be making decisions for others?
Everybody is entitled to their beliefs, of course, but then again, that doesn't mean they're exempt from criticism.  In the same way that I think religious edicts on homosexuality, sex work, slavery, etc. can be criticized, so too do I think we can express criticism of religious stances on abortion. It's one thing to privately hold the religious belief that an act is immoral, and to thus not commit what you believe to be sins (or to ask forgiveness if already committed).  It's definitely another to attempt to influence others through harassment ("sidewalk counseling", protesting with provocative imagery, intimidation of providers, etc.) or advocacy of legal criminalization (campaigning, voting, etc.).  To a certain extent, non-religious anti-abortion folks probably have it somewhat easier, as they can argue on general moral grounds without being accused of wanting a theocracy, infringing on the separation of church and state, and so on. I will say, though, that even the anti-abortion Christian who keeps his or her mouth shut unless specifically invited to speak on their opinions is still going to raise my ire, precisely because they still work to indoctrinate their children and congregants to view abortion as shameful and wrong.  As a pro-choice person, I'm fighting not only to keep abortion safe and legal, but also to fight the stigma around it.  So naturally, religion (for the most part) is going to be an enemy in that regard.  It's the same way that yeah, Lawrence v. Texas officially decriminalized homosexuality, but we can still fight the noxious "love the sinner, hate the sin" mentality that continues to harm LGBT folks. And lastly, I get very pissed off when religious anti-abortion folks don't know their own history.  If you're going to use your religion to argue, you better know what you're talking about.  Know that there are pro-choice folks of all faith.  Know that a sizeable number of women getting abortions identify as religious.  Understand that back in the pre-Roe days, plenty of clergy was active in advocating for legalization (to save women's lives).  Get your history straight in terms of the Christian right and Moral Majority movement that made Evangelical Christianity much more political.  Know about the history of abortion and just how new the idea of "life at conception" actually is (quickening, anybody?).  If you're male, keep in mind that you belong to a religion that is inherently very patriarchal (and sometimes misogynistic) and think about how that influences what sort of rules get written (whether you think that your text is to be taken literally, or was divinely inspired but interpreted by fallible men).  Ask yourself if you harbor any feelings about abortion that you can conveniently hide behind your religion- after all, it's easy to make righteous condemnations when you would've gladly condemned anyways.  And as always, take a good, hard look at why atheists and secular people might be upset by religious anti-abortion folks- hearing tales of Christian love, acceptance, and forgiveness only to instead see something that looks very opposite in practice by those with crosses around their necks and fish bumper stickers on their cars.
People can hold two kinds of religious views: Those that are applicable to others (thou shalt not kill). Those that are not applicable to others (do not commit adultery). For some people who are religiously opposed to abortion, it falls into the first category.  For others, it falls into the second.
People can have whatever personal views they want. That is the beauty of our constitution. However, trying to force others to abide by those moral codes is wrong. If you try to use religion to justify being anti-abortion when it comes to a formal debate or advocating legislative action. I have no respect for you. One could argue that there really isn't even a good case for Christians to be anti-abortion anyways. I would say only Catholics have a good basis towards being pro-life and even that is tenable when you look at scripture.
Anti-choice views still don't work when they are hiding behind a religion. Just because they are religious-driven doesn't make them any more acceptable or okay.
Very interesting response.  I guess I'm a bit confused as to why you look down upon people who use religion as the basis of their abortion beliefs.  Perhaps I'm in the wrong place because of course this page will result in more extremist views rather than your everyday pro-choice person, though I applaud you for putting your heart into something so controversial. For example, humans also have the choice to steal.  Or have an affair.  But the Bible would consider those sins.  If the Church regards abortion as a sin, how is that any different?  I don't think most people would shame religious people for being against affairs too... Again, not looking to argue.  I am genuinely curious because this has never really made much sense in my own mind.  But growing up in a very rural town and going to a Catholic college (I am not Catholic, however) has limited my experience.
Heh...love how you downvoted me, but didn't have even a single counterpoint to share. Too late now!
I actually wasn’t the one to downvote you. I didn’t mind your response at all. If you want, I could even show you a screenshot that I wasn’t the downvoter. Like I said, I wasn’t looking for argument in this post, so your differing viewpoint is more than welcome and I’m sorry if I made you feel otherwise. I was in the middle of a reply to you about two hours ago, but my professor walked in and began class before I had a chance to finish, so I abandoned for the time being. All I really said was that by Church (with a capital C) I meant the Roman Catholic Church. But I understand what you mean by differing church opinions and beliefs, because I myself am not Catholic, but go to a Catholic college and therefore will not attend church here though I consider myself very religious. I’m sorry that you thought I downvoted you to avoid any conflict. Again, I can assure you I was not the downvoter. I’m sorry that you think badly of me.
I apologize, my mistake.
No hard feelings friend
I like how you phrased this -- the Bible does define what most Christians define as sin. If I recall correctly, there were like, ten? You go on to say, "If the Church regards..." which is a difficulty in semantics. The Bible defined ten sins...the Church seems to have made up others, depending on their own interpretations,  beliefs and emotions. And, because of the joy of sects, different denominations claim different sins depending on their interpretations...and some go a step further to demand your loyalty to only one version of the Bible. Whether the issue is abortion or something else, religion does not provide a consistently reliable system of beliefs for anything I might choose to do. One religion says, no drinking, another says drinking is ok. Same with dancing, being gay, free will, and yes, even abortion. Religious systems are in such conflict, even with one another, that attempting to live your life according to "the church," regardless which church is yours, can be fraught with confusion and pain. I am (obviously) not at all religious. I live a good life, do a great deal of good for others, and I am pro-choice and pro-child. I believe that women do have to have the choice to have a safe medical procedure, and I believe that every child born should be wanted, loved, safe, and well-provided for. Not providing this safe, legal medical choice results provenly in the death of women, which seems to me to be a far greater shame than the existence of a fetus. By the way, defining people on this page as "more extremist" is a mischaracterization. We are every day folks, just like you, talking about our views, and hoping, just as you have, that a calm and logical conversational exchange happens. *edit:typo
I used to be Christian. So, I understand why some people think it should be illegal to have an abortion, but I don't respect their ideas or thoughts on it (anymore). People deserve respect, not their opinions. Especially when those opinions aren't based on facts. I saw how many of my friends at church thought about abortion, but still ate shrimp and mixed fabrics. By the Bible's standards from my understanding, eating shrimp and mixing fabrics and being gay are all equally as bad as abortion because it's "murder" and it's going against god's will. In the Bible, god commanded his followers to kill babies quite brutally (throwing them against rocks), so I also don't understand why abortion would be so frowned upon if throwing babies of a group of people he didn't like is cool. God also says in some passage to his followers to rape the young women that were captured. I wasn't a Christian anymore after reading the parts the pastor liked to skip over on Sunday.
I'm sorry you left the church.  I'm not trying to turn you back or anything, I just can't let that last paragraph slide without my two cents.  God wasn't commanding people to kill babies on rocks.  That was a prayer made by a songwriter to God in the Psalms.  At the time, the Jews had been enslaved by Babylon and that Psalm (137) was a way of asking God for revenge and justice.  However, as God commanded, we shouldn't repay evil with evil. As for the other stuff you mentioned, it either comes down to being in the Bible because of an old tradition (shrimp and fabrics) or morality. The only thing I don't understand about your comment: But you also said This is an issue I have with a lot of society today.  People accept respect anytime, but only give it out when it is convenient.  By your own words, shouldn't you respect those who follow their religious beliefs? And please don't tell me what everyone else does.  "Religious people don't respect my beliefs so I won't respect theirs."  That's called stereotyping, which is the basis for racism, sexism, and everything else wrong with society.  NEVER put people into boxes like that.  Just because one religious person is ignorant to other opinions doesn't mean we all are.  If that were the case, then all women would be stay at home moms and all black people would be locked in prison.  Stereotypes are a detriment to society and I know you can agree.  But for some reason it seems to be okay with religion. Please respect my beliefs. Sorry, this wasn't directed just at you but society in general.
I don't have a Bible on hand at the moment, but I'll look into the psalm I mentioned some more. What about Deuteronomy 21:18-21 where it says to stone your son to death for being rebellious? Why don't we make that a law? If the Bible is what you're supposed to base all of your values upon, why are some parts no longer acceptable? Like shrimp and fabric mixing is no longer considered sinful, while being gay still is? (Not saying you hate gay people or anything, I don't know how you specifically feel about that but it states in the Bible that it's an abomination) It also says multiple times to "fear god" and for me personally, I can't love someone who I am fearful of. I'm also asking these things because I'm curious about how you would explain them, I'm not meaning to attack you, I'm just trying to see your view point. I'm not walking around hating on or being disrespectful to Christians or people who follow a different religion. I treat everyone respectfully, even if I think their beliefs are bullshit or hateful or oppressive. I don't even bring up how I feel about their beliefs unless specifically asked. Everyone has the right to believe what they want and they have free speech. What's not cool is making laws that are based on religious beliefs. Everyone has different beliefs.
Also Ezekiel 23:20, why is that necessary in a holy book? lol
I think you get a lot of negative response when saying it is because of religion because a lot of pro-lifer who are for Abortion are also either against the church or don't have any religion. It also angers people because religion is used a lot to justify to impose decisions on people. I personally respect the choice of people as long as they make a choice for themselves and don't impose their beliefs on others.
I have heard of anti choice being atheist, they were all male though.
There are definetly pro-life women who are atheist/ agnostic.
I didn't say there wasn't I was talking about my experience.
Okay, that's fair. Now you can say you have meet one.
I don't think it's possible to be religious without being a complete idiot. On the other hand, as long as you don't try to push your religious laws on anyone else, you have every right to be stupid.
They aren’t stupid, it’s what they have been brought up to believe . Imagine being in a small town where your social and family life revolves around the church, you would have to be rather exceptional to reject religion and it’s social ramifications.
But you'd have to be a few screws short to actually believe it, surely?
Please read Cults in our Midst.
Though I am strongly pro-abortion, I do empathize with pro-choice people who have a hard time with late-term abortions. Even while vehemently disagreeing, I respect their opinion. OTOH, I have zero respect for anyone who takes a pro-choice stance just because their religion, or their parent's religion says so. While everyone is entitled to their beliefs, they are not entitled to respect for faith.
Useful idiots for the wealthy elite.
I'm sorry you feel that way.  I'm sure you have your reasons for your opinion.  Unfortunately I was actually looking for the response of someone who isn't blatantly rude without reason, and based on your comment history you are not really what I was looking for.  Cheers in whatever it is you are trying to achieve though.  No hard feelings.
Pro-life folks don't seem to be in Flint, trying to save fetuses poisoned to death because their mothers drank the water...PBS: NovaNext
Because they are simply anti-abortion. More pro-choice people I know are more pro-life than anti-abortion people.
Now, I'm pro-life for more reasons than what I discuss below, but they're all probably reasons you've all heard before. I am curious, however, how you guys feel about what freedom of choice the child's mother has versus the father.Obviously, my view is that both the mother and the father have the responsibility to either put the child up for adoption or raise him/her. However, what happens if the father wants an abortion and the mother doesn't? Now it seems that the father is forced to take care of the child through child support at the minimum, even though the mother was given the option to not have the child at all. Is that fair for the father?On the flip side, what if the father wants to keep the child, and is willing to fully take care of him/her, but the mother wants an abortion? Personally, if I were to get a woman pregnant and she decided to have an abortion, killing not only her child, but my child as well, that would be devastating.I know that these scenarios aren't common (particularly the second one), but they do happen. What are your thoughts on them?
To paraphrase your question: should a man who gets a woman pregnant be allowed to force her to give birth against her will; to literally use her body as an incubator? All answers to questions about abortion come down to the bodily autonomy of the pregnant person.
So far, both responses I have gotten have answered the second scenario, but not the first one. Should the father, who wanted an abortion, be forced to pay child support? If not, then I guess we just agree to disagree. If so (which I think most pro-life and pro-choice people would say), then is it not hypocritical to say that a man can't force a woman to be a mother, but a woman can force a man to be a father?
These are two entirely differently scenarios. Don't equate them. Paying child support doesn't equal being a father at all. It's a paycheck so you are financially responsible for your offspring, that are now wholly existing and living things and need to be provided for. Nor is a woman giving birth forcing her to be a mother. It's forcing her to use her body because apparently her own well-being isn't valued more than the well-being of a fetus. And that's the point of the argument.
Huh. I guess usually when I hear pro-choice arguments, they're more about the situation the mother is put in after the child is born rather than during the pregnancy. I still believe a human life is more valuable than preventing 9 months of pregnancy, though that starts moving the discussion away from the original topic, which is a rabbit hole I don't necessarily want to get into. I appreciate the outside perspective on this though, I've just been wondering how you all would feel about it. Edit: Okay, I used the word "discomfort" because I couldn't think of a better one, and I tried to make it clear that I wasn't trying to downplay the difficulties of pregnancy, but people were still getting pissed off, so I changed the wording.
That you consider pregnancy to be just 9 months of discomfort really says a lot. That "discomfort" would have killed me had I not had access to abortion. My life wasn't worth less than a weeks-old fetus, and I'm sorry you feel that way.
I should point out that I don't oppose abortion when the mother's life is in danger, and I believe most pro-lifers would say the same.
That is not a black and white thing. First, physical danger. What qualifies? If the mother has a 50/50 shot at living, can she abort? What if there is only a 10% chance of her death? What if one doctor says the pregnancy could easily become life threatening, but another says that is unlikely? Do you feel qualified to say whether another person should risk their life, and exactly how much risk they need to take? And what if their pregnancy is making them suicidal?  Is that good enough to meet your standards for if, when, and how women are allowed to take care of themselves?
Then you shouldn't ever oppose abortion, if that's the case. Pregnancy is dangerous, and it's up to the person carrying to determine if they are able to follow through with something as huge as pregnancy. You aren't the judge of that. If someone decides being pregnant is something they cannot physically handle, then that's their decision and I trust them.
Then you don't oppose abortion. The risk of death is always higher for women who continue the pregnancy. Any law that prevents women from accessing abortion when they want it will result in deaths.
While I agree that women should always have a choice I find that saying "Any law that prevents women from accessing abortion when they want it will result in deaths." is extreme because it is not the case not every woman who asks for abortion is in a life threatening situation, there is tones of reasons for abortion.
There is no way of knowing for sure which women will have a complicated birth, and by that point it's too late to abort. Laws that prevent women from getting the abortions they want early in pregnancy lead to deaths later on.
Complications at birth that result in death are far from a majority and yes I agree that there is no way of knowing if the rest of their pregnancy and the birth will happen smoothly but I do not think that should be the main reason for abortion, keep in mind I am not opposing the right for abortion here just the reason to vive for it.

Uh, calling pregnancy "discomfort" is absolutely downplaying it. Like, a lot. Not everyone experiences pregnancy like that (not even close), especially in the case of an unwanted pregnancy. What magic world do you anti choicers live in that pregnancy is on par with a fucking cold?
First of all, a woman isn't forcing a man to be a father. He made that choice when he had sex. Everyone knows that sex can lead to pregnancy and everyone knows that abortion is 100% the woman's decision. This is why the discussion about what to do if someone ends up pregnant should happen BEFORE having sex. Now, if a child is born, everything else is irrelevant. There is a living, breathing child with needs that have to be met. Those needs come before what is "fair" to either parent. A child has the right to be financially supported by BOTH parents.
I know I'm late, but this really bothered me. I really disagree with this. How is saying he made the choice to be a father when he decided to have  sex, any different from saying that a woman decided to be a mother when she has sex and now MUST have the baby. No they didn't decide to be parents! They had an unfortunate accident. Especially if they took all necessary precautions against pregnancy. Of course, I hold that only the pregnant woman has the right to end an unwanted pregnancy, regardless of the feelings of the father (or anyone else on the subject) on the subject. Women have physical stakes in a pregnancy and can potentially have social and financial stakes as well, if they decide to go through with it AND keep the baby. Men have the same potential social and financial stakes. We shouldn't downplay social and financial burdens of an unwanted child any less than the physical burdens of an unwanted pregnancy! Just like women have the right to a physical abortion (and of course social and financial opt-outs later if they birth the child and give it away), men should have the same social and financial opt-outs. Ideally, just like abortions should be carried out as soon as possible, after discovering an unwanted pregnancy, these social and financial opt-outs for men should also be available within a certain time frame at the beginning of the pregnancy. Then if the pregnant woman wants a child, she can go into the having the child, knowing fully well that she will have no social or financial support from the father. If she has no means to support the child and still chooses to bring that potential life into the world, that's entirely on her morally. Women aren't entitled to children any more than men are! And people should really only have children when they're ready on all fronts; physical, emotional and financial, and not bring any more misery into the world. If they, they're entirely responsible for that misery.
If society believed that children had the right to financial support, they would provide generous tax funded payments to support all low income families. Making a law that says a child who has a living but unwilling father has the right to child support from that father but a child with a dead father is simply out of luck isn't supporting children, it's punishing men for sex.
A child with a dead father ISN'T simply out of luck though. First there are social security death benefits. Plus, with one parent dead, the child qualifies for more in the way of social services because that parent's income is no longer counted against the child. And it has nothing to do with punishing the father. It's about NOT punishing the child.
I so agree with this!
The person carrying the pregnancy is obviously going to have a much bigger stake in things, and all of the decisions will have to fall on them. It's not really about being fair. It's about the reality of the situation: you aren't having irreparable, scary, and painful things done to your body if you get a woman pregnant.
You mean a ‘ financial abortion’ where the man can opt out of child support . I know some prochoicers are in favour and some are opposed .http://mobile.abc.net.au/news/2016-12-04/financial-abortion-men-opt-out-parenthood/8049576
It is fair to the child. Children are not cheap and do you want the mother to rely solely on the government for benefits? Or would you rather the child starve and be homeless? What if the father decides he does not want the child once she gives birth? That has happened to many women/girls. They get abandoned. Will the father pay all her medical bills while she is pregnant? Why not have a baby with a woman who loves the man and wants to be a mother?
Abortion is not about parenthood, it is about pregnancy.* People have a right to choose not to be pregnant.  People do not have a right to have other people be pregnant with their children. The father can abort as many of his own pregnancies as he wants. This financial risk is something that every man having sex should be aware of.  If they impregnate somebody, they are at risk of having financial obligations as a result.  However, they will never be required to carry a pregnancy to term, and they will never be obligated to undergo a surgical procedure that they do not want to undergo. *For most people, they do not want to be pregnant unless they want to parent.
All parents should be allowed to legally give up their parental rights and responsibilities, leaving the child solely in the care of the other parent. No one should be able to use another human being as their personal incubator.
My bottom line is this: if child support is supposed to help support a child, and a child exists in the world, that child is entitled to support.  Our system currently pegs that support to who contributed the DNA, so for better or worse, both parents will be required to provide support, unless care is relinquished to a different legal guardian. To me, this somewhat reduces the argument.  Child support isn't punitive in this sense- it doesn't matter whether the individuals in question wanted to keep the pregnancy or not, only whether or not there's a child in the world that needs caring for.  That's it.
Is it fair? No, of course it isn't. But, as they say, life ain't fair. If the mom wants the kid and the dad doesn't, and she has it anyway, then yeah, he has to pay child support or stick around unless she says otherwise. It sucks. But that's just part of doing business. Now, personally, I think it's unethical for the woman to have the child and ask the guy to support it given he expressed his unwillingness to do so in time for her to make a different decision. But I also think it's unethical for a child to not get what they need once they're born because the person who helped create them doesn't want to do it. If the dad wants the kid and the mom doesn't, and she has an abortion, that's just something he has to deal with. It's her body and her choice, and if he doesn't like her choice he doesn't have to stay. They can have a child a different time if they both want, or he can find someone else who wants a child with him.
Finding someone else to have a kid with doesn't solve the problem though. Let me throw out this scenario for you: Imagine you lived in a world where 60% of people believed it's okay to kill a child before they say their first word. This is crazy to you, but the law says it's okay. Not sure if you're male or female, but how would you feel if you were a father to a baby, and the mother decided to kill that baby? It's a horrible, horrible event, and you shouldn't be expected to just "deal with it." Edit: I just noticed your username, you're probably a lady person lol my bad
I'd really encourage pro-life guys to ask the women they are sleeping with if they are pro-life too then. And realize that once your genetic material is inside of her body, and once it's changing and damaging her body, that it isn't your decision what happens to the pregnancy after that point. It's not your pregnancy. You have the privilege of not having to  see your belly stretch out, ankles swelling, and shove something out of your genitals. She doesn't have that privilege.
If I were upset by abortion, then yes, it would probably be upsetting. And yes, I would have to deal with it. Because if I were a man, I would have no say in the matter. I see what you're saying, and it sucks that it affects some people that way. But they're going to need to learn how to get over it because the fact is it's not their body and not their decision.
First you say you don't want to get off topic and start down a "rabbit hole", then you not only dig your own rabbit hole you dive in head first by creating an impossible scenario with no basis in reality in order to illicit the answer you want to hear. That's not the way to have a productive discussion.
By "rabbit hole" I meant the whole "Women's rights!" -> "Human life!" -> "Cluster of cells!" bullshit arguing that we've all seen a million times and goes nowhere. The scenario I presented is still related to the original topic, just a way to try and give you a sense of our perspective.
Your "scenario" isn't even remotely related to the matter at hand. It is a completely made-up predicament that has no basis in reality. You're trying to force someone to give you the answer you want to hear and those of us that are pro-choice don't fall for things like that.

Does anyone have any speculation as to what this may mean for reproductive health? To me, it would seem that this segment of the bill passed in the senate should only apply to the specific tax purposes laid out within the section. Is this accurate, or should we truly start to be worried?
Agree with Sabuleon- in and of itself, it does nothing.  However, the goal is to accumulate enough instances in federal law of the concept of embryonic/fetal personhood that it must be taken into account by judges in future rulings on the issue.  A lawyer could basically argue- your honor, if a fetus has no personhood, why does the law say otherwise here, here, here, and here?  At a certain point, if we let it, the legal "evidence" used for such a case will no longer be in the minority.
Thanks for clarifying.
Laws in other areas can be used as precedents AFAIK, but I'm no lawyer so the process isn't clear to me. Safe to say more than just us were worried about this and several prochoice groups have called the GOP out for this (check the article). We should have been worried yesterday, basically. They won't stop doing this. There's also talk that it was "removed" from the bill before passage, but since that refers to those scribbles in the margins and entire sections being crossed out... who knows if it's been removed properly or not, when the whole process wasn't proper to begin with.

That really is very well done- emotional, short, effective, excellent tie-in with the bubble. It's sad that this issue seems somewhat "done"- rarely brought up any more, or push for repeal of existing laws.


No, this certainly isn't a troll question. Rather, I am currently taking a class about terrorism and I want to know what exactly your thoughts are on this issue.Indeed, how bad would the violence need to be before you would endorse the use of terrorism against such facilities and their providers?Also, Note: I am pro-choice but I am trying to find out if pro-choicers would engage in extreme anti-abortion tactics if individuals whom they considered to be persons were legally killed on a regular basis.
Honestly?  If there were something I felt passionately about, I think I might endorse the use of tactics that delayed carrying out said act, like damage to the facility, theft of supplies, etc..  I don't think I'd ever want to endorse violence or intimidation, though, knowing well that condoning violence puts me at risk for violence, too. Of course, trying to link this hypothetical to abortion is always gonna be a bit of a non-starter, because of the whole pregnancy thing.  You can bust into a facility with infants/older children, kidnap 'em, and take 'em to a safehouse.  Can't exactly do that with a 12-week fetus.  Because of that, no matter how much some people want to pretend it's the same, the comparison isn't going to work.
Thank you very much for your answer here! :) What about if you weren't risk-averse? Would you then be more open towards engaging in violence and/or intimidation? The problem is, though, that the safehouse in question is going to be raided by the authorities in such a scenario and the children will then be sent to get killed. It's like with stolen chickens or pigs or whatever (Note: I am not directly comparing human children to chickens or pigs); if you steal them and put them in a safehouse, I suspect that the authorities will eventually find them and then send them to the slaughterhouse. Agreed. Plus, there is also the sentience/personhood issue to consider.
I don't think I made myself clear- I didn't mean so much physical risk to myself personally, but rather, the idea that if I condoned someone using violence they felt justified for, I basically open up the floodgates for all sorts of self-justified violence, and that's not the sort of world I want to perpetuate. The kidnapping thing wasn't meant to be a solution to they hypothetical- only a demonstration of how it and the reality of abortion are dissimilar enough to make any comparison fall flat.
OK; understood. Indeed, I completely agree with your point here about the danger of establishing a precedent here--even if you feel that you are doing something extremely heroic that will save millions of innocent lives. After all, as you say, once that floodgate is open, the door to all sorts of atrocities is opened-up--whether justified or not! OK.
I see your game.
Actually, I have no game here.
Oh. Then the answer is no, I would bring a lawsuit forward.
And what if your lawsuit would fail?
Then allow it to continue while writing angry Op-Eds.
OK; understood.
No, I don’t agree with the way women are treated in some countries ( female genital mutilation etc) . I would never condone terrorism though . The way to make sustainable chance , rather than pushing the issue underground is to convince the perpetrators what they are doing is unacceptable. Terrorism would be counter productive.
This question has absolutely nothing to do with abortion. Most Pro-choice people don't see an embryo or a fetus as a living person so your point is moot.
Technically it’s living , but not a person until later stages in pregnancy at the minimum.
But you question deals with terrorism against people who kill people already born. We kind of already do that in war.Edit: I'm not at all suggesting our troops are "terrorists" however, I'm just using the language I your post.
If this hypothetical scenario did exist, I would do everything I can within the realms of legal reason to stop whatever activities are going on in these so-called facilities. And I would direct the proper authorities to try to solve the issue. Well, I don't think you need to ask this question at all. Just look at our current situation. Pro-Life terrorism is a huge threat to many pro-choice individuals such as myself. Just look at the statistics: Between 1973, when the Supreme Court decided abortion should be legal throughout the United States, and 2003, abortion providers have been the targets of more than 300 acts of extreme violence, including arson, bombings, murders and butyric acid attacks. The National Abortion Federation reports more than 176,000 instances of picketing at clinics (and nearly 34,000 arrests) since 1977. It has documented more than 16,000 reported cases of hate mail or harassing phone calls, over 1,500 acts of vandalism and 400 death threats. There have been more than 200 bombings and arson attacks at facilities that offer abortion services, the organization reports. There have been over 500 Anthrax attacks as well. Throughout the history of the abortion debate, Pro Choicers have been the victim of a campaign of violence and terrorism just for our basic beliefs and providing legal services. Despite that, I don't see Pro-Choicers retaliating and waging a bombing campaign against pro-life groups? If in reality we as pro-choices respect the law despite being victims of terrorism just for our basic beliefs, then I don't think Pro-Choicers would be engaging in violence based on the hypothetical situation you have presented. Instead what you should be looking at is: Why Pro-Lifers consistently engage in terrorism despite having very little biblical, scientific or valid objective support for their views. Why Pro-Lifers consistently target Planned Parenthood through false statements such as "PP sells baby parts" despite the fact that pp has been cleared by federal investigation regarding this issue! Good luck. Sources: http://users.nber.org/~jacobson/JacobsonRoyer6.2.10.pdf https://prochoice.org/education-and-advocacy/violence/violence-statistics-and-history/
This thought has crossed my mind in a different way. I regularly escort at an abortion clinic, and the protesters outside usually do chit-chat amongst themselves, smile, laugh, even offer us coffee (we never take it). And I'm thinking, if I were protesting a place I honestly thought murdered literal babies, that was literally an equivalent to Auschwitz, I sure wouldn't be telling jokes or being friendly to people who associated with it. This makes me doubt their sincerity quite a bit.
No. Anyone who killed a human infant, child, or adult who was invading their body would be doing so in self-defense, and I fully support their right to do so. Even if I didn't approve, terrorism is not the answer.

So I am new to this sub, and I just kind of want to know what to expect when I go to Planned Parenthood next week to get my birth control switched. By what to expect, I mean will there actually be people with signs out and shouting? I know what will happen once I get inside. I just want to know how to prepare myself if that is what will be at the entrance.
If you do see protesters just ignore them. Don't look at them, don't acknowledge they exist. That's exactly what they want. If you are assaulted report it to the police immediately.
Thank you. I wish people would realize that they do so much more than abortions. When I got pregnant with my daughter, and my insurance wouldn't cover it, I looked into getting prenatal health there. When people hear pro-choice they automatically think that we just jump to abortion as the only option. Pro-choice is about the right to choose.... I plan on writing about my experience next week after I go. I am going to the one in New Orleans. I need my birth control implant taken out because of the side effects, and no one in Mississippi wants to help me so yeah...
I'm about to have my Mirena removed soon and if my company insurance doesn't cover it I am totally going to PP to have it done. Good luck ❤️
People—we pro-lifers in particular—do realize that Planned Parenthood provides more than abortion. But at the same time, the pro-life opposition to Planned Parenthood stems almost entirely from that one service. In our eyes, no amount of birth control or STD testing or cancer screening will exonerate them of killing hundreds of fetuses every day. If Planned Parenthood were killing infants or toddlers, no one would be defending them by saying, "Think of all the good they do." It wouldn't matter. And pro-life advocates regard fetuses with the same concern. So I hope you can at least understand our perspective.
I actually really appreciate you explaining that, because it is something I keep in mind when volunteering: If I really, truly thought abortion was murder, wouldn't I do the same thing? I hope you'll also take the time to consider this perspective. Here's something I really, truly believe in that most people disagree with: being vegetarian. I don't eat meat. I think it is immoral to support the factory farming industry. I really, truly believe animals like pigs, cows, and chickens are conscious beings that deserve to live. However, I don't post up outside of the grocery store screaming at people trying to get their groceries that meat is murder and holding up photos of cows cut open, even though a good percentage of those people are going in to buy meat. I don't do that for several reasons: People should be able to do things they need to live, like buy food, without being harassed. I'm very unlikely to convince anybody to stop eating meat by screaming at them or blocking their ability to get food, so it's a waste of my time. I wouldn't just be screaming at meat eaters. Vegetarians and vegans also go to the grocery store, and probably don't want to get screamed at on their way to get food. I'd be impeding their ability to get non-meat food, and therefore working against myself. No matter how much I think something is wrong, it's not my right to make people feel unsafe living their daily lives. Some ways I have been effective at getting people to eat less meat: Cooking vegetarian food for my friends. Talking about my own vegetarianism when people ask and want to learn more. Advocating for people to have access to affordable, healthy food so they have the resources to make their own choices about what foods they eat. Protesting at the Planned Parenthood is only hurting people who need Planned Parenthood for medical care they have a right to get, whether that be birth control, cancer screenings, or abortion. If the goal is to prevent abortions, there are so many other great ways to help, like advocating for affordable and accessible birth control, supporting your friends who choose abstinence for themselves, or engaging in discussion at appropriate times.
This is all very reasonable. And I wasn't defending the practice. I honestly can't say how effective it is to protest in this way, and I myself have never done it. But you implied that people don't consider the other services Planned Parenthood provides. I was just clarifying that we do. In response to your first four points: Disagree Probably Probably Disagree I take issue with using vague phrases like "being harassed" or "feel unsafe" to make blanket moral statements. The morality of eating meat is probably off-topic, but I would still like to address your comparison. A shopper purchasing meat is a far cry from a mother obtaining an abortion. The shopper is complicit at worst while the mother is fully culpable, and that's only if we assume that killing animals and killing human fetuses are equally immoral (which apparently neither of us agrees with). My point being, if we continue with your analogy, wouldn't it make more sense to protest at the farm or the slaughterhouse instead of at a grocery store?
Well my point was that harassing people trying to go to a doctor’s office is neither morally right nor effective, but if you aren’t defending it then I guess we agree on that front. I didn’t think “being harassed” or “feel unsafe” was vague given the context of the conversation, but I could share my experience. As I’ve volunteered, I’ve worked with a Jewish woman who had protestors scream that she is worse than a Nazi and deserved to have been killed by them. I’ve worked with a black woman who had protestors scream that she was a racist for “killing black babies” and deserved to be killed because she’s a disgrace to her race. As a volunteer, I was told not to wear any identifying clothing such as school or work attire so that I am not identified, followed, and threatened. And that’s not to mention the events I’m sure you seen in the news of abortion providers being followed and threatened, as well as actual acts of violence on clinics. To go to the original point of this post, I think the OP should be able to go to get birth control at a doctor’s office without fear of harassment.
Fair enough. I also mistook you for the OP in my last post when I said you implied such and such, so sorry about that.
I've worked as a clinic escort in a few different states and the protesting really varies by area, time of day, time of the week, etc. Usually there are only protesters on weekends because people work during the week. If you call the clinic, they should tell you what to expect. If it's a PP location with protesters, they'll often have volunteer clinic escorts, usually in vests like this, to help walk you to your car. Planned Parenthood tries to have locations that have a private parking lot so you don't have to walk directly by the protesters, but depending on the location you may have to walk on a public sidewalk. I've seen some classic screaming-and-gory-photo-waving protesters, but I would say the majority have been just quietly praying or trying to seem normal because they've realize the hellfire strategy is no longer working. If there are protesters, ignore them, no matter how annoying they're being. They're looking for a reaction; nothing pisses them off more than pretending they don't exist. They'll often try to give you "literature"; you do not have to accept anything they try to hand you. Just pretend they're invisible and walk right by. They are not allowed to block your access to the clinic. If they do, notify the clinic or contact law enforcement.
Thank you.
I think it depends on your location's climate.  For example, mine in Modesto, CA didn't have any protesters the couple of times I came to try and get an IUD (and later, to give up and get the implant instead).  That said, it's not like it's non-controversial; we had an arson attempt and the location does provide abortion services.  And I've seen anti-abortion protesters in my city- once outside of the very nondescript, wouldn't-know-it-was-an-abortion-clinic-unless-told non-PP abortion clinic, and again in a high-traffic but unrelated area. I honestly think it depends on the size and tenacity of your local anti-abortion movement, and how many other clinics there are.  If you've got a strong anti-abortion movement and PP provides most or all of the abortions in the area, it's more likely to be protested.
It really depends on your location. I used to live in a southern state and idiots with signs were relatively common but mercifully easy to ignore because they legally had to stay a certain distance away from the building. Now I live in the Pacific Northwest and I haven't seen any yet, although the one local to me is in a location not visible from the street and thus anyone attempting to protest would be seen by all of three people on an average day. If the location you're going to does have problems with people protesting, then they might have volunteer escorts available to walk you to and from your car; call them before you go and check it out. Good luck!
Honestly, those who are standing outside the Planned Parenthoods don't give a bloody shit about babies. I've never been to Planned Parenthood, but if I were to be going there for an abortion (which you're not, you're going there for birth control) & one of them told me to think about the baby that I'm about to kill, I'm going to tell them something (a message posted on Tumblr): But just ignore them.
I like that response.
Thank you!
Are only people that invite and welcome homeless people into their home against homelessness?

Done!
Me too!
OP: I chose the "other" option for question number 6, but your survey will not allow it because you do not have a radio button to check beside it. Your survey is flawed.
Not sure why it won’t let you, it allowed others to check it... also, you haven’t explained why it is flawed. I was only allowed so many questions, and I had to ask the questions based on the opposite side of the argument from what I’m on. I am pro-choice, but my teacher has us asking from our opposite opinion.
It was flawed because I couldn't answer question 6 as I wanted to. Simple answer.
Alright well I’m sorry you couldn’t answer, but 15 other people were able to. No need to blame me for the flaw that is most likely a glitch in the app.
Honey, that was not blaming you. I was letting you know so that you could fix it if you needed to, so that your survey results would be better. Both of your responses to me have been very defensive. I'm trying to help you fix something, not berating you for it. I've helped you by taking your survey, and letting you know that I experienced a difficulty, so that you can account for that in your results. Because I was unable to use the "other" option, I chose 30 weeks, but that was not my actual response. There is no reason for your defensiveness...if anything, you should be grateful that a random internet stranger is trying his or her best to help you.
Alright well thank you for trying to help.
yeah. I could not answer question 6 either. Is this a legit survey? it soundss very forced birth and religious. Im gonna just report it instead
This is a legit survey. It’s for a class. I’m sorry that it sounds that way to you, but I already explained on this thread that I AM pro-choice and that I was INSTRUCTED to ask questions from the opposite side of the argument. I’m not in any way religious. There’s no need for you to report it, it just causes me issues because then I lose all of the research that I’m getting for a 10 page college paper which is 70% of my grade. It’s actually quite rude of you to report it when I haven’t done anything wrong, especially when I’ve already explained myself multiple times on this same thread.
Your survey is flawed and either except that or don't..but I see you choose to argue instead..
This survey is flawed and all over the place. What does the know % of women in Congress have to do with when the taker personally believes a fetus can feel pain? Is this the only board you are going to post this survey on?
I included it because the issue is being brought to congress, and if only 19% of women represent congress it is not a fair representation of women’s opinions on it. I never said it had anything to do with the ability for it to feel pain, that was a separate question and I’m not sure why you are putting them together. Yes this is the only board because I have other options for people who don’t agree with abortions. To be clear, I am pro-choice. I just have to ask it as though I am not because our teacher told us to ask questions based on the other side of the argument.
Good questions! Let us know how the paper turns out.
To be clear for those of you who for some reason are mad at my questions or say my survey is flawed, I AM pro-choice, but my teacher made us ask questions that people from the opposite view would ask, and/or were unbiased questions to add evidence to our claims. If they are sporadic questions to you, this is why. I was only allowed 8 questions and I had to fit my main points into each question.
Why did you choose these specific 8 questions? What are you trying to prove?
I am trying to get surprising statistics. My teacher wants us to get statistics on what people know/don’t know about the topic and stats on their reasons for how they feel. I’m also adding the one on Congress because I didn’t know Congress was only 19% women and I wanted to know how many people did, as if most people didn’t it could be a “surprising” statistic. I simply chose the first 8 that came to mind honestly and the ones that came up the most in my research about it. Thank you for asking kindly!
Okay, just wondering why they all seemed so unrelated. You do know however you are going to get very skewed results just posting it in this sub. If you truly want a fair representation then posting it to only one sub on Reddit that pretty much already agrees on something isn't going to yield you very credible results for your paper.
Yes I know, I also posted it on other apps though, like Facebook and Snapchat and others so that I get fair results, and those groups were mostly pro-life groups so they should balance out. But thanks for the feedback!
your survey is not going to work until you fix the broken "other" answers.
I have already explained that I am not using those questions in my essay. Besides that, it’s not my issue, it’s the app’s issue. It’s not possible for me to fix. I’ve tried to edit my survey and it shows no problem with the other box when I edit. Also many people have been able to use it so I’m not sure why some can’t, but I don’t need to hear the same thing over and over. I get that that question can’t be used now in my essay. I explained that already to someone. thank you.
Not being able to answer those questions prevented me from completing the survey at all, just letting you know.
Alright well thanks for letting me know but I’m closing the survey anyway because I have more than enough people who gave me their opinions.

An insightful article on late-term abortion, from a person that had one.

holy moly - let's talk about abortion - and maybe even laugh about it.
dude. so stoked about this. sharing it with my friends!
States with the greatest restrictions on abortion are the worst for women’s overall health, according to a new study from the Center for Reproductive Rights, Ibis Reproductive Health, Based on the study, the groups found a “consistently negative relationship between a state’s number of abortion restrictions and its performance on indicators of women’s health, children’s health, and social determinants of health.” The study's authors say lawmakers’ insistence that anti-abortion legislation is intended to protect women’s health is fundamentally flawed rhetoric. “With few exceptions, states that have passed multiple policies to restrict abortion have passed fewer evidence-based policies to support women’s and children’s well-being, compared to states with fewer restrictions on abortion,” the study read. “The negative relationship between the number of abortion restrictions and the number of policies that support women’s and children’s well-being was strong enough to be considered statistically significant.” After evaluating all 50 states and the District of Columbia, the groups compared each state’s performance on 76 different health indicators against the prevalence of anti-abortion legislation. The median number of abortion restrictions was 7. Only Vermont placed no restrictions on abortion. Kansas, Mississippi, and Oklahoma had all 14 restrictions identified by the groups. Another eight states – Arizona, Indiana, Louisiana, Missouri, Nebraska, North Carolina, North Dakota, South Carolina – had 13 abortion-related restrictions. According to the report, of the 24 states with 3 or less restrictive abortion laws in place, 94% performed above the median score for overall well-being. Of the 27 states with 7-14 abortion restrictions in place, only 3 states met the average score for women and children’s overall well-being. Extensive medical, epidemiological, psychological and sociological evidence proves that abortion is safe and effective for women. Research shows that current laws that restrict abortion actually directly adversely impact women's health.Here are some not so fun facts from the study:Abortion Restrictions led to an average increase in the poverty rate for women.Abortion Restrictions led to such a high increase in the maternal mortality rate, that states like Texas have the highest maternal mortality rate in the developed world.Abortion Restrictions led to a lower median of reproductive health.Abortion Restrictions led to an overall decline in mental well being for women, with women reporting an increase in depression and substance abuseAbortion Restrictions as a whole led to an overall decrease in the standard of living for women, as measured by the HDI-Plus index.Abortion Restrictions forced a good deal of woman to stay in contact with violent partners.Abortion Restrictions were found to not be a deterrent at all for women seeking an abortion.Abortion Restrictions led to a decrease in quality of life for women, citing a decrease in emotional well being, as well as the overall decrease in socioeconomic standards.Abortion Restrictions led to a significant decrease in positive child development.Abortion Restrictions did not discourage women from getting an abortion. The majority of woman that couldn't travel started seeking drugs such as Misoprostol, which has several damaging side effects, as well more dangerous methods such as taking herbs or inflicting abdominal trauma.Sources:https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2709326/https://www.reproductiverights.org/States-with-Most-Abortion-Restrictions-have-Fewest-Supportive-Policies-Women-Children%20https://ibisreproductivehealth.org/sites/default/files/files/publications/Evaluating%20Priorities%20August%202017.pdfhttps://www.guttmacher.org/gpr/2017/05/flouting-facts-state-abortion-restrictions-flying-face-sciencehttps://www.ansirh.org/research/abortion-restrictionshttps://www.apha.org/policies-and-advocacy/public-health-policy-statements/policy-database/2016/01/04/11/24/restricted-access-to-abortion-violates-human-rightsSo much for being "Pro Life"....
Seems like it's more about being anti-woman than being "pro-life".  They're actively trying to institute laws to restrict the rights of women, instead of promoting policies that reduce the abortion rate and are good for mothers and children.  They want to force women to have children they don't want, but they don't want to make sure the unwilling mothers and unwanted children are okay.
Exactly. Students for life, live action, life site news and all these other anti-groups are more than happy to use slogans such as #lovethemboth but the evidence shows their policies don't support that line of thinking at all.
I don't think that will surprise anyone here. I see my state is leading the pack in maternal mortality rates. I just love the way they keep passing more and more restrictive laws here using the excuse that "we are just looking out for the health and safety of women". Considering legal abortion is 14 times SAFER than pregnancy and childbirth, if they were concerned with what's best for women's health and safety, they'd make abortion mandatory. Not to mention the fact that we also lead the way in child poverty, child hunger and uninsured children. It's almost like they are more concerned with punishing women for having sex than they are with what's best for women and children.
Of course, it won't. But I have been browsing the Pro-Life subreddit recently and they have a stickied post about how abortion restrictions allegedly "work" and they seem to be pushing hard against abortion access. So I am just outlining the consequences of their line of thinking. The die-hard antichoicers will not listen to reason. But perhaps someone neutral who may not personally like abortion, will see this post and realize that damage the Anti Choice perspective holds.


Hello Everyone. Just wanted to provide the members of this sub with some evidence in case people bring up the whole notion that a Fetus feels pain between 8-20 weeks.One of the foremost experts on fetal development the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) said it considers the case to be closed as to whether a fetus can feel pain at the early stages in development. "The science shows that based on gestational age, the fetus is not capable of feeling pain until the third trimester," said Kate Connors, a spokesperson for ACOG. The third trimester begins at about 27 weeks of pregnancy. (https://www.livescience.com/54774-fetal-pain-anesthesia.html)This viewpoint is not only backed by major studies, but also by several distinguished medical clinics around the world. Let's explain how this works. A  fetus does not have the necessary developed and/or functioning structural integration of the nervous system to experience awareness or pain until the third trimester. The perception of pain requires an awareness of an unpleasant stimulus — receptors throughout the body must send a signal to the brain, where it can be processed as pain. An important stage of cortical development is the formation of the subplate zone, a prominent, transient layer of the human fetal cerebral wall which develops around 13 weeks and gradually disappears after 32–34 weeks. The subplate is thought to be the main synaptic or neuronal connection zone in the human fetal cortex where incoming fibers from the thalamus, the main sensory (and pain) relay center, and other regions of the cortex gather during the crucial phase of cortical target area selection. The arrival of thalamic fibers and formation of thalamocortical synapses in the newly formed cortex from 24 weeks onwards provides the minimum connection required for cortical processing of sensory events in the body. The completion of major pathways from the periphery to the cortex, at around 24 weeks, does not signal the end of cortical development- it signals the beginning of a further maturation process. As spinothalamic pathways complete their connections with the cortex, they increasingly stimulate the development of intracortical pathways, which is the next major phase of neuronal maturation. The cortex sends connections down to the brainstem and spinal cord while the motor centers of the brain have begun to form connections with the spinal cord and brainstem by 26–28 weeks. When the neuroanatomy of a fetal brain is observed, there is a lack of cortical connections, which (when functioning) allows the sensation of pain to be transmitted by sensory neurons, specifically nociceptors, ascending the spinal pathways to the thalamus before it relays to the cortex. The exact week a fetus feels pain is currently unknown, however, a fetus doesn’t feel pain or recoil in agitation at 12 weeks like the “Silent Scream” propagates, nor does it feel pain at 20 weeks as some lawmakers across the United States claim. Because of the connections between the thalamus and cortex have not formed until between 23-30 weeks gestational age, a fetus does not feel pain until the third trimester (27-40 weeks), which is beyond the 24-week deadline to obtain an abortion.Further References:http://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/201429https://www.rcog.org.uk/globalassets/documents/guidelines/rcogfetalawarenesswpr0610.pdfhttps://embryology.med.unsw.edu.au/embryology/index.php/Neural_System_Development#Spinal_Cord_Axeshttp://nba.uth.tmc.edu/neuroscience/m/s2/chapter07.htmlhttps://www.verywell.com/how-we-feel-pain-2564638http://www.factcheck.org/2015/05/does-a-fetus-feel-pain-at-20-weeks/️http://www.news-medical.net/health/What-does-the-Thalamus-do.aspx️http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1440624/️http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/self-awareness-with-a-simple-brain/http://www.lemauricien.com/article/abortion-fact-fiction-and-humanity️http://m.motherjones.com/politics/2013/06/science-house-abortion-ban-fetal-pain
Thanks so much for this!
No Problem. Just doing my part in the fight for reproductive rights.
So it feels less pain? Why should you cause it to endure any pain at all?
Actually, it doesn't feel any pain at all prior to 28 weeks. The systems that allow us to feel pain haven't developed at that point. I notice you mention you are a Catholic. The Bible tells us in Proverbs 12:22 that the "Lord detests lying lips". How do you feel about Pro-Lifers pushing legislation and other such ideas related to Fetal Pain that are clear lies?
Well "clear lies" is hard to say. Pro-lifers believe that the unborn are people, and most people are able to suffer. They often assume, possibly erroneously, that the unborn can feel pain, even though they have no conclusive proof of it (although I think that the risk of causing them any pain at all is a terrible crime). In actuality, it doesn't matter whether or not they can feel pain. All that really matters is whether or not the unborn are people, and some people have become overenthusiastic in their attempts to save the lives of the unborn.

Ugh I hate this. Women can achieve so many things because of abortion. It gives us the freedom do what we wish with our lives. Instead of being baby-making machines that are totally dependent on men.
Right? I mean, I'm a guy and that argument still makes zero sense.
This is a talking point in the anti-choice movement "Feminists for Life" based around the idea that woman only turn to abortion because they have been either emotionally or financially abandoned by their partners, family or society (particularly colleges). The ideas is that women 'deserve better' than to have either abortion or financial hardship as their only two options. While in this argument are some genuine points about un-friendly society is to mothers, these groups do not put any serious weight behind providing services to help women in pregnancy or new mothers in college, since there is very little serious appetite in the anti-choice movement to help mothers after the child is born, particularly using state funds. Much easier to just restrict abortion choice and then say they are doing it for women
Thing is, even if there were plenty of resources available to mothers, some women just don’t want to be a mom. And they have every right to take action to keep it that way.
Exactly.  I don't want to have children or to have to endure pregnancy, if I ever end up pregnant I will have an abortion.  Not everyone wants to be pregnant.
Same here . There is no way I will ever to experience pregnancy and childbirth.
Get tubal ligations then.
I have had a tubal ligation and there is a 1 in 400 chance for the tubes to grow back together. My insurance would not cover the test to see if I am fertile again, so the only way I would know is if I become pregnant. Also the tubal was very difficult to convince my doctor to let me have. I am incredibly lucky to have been able to have it done before I had any kids, after practically threatening suicide to my doctor.
Well your country needs universal health care and to let a woman make her own decisions about tying her tubes. Should be the first line of defense.
If only... I'm a childfree woman under 35 living in the South, doctors don't usually think we're capable of making that decision for ourself.  Also a cousin of mine had an ectopic pregnancy after her tubal ligation.  And tubals also have a failure rate for uterine pregnancies, so tubal ligations are not foolproof and there is always a chance that I could get pregnant and need an abortion or an ectopic pregnancy removed.
Nothing is foolproof. Even abortions have been known to end in a live baby. Either way, it would decrease the chances big time and should be the first line of defense imo.
Tell that to the doctors that refuse to sterilize childfree women under 35, especially the ones in more conservative, religious areas. And my point about ectopic pregnancies and accidental pregnancies after tubals was to say that there is still a chance that I could get pregnant and like the original comment said, I would get an abortion.
I’m still trying to figure out what is better for women than the offer to choose to not have a burden of finance, time, stress when you’re not ready for it.
We deserve peace of mind, financial security, sanity, happiness, freedom, worry free sex, and good health. Abortion provides literally all these things. Unwanted pregnancy destroys all of them.
I am pretty sure this from the "Rock for Life" another "secular" anti-choice group.
This message is primarily directed towards women who are being pressured to have an abortion- which is anti-choice in itself. Too many women are told that abortion is the "only/best/easiest option", and are not even given an opportunity to choose anything but abortion. So, without even going into the debate on abortion overall, this message about women "deserving better than abortion" is a message made out of compassion for the difficult "choice" that society offers women who may be struggling with a crisis pregnancy. For those who believe that pro-lifers are all talk and no action, I'd like to expose the invalidity of that claim. I can't speak for all pro-lifers, of course, but as the person being used for criticism in this thread's photo, I would direct you towards the organizations I work with and for- Women's Resource Center (I run baby item drives for them, and they have a free boutique for mothers who are considering abortion to consider life, and provide necessities for them), First Choice Pregnancy Center (they offer free tests and ultrasounds to any pregnant woman), Living Grace Homes (they are quite literally a home, and any women who want to choose life but are struggling to do so can live there, get help finding jobs, free maternity care, free baby items, and counseling if wanted, etc) and the organization I work with in the summer to travel the country with- at every tour stop in every state, we gather local crisis pregnancy resource center cards if it is possible, and share them with women who may want to choose life, but feel unable to do so, whether financially, emotionally, or physically. Not all women will choose life, and not all women will choose abortion, when faced with an unwanted pregnancy. But I want to be able to support women in either circumstance. So, basically, while I cannot speak for all pro-lifers, I will speak for myself and defend the message I am presenting in this photo. Women deserve better than abortion because often times women are not supported by their choice for life or told enough that they are stronger than their fears.
In regards to your first point, we actually have data on women who are allegedly "Coerced" into having an abortion. A 2005 study from the Guttmacher Institute found that less than 1 percent of women surveyed cited such pressure among their main reasons for having an abortion. A 2013 study from UCSF reached a similar conclusion and found that while women rarely cited partner coercion as a reason they sought an abortion, many did cite the desire to escape a bad relationship or domestic violence. You can view these two studies here: https://www.guttmacher.org/journals/psrh/2005/reasons-us-women-have-abortions-quantitative-and-qualitative-perspectives and here: https://www.ansirh.org/index.php Second let's talk about your second point about whether the Pro-Life movement allegedly "helps" women. States with the greatest restrictions on abortion are the worst for women’s overall health, according to a new study from the Center for Reproductive Rights, Ibis Reproductive Health and Princeton University. Based on the study, the groups found a “consistently negative relationship between a state’s number of abortion restrictions and its performance on indicators of women’s health, children’s health, and social determinants of health.” The study's authors say lawmakers’ insistence that anti-abortion legislation is intended to protect women’s health is fundamentally flawed rhetoric. “With few exceptions, states that have passed multiple policies to restrict abortion have passed fewer evidence-based policies to support women’s and children’s well-being, compared to states with fewer restrictions on abortion,” the study read. “The negative relationship between the number of abortion restrictions and the number of policies that support women’s and children’s well-being was strong enough to be considered statistically significant.” After evaluating all 50 states and the District of Columbia, the groups compared each state’s performance on 76 different health indicators against the prevalence of anti-abortion legislation. The median number of abortion restrictions was 7. Only Vermont placed no restrictions on abortion. Kansas, Mississippi, and Oklahoma had all 14 restrictions identified by the groups. Another eight states – Arizona, Indiana, Louisiana, Missouri, Nebraska, North Carolina, North Dakota, South Carolina – had 13 abortion-related restrictions. According to the report, of the 24 states with 3 or less restrictive abortion laws in place, 94% performed above the median score for overall well-being. Of the 27 states with 7-14 abortion restrictions in place, only 3 states met the average score for women and children’s overall well-being. Extensive medical, epidemiological, psychological and sociological evidence proves that abortion are safe and effective for women. Research shows that current laws that restrict abortion actually directly adversly impact women's helped. Here are some not so fun facts from the study: *Abortion Restrictions led to an average increase in the poverty rate for women. *Abortion Restrictions led to such a high increase in the maternal mortality rate, that states like Texas have the highest maternal mortality rate in the developed world. *Abortion Restrictions led to a lower median of reproductive health. *Abortion Restrictions led to an overall decline in mental well being for women, with women reporting an increase in depression and substance abuse *Abortion Restrictions as a whole led to an overall decrease in the standard of living for women, as measured by the HDI-Plus index. *Abortion Restrictions forced a good deal of woman to stay in contact with violent partners. *Abortion Restrictions were found to not be a deterrent at all for women seeking an abortion. *Abortion Restrictions led to a decrease in quality of life for women, citing a decrease in emotional well being, as well as the overall decrease in socioeconomic standards. *Abortion Restrictions led to a significant decrease in positive child development. *Abortion Restrictions did not discourage women from getting an abortion. The majority of woman that couldn't travel started seeking drugs such as Misoprostol, which has several damaging side effects, as well more dangerous methods such as taking herbs or inflicting abdominal trauma. Sources: https://www.princeton.edu/~jcurrie/publications/Restrictions_on_Abortion/Socioeconomic-consequences.pdf http://scholar.valpo.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cg/28474 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2709326/ http://princeton.edu/papers/51063/abortion-restrictions/287.pdf
What evidence do you have that “ too many women” are being pressurised into abortion? Reputable clinics ask women if they are feeling pressurised into making the wrong decision to abort.
Where I live I have only ever seen women being pressured into keeping the pregnancy, regardless of what the woman wants.  Abortion is the best and preferred option for a lot of women and they deserve to be able to make that choice for theirselves.  For women who want an abortion, it can offer them a lot.  Freedom, independence, economic stability, access to better education, etc.  I don't know why anti-choicers try to act like women are stupid and helpless, no matter what the misogynistic anti-choicers think, we are perfectly capable of making our own choices, that includes the choice to have an abortion.  Women are not victims that are led to abortion, women make the educated choice to have an abortion on their own.
Where do you get all this shitty information? There is more societal pressure on a woman not to have an abortion than to have one, at least in my country. Because it's full of fucked up people like yourself. And CPCs and the people that support them are pieces of shit.
This is true though? If females weren’t made to have kids then they wouldn’t be able to get pregnant. And if men weren’t made to have sex, then we wouldn’t have sperm.
Neither were “made” to get or do anything. Our species just evolved as one that, like many others, does not reproduce asexually and therefore has a way to reproduce between two sexes.
They're an incel, ignore them.  They legitimately do not see women as people.  Their comment history says so.
If males weren't made to get testicular cancer then they wouldn't be able to grow tumors in their balls. Guess we should ban treatment for it.
Ignore him.  The only reason he says this is because he doesn't see women as people, and not because he is anti-choice.  He is an incel and is bitter women won't have sex with him.  His comment history is filled with comments much worse than this.
My background is Catholic cis white male who’s 20 not in college.
Do you want to be convinced?
I want people to try their best to convince me
What's been the most convincing argument you've heard thus far, or the argument with which you are most sympathetic?  Also, for what it's worth, it's probably best to clarify whether we're talking about morality, legality as separated from personal feelings, or both.
To clarify I’m talking about both. Is it moral/(should be)legal. But! I’m more concerned with morality of abortion. The most compelling argument for pro choice is that the fetus isn’t equivalent to fully functioning human. And therefore doesn’t have the same rights as the female who is pregnant with the fetus. Therefore the female has control over what happens to the fetus. (This is a fetus who’s basic human abilities haven’t formed yet)  this is the argument I’ve heard that makes me most sympathetic to the choice I was mildly compelled by this, because it seems unfair that a fetus with few abilities can be held to the same natural rights of a fully formed human.     However! My position is still pro life because even if the fetus isn’t a fully formed human. It still has the potential to be a fully formed human, whose potential in the world is nearly unlimited. It’s that potential. That life that entitles a fetus to the right of survival. Btw prefer the term fetus tends to avoid the idea that it can become a living breathing human Btw 2   If the abortion threatens the life of the woman, then it’s ok to get it.
Probably helpful if you open the discussion. On Catholicism -- if you think that the Pope speaking ex cathedra is infallible, then we will not be able to convince you. If, on the other hand, like many Catholics, you are a little unorthodox... perhaps you think that contraception is acceptable, or masturbation, or homosexuality, or divorce... then maybe it isn't too important that you're Catholic when it comes to abortion either.
I am a Catholic who believes there is a ground where facts on both sides are muddled. The Catholic Churches teachings are largely misinterpreted, that’s where a lot of arguments over a “teachings” takes place.  For example, with homosexuality, the Church isn’t for the sexual actions included with it. But emotional love is free of criticism. Similar with pro life (in my opinion)    I realize this isn’t very fair to homosexuals, I need to do more research on what they can exactly do Also the Pope may be able to change certain teachings based on his infallibility A way you can convince me is by giving me facts I didn’t previously know about, or by telling me a perspective I haven’t heard of before
Yeah, no kidding. Most people who have had anal sex are heterosexual.  I feel that's important to point out. Not being you, it's difficult to know where to start.  Like I said, it would be helpful if you opened the discussion.
Yea this thread opening could’ve used a bit more structure. The homosexual actions, with anal, need to do more research on that :/
This sentence could also use a little bit more structure. The Church isn't "for" a great number of sexual actions, most of which occur most often in non-homosexual circumstances.  Masturbation, for example. But this isn't my "talk about problems with the Catholic Church" account.  This is my "talk about abortion" account.
True, it really sucks how the Church is so strict on a lot of stuff.  Appreciate your contributions though 💯
I see there being two main pro-choice arguments. One about the legality or morality of restricting abortion, the second about the morality of actual abortion. Firstly there is the right to bodily autonomy. This argument is basically that the woman, like all other persons, has (or should have) an ownership over her own body that supersedes any claim the State has to use her organs without consent. Or to put it another way, a woman must consent at all points in the pregnancy to let the fetus use her womb, and if at any point she withdraws that consent and wishes to remove the fetus the State cannot take over ownership of the woman's organs to protect the fetus. This may seem some what odd that we speak of a woman owning her internal organs, but if you think about it everyone else already has that right. The State does not force people to give blood, does not force people to donate organs. In fact if any liberal tried to introduce a bill into law that claimed the state has the right to take over your organs for the greater good there would be outrage. Notice this principle makes no claim to the personhood of the fetus. Ultimately it doesn't matter, since even if the fetus was to be considered a fully fledged person with all the rights that entails the State still wouldn't have the right to take ownership of a woman's organs to protect that life. This is why many conservatives and libertarians who may feel abortion is morally wrong do not believe in government restriction in this area and are also pro-choice. They believe restricting abortion is the State moving into an area it has no right to be in and that the idea of a government that can essentially violate your body for some principle of greater good is a government they don't want. A second argument, which deals with the morality of abortion itself, is that for most of the pregnancy the fetus is not a person. There is really no other way to define personhood other than as a manifestation of the human brain. Even if you believe in a soul or 'mind' distinct from the physical brain it is pretty clear that soul or 'mind' is in the brain. A simple thought experiment reveals this, imagine your brain or head was transplanted onto another persons body (something we are actually very close to being able to do medically) where would "you" be. Would "you" still be back in the original body from the neck down? Or would "you" be where ever your brain is, in or on the new body. The answer is of course obvious, "you" would be where ever your brain is. Remove your brain from a body, keep the body alive but destroy the brain, where are "you"? "You" are clearly dead. If doctors some how grew another brain in your old body from scratch that would be a completely different person. So it is pretty clear that the aspect of human life we value, that gives a human being value over other animals, their personhood, is a property of the higher functions of the human brain. Until that develops the "person" does not exist yet. So how can a fetus that has not yet developed a these higher brain functions (or even a brain) be considered a person? They cannot, they are as much a person as the brainless body left behind after your brain was removed and destroyed. The "person" that fetus may grow into does not yet exist, and has no rights in the same way that any theoretically person that does not exist yet has no rights. The medical community has not reached consensus exactly when a fetus develops these high brain functions that produce what we could call personhood, but it is pretty clear that an embryo or early term fetus doesn't. The vast majority of abortions take place at this point and to my mind are completely moral. No person is being destroyed since no person yet exists. It is no less moral to end that pregnancy and prevent that person from eventually coming into existence than it would have been to not have sex the night of the conception and also prevent that person from potentially coming into existence. People who don't exist yet have no rights since they don't exist yet.
Honestly, I would LOVE to see liberal politicians start introducing bills like this, but they should ONLY apply them to men. I live in a state that insists on passing one unconstitutional anti-choice law after another. Then they spend MILLIONS, that we don't have, defending laws that they knew would never hold up when they passed them. Maybe if we start applying the same logic towards men, voters would start realizing how ridiculous these politicians they keep voting for are.
Why would you only want the government to take organs from men?
I don't want the government telling anyone what they can do with their organs. But since they are all for telling women what they can do with their uteri, why not start introducing legislation that removes a MAN'S bodily autonomy and see how well that goes over.
So you are for bodily autonomy but only for women? Seems hypocritical (or more likely trolling).
Do you have a reading comprehension problem? I thinks it's pretty clear that I think EVERYONE should have bodily autonomy. However, politicians keep trying to limit a woman's right to make decisions for herself. We've tried using logic, science, compassion, common sense and countless other  ways to try and get it through to them that we don't need a bunch of old, white men controlling our uteri and none of that seems to be working. So, maybe it's time to start fighting fire with fire. The whole point is, no law that took away a MAN'S bodily autonomy would ever get anywhere because it's a completely ridiculous notion. The same goes for all of the anti-choice laws aimed at punishing women for having sex, they are just as ridiculous, yet they keep passing more restrictive laws every day.
This kind of reactionary thinking (even in jest) just perpetuates the "Pro-choice Man Hater" stereotype that I find irritating.
They believe in everyone's bodily autonomy, the statement is to make the point that we shouldn't be taking anyone's bodily autonomy away, including women.
It just comes off to me as angy feminazi which is not helpful or constructive.
Well women tend to get angry when they aren't treated as full human beings...
Well it isn't a valid  reason to be reactionary and make seemingly sexist statements. It really doesn't help the cause and just puts a bad light on the Pro-choice side.
Op and I obviously disagree. I think it would help show how it is wrong to give women less rights to their own bodies than men, maybe men will wake up to the injustice if the tables are turned, not that anything against their bodily autonomy would pass. And I also think women have every right to be pissed off about their rights being violated, even if people choose to call them feminazis for believing that women should be equal to men.

If OP is sincere he might try /r/ChangeMyView also, this is exactly the sort of discussion it's meant for.
Appreciate will check it out
What is there to understand? The woman's preference is to not be pregnant. It is physically impossible for the fetus to have a preference. There is no moral conflict.
Ok, do you think a fetus needs a preference?And the term fetus is an easy way to cop out of the life that can exist from it
I think that an action is wrong if and only if it violates someone's or something's preferences.
It’s hard for me not to wince when reading this.  Preference and violate are key words here. Could you please specify what you by those?
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Preference_utilitarianism
Preference utilitarianism Preference utilitarianism is a form of utilitarianism in contemporary philosophy. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source | ^Donate ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
Thank you
Hello. I ask you go check out the post about the EEG waves which summarizes my position. But I and many prominent scientists and research institutions believe that a fetus does not meet the criteria for what constitutes a human being till 28 to 36 weeks. Which is beyond when the majority of abortions occur. The brain, specifically the frontal lobe of the cerebral cortex, is the part of the body that differentiates us from other species. The brain enables our body, our mind, our personality and, many argue, our right to life. Thus, being able to identify when the brain develops in the human embryo should have a significant impact on the question of when human life begins. It is clear the science and biology show us that human life begins when the brain starts functioning—we can’t have higher brain function before the brain can operate. Organized brain activity is the critical functionality needed to determine humanness (referring to becoming a human being) because it is a quality that, in its fullness with all its implications for self-identity, personal narrative, and other mental constructs, is uniquely human. More information can be found on the links below: http://www.nytimes.com/1975/05/09/archives/fetal-brain-said-to-live-at-28-weeks-role-of-the-brain-studies.html http://articles.latimes.com/1990-03-19/local/me-476_1_brain-stem https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/4078859 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2671226
Hello u/Instaconfused, do you happen to be Atheist Academy from Instagram? I follow your page so I recognize your arguments.
Hello. Yes I am affiliated with Atheist Academy. But I am not the original formulator of our arguments. That would be @adventofreason who you can also follow on Instagram is the current CEO of the Academy.
What do you and do you not understand? The argument, for me, is this: "Women deserve the right to choose whether a fetus is allowed to live in our uteri." And like, that's it. That's what it comes down to.
I see that point but I can’t help but believe that a fetus is still a living thing and a child. Even if it’s at its beginning stages.   The qualifications of a living creature are important , especially when the creature is a human child with all the potential in the world. What makes you say a fetus isn’t alive or isn’t human?
I didn't say either of those things. A fetus is obviously alive and obviously human. But if it's in my uterus without permission, I have the right to get it out.
This is reaching the point of most misunderstanding on my part. Ok so if the fetus is alive and is human. Then what do you mean by “get it out” I feel like this is where most people misjudge each other ^
If the fetus is alive and human, and it is both, I have the right to abort it. Because it is still inside my body, using my body and my life. That's a right that other living humans don't have... Why should a fetus?
It has a right because you accepted the chance of its existence when consenting to sex
Oooooooooh, so I deserve punishment for daring to have sex? Huh. What a fucked up person you turned out to be. Anti choice is bad enough, but anti choice because women should be punished for sex is just awful. Consent to sex is not consent to pregnancy. And, like sex, consent to pregnancy may be revoked once the process has begun. When I have sex, I do accept a less than 1% chance of pregnancy. And I already have plans for an abortion should that happen. What I'm accepting when I have sex is that there is a less than 1% chance I may have to get an abortion. There is no chance I will have to endure an entire pregnancy or raise a baby.
No living or dead human has the right to use the body of another living or dead human. That's why people have to specify BEFORE they die if they want to be an organ donor, we can't take their organs after death unless they've consented to it. Why should fetuses get special rights that no other human has?
Defiantly makes sense, why should the fetus get those rights?    As I thought about this I began to wonder, what happens before the fetus is created?. . . Sex right? By saying yes to sex, and yes it’s not a direct yes, but a kind of chance you take. It is a gamble in a sense. Metaphor: You go to a Casino to have fun. It’s a risk, but you can get a lot of money. Do you know you might lose money? Do you accept that responsibility? Metaphor 2:  You and your soulmate decide to have a kid. It’s a risk, a lot of shit happens to kids and it’s a lot of stress. A lot could go wrong, it could go right also. Could be the best thing, could be something in the middle. Either way you both decide to have a kid and accept whatever responsibility that comes with that So I hope you get the message of those 2 metaphors. There’s a chance and you both take responsibility for it when having sex.  That’s the consent to use the body of another human.   And it seems like sex should just be fun and shit. But it’s a bit of a catch 22... I mean perhaps it wouldn’t be as fun without that danger.
YOU dont need to be convinced...it is my body and none of your business. I dont understand why you dont see that.
I appreciate your belief, but this is where I’m lost. When somebody says none of your business, that to me, seems like you are straying away from what my purpose is. My purpose is to help humans survive then thrive. Whether that means I’m going to try to find a cure for cancer or help some lady find some jewelry she dropped on the sidewalk. Anything in between that means we are going to survive and thrive I don’t want to hinder, I only want to help. There are many ways to help people of course. But by saying to somebody who only cares about the betterment of the world that you don’t want...questions? I’m confused. What don’t you want when you say mind your own business? Your body? Yes that’s defiantly obvious. And this is where a lot of my male thoughts come into play. If you get pregnant(presumably with consent) then there was a knowledge of what could happen.  And since you had consent to the sex, then you are complying to the chance of the natural process of being pregnant. The human inside of you is also 2 parts. Part you, part the other person.  Seems like the other person should have some sort of say so
Because the baby isn't your body. I don't see why you don't get that.
It's inside the body, using the body. I don't see why people don't get that?
Because it isn't your body.
It's using my body against my will.
Only no, your body is doing exactly what it is supposed to do when you have sex.
I’m assuming you would make exceptions for victims of rape and incest getting abortions? I think that’s where pro lifers tend to start to find some middle ground.
An obvious exception is when the pregnancy threatens the life of the woman then abortion is clear. Beyond that my bias comes into play immensely, as a person who’s never been assaulted, I can’t help but think that even in rape, the threat of ending life isn’t super awesome. This wouldn’t be a case of which is right, it would be if which is less worse.  Abortions should not be allowed even in rape cases.inward wincing as 99% of people here get upset  if a case can be made that the whole pregnancy would mentally damage the woman so much that her life would be very sufferable then perhaps. But that would depend of on the evidence of the case As for incest, I don’t know enough about the possibilities of life, I can’t answer this at the moment
The argument is literally: The baby is not alive (it is though, it's growing of it's own free will else IVF would be impossible) or not "Human" (it is though as we can quickly confirm it's DNA). Even if the baby IS alive (it is) that doesn't matter because it's inconvenient for the mother. This is the nature of evil "your life is inconvenient so die". That's really all it comes down to. At it's core the pro-choice movement relies on the idea that women are in no way responsible for their actions.
None of those are pro-choice positions.
[removed]
No they aren't. No one argues the fetus isn't human. Was that at a Roy Moore rally?
What a shocker, the MRA doesn't believe that women should have the same right to bodily autonomy as men.  Abortion is being responsible for an unwanted pregnancy.  Women shouldn't be punished for daring to enjoy sex.  Sex isn't something that is deserving of consequences.
[removed]
Early abortions are none of those things. Hell, a lot of abortions are brought on by two simple pills now. I believe that men should be allowed to give up parental rights before birth and avoid paying for child support, they should be able to have a financial abortion, though I do not believe they should be able to force a woman to have an abortion or remain pregnant, because it is the woman's body and she is the one that is pregnant.  Neither gender should be punished for having sex,  because it isn't an act that is worthy of consequences.  Babies shouldn't be used as a punishment.  Sex no longer has to be a reproductive act, people can use birth control and have an abortion if they need one now.  Childfree people like me no longer have to remain permanently celibate. The women choosing to abort because they don't want or can't take care of a child are being grown ass, responsible adults.  They know they have a problem and they are taking care of that problem.  You don't get to decide what is and what isn't responsible just because you feel the need to punish women for having sex. And yes we get to have abortions whether you want us to or not.  We don't have to abide by your beliefs just because you don't see women as people with rights to their own bodies.  You don't get to punish women for enjoying sex just as much as men have always enjoyed sex.


The most important thing that can happen for the pro-Choice movement right now is the victory of Doug Jones in Alabama.
They're getting pretty bold in how much they are revealing that they don't care at all about kids after they're born.
They don’t care about pre-teen girls getting raped, either. They figure once we bleed, we’re “breeders”.
Once again they show this has never been about protecting life, it is about a faith-based shaming of woman (and everyone else) who don't act inside their strict religious interpretation. They don't give a crap about the unborn, it is just an excuse to be outraged about women having sex.
Yeah, I'm an atheist. It has nothing to do with religion and everything to do with protecting children from abuse.
Supporting Roy Moore?
What crime has Roy Moore been convicted of? I know Al Franken has been caught molesting and sexually assaulting women but democrats love him, they've even written articles saying that it's OK. Not to mention liberal Hollywood which is a known cesspit of pedophilia and rape. How many more leftists must be outed as rapists before we acknowledge the problem? How many more Weinsteins?
I presume you mean recently, rather than the 6 counts of ethical violations Moore was found guilty of in 2016? Democrats are calling on Franken to resign. But thanks for the whataboutism, really makes it clear you are for protecting the 9 women independently accusing Moore of sexual assault.
Not one of those had anything to do with this, nor did they have anything to do of a sexual nature. Does being found guilty of a traffic ticket make me guilty when other accusations are levied against me? Again: Show me the convictions, or at the very least conclusive evidence like the Al Franken photo. Stop seeking to derail the conversation.
Like I said you only care about things Roy Moore is guilty of in 2017. You could have just said what crime has Roy Moore been proven guilty of in 2017. It would have help clarify what you were asking. It was confusing because of course Moore is guilty of many things prior to 2017. So your position is that if we don't have a photo of the person sexually assaulting someone it didn't happen?
No, you insist he's guilt of sex crimes. No evidence of this exists, he was found to be participating in bias, in no way is that related to this. The answer is of course no, and were you not blinded by your ideology you'd realize that. No, the presumption of innocence is an American ideal, but when we have video/imagery/audio of someone committing/admitting rape or sexual assault it's a bit of a different matter as for someone who's a politician\role-model you are held to a higher standard. Again: Roy moore has never been convicted of any crime of a sexual nature, nor any violent crime, nor any crime at all. He was found to be biased in his court, that is all.
Again testimony of 9 women to you isn't "evidence" Ok, what evidence is there that Bill Clinton committed rape. Because literally a few hours ago you accused him of being a rapist. You can't use the testimony of any of the woman who accused Clinton. I guess to you he is innocent. Right? Doesn't that make you guilty of slander and defamation? Or do you have to be an upstanding Republican (guilty of ethics violations) to get that privilege?
No democrats are engaging in faux outrage, much like Kevin Spacey getting away with rape so will Al Franken. He'll continue to be in office and he'll continue sexually assaulting women. Accusations != Guilt. The presumption of innocence is an American ideal. Interesting how no evidence has been presented and this kind of thing only rose up prior to an election it's almost like it's more fraud like what the DNC pulled in 2016. Oh wait, Bill Clinton was a rapist and Hillary Clinton defended a rapist and laughed about it - you guys loved them.
Good to know you are a moral relativist.
No, just told you how it is. There is zero evidence Roy Moore did anything wrong.
Zero evidence other than the 9 women independently accusing him of sexual assault you mean? Out of curiosity what evidence do you believe there is that Bill Clinton committed sexual assault if you don't accept as evidence the testimony of the victims?
Accusations are not evidence. It doesn't matter if it it's 1,10, or 10 million. Everyone is innocent until proven guilty. We have photos of Al Franken, and we know Bill Clinton had sex with those he employed and lied about it, Monica Lewinskys dress is evidence of that. He used his power as president to get women while in a married relationship, whether or not you think using your position as leader of the free world to make women fear you enough to have sex with your is rape is a different matter, the reality is he's an adulterer and his wife defended rapists in court and laughed.

I bet you are 65..old...bitter..and alone and you just want everyone to be miserable and sexless like you. die off already


Isn't this a slippery slope? What else can we put a "buffer zone" on? Unlike Canada that recently amended this law the US does have freedom of speech in the constitution so this technically is illegal (even though I know they have been implemented before it always seems wrong). I mean it's aweful the way some protesters have actually assaulted people walking in but if they are breaking the law then arrest them. If you are 100% sure about your choice to abort, then some screaming nut-jobs outside the clinic waving signs shouldn't change that. If you know it's the right decision just ignore them, they have to stay on the sidewalk which is technically public property.
But they aren't just exercising their first amendment rights. They are protesting in order to harass those entering the clinic and the first amendment doesn't cover that.
The first amendment doesn't cover actual assault (which definitely should be prosecuted) but if you want to yell "murderer" at people walking into a fur shop or into an Army recruitment station you are allowed to do so, but from the side walk. That's free speech, sometimes it's not what we want to hear but we are all entitled to voice our opinion in public.
It's street harassment, no different than men catcalling women in the streets. Additionally, it is sexist as hell, since it is only done to women. We know the tree by the fruit it bears

link to study
Thanks for the link.
Thanks for posting! I just pulled the link from the article in case ppl wanted to go straight to the graphics and data :)
That's a good idea. Thanks.
Hello, first I would like to say that I just found this subreddit and I am eager to see what people with a different viewpoint have to say on this issue!So I believe that abortion, morally speaking, is wrong. My main argument for this is that pregnancies occur because women happened to have been irresponsible and have gotten pregnant. Since avoiding getting pregnant is so easy, why not just avoid getting pregnant as apposed to discarding what is in the woman's uterus? It costs $0 to not have sex and around $5 for condoms. Being on the pill is also an option.As far as abortions for unwanted pregnancies go, I am completely against them. If you got pregnant, you were irresponsible and should bear the costs of being pregnant.In dubious cases like rape or broken condoms (Which according to Guttmacher institute account for 1.5% of abortions in America) I am torn for. While I consider that fetus living, I also recognize that this pregnancy was not the woman's responsibility in having at all. The conflict between the mother having nothing to do with getting pregnant and the value of that fetus make it hard for me to come to a clear conclusion. If I dearly had to pick whether or not abortions should be allowed in rape/defective condoms, most likely I would go with prohibiting abortions as life is still life, even if the mother was not responsible for it.More than anything, I want to see what pro-choice people have to say to my reasoning! Maybe I'll convince some people, maybe you'll convince me! Who knows?!
Avoiding getting pregnant is easy in theory, but birth control fails all the time. I personally feel like this argument only comes from people who have never actually had sex and experienced how avoiding pregnancy works. As a married, child-free woman, the argument to just "not have sex" is shit. Some women can't take the pill or use hormonal birth control. Some bodies reject the IUD. There is the rhythm method, but like I said, all forms can fail. I was able to get my tubes removed so after 6 years together my husband and I were finally able to stop using condoms, and I got my body back by getting off the pill. I have done as much as possible to avoid getting pregnant. Now, say that my fallopian tubes grow back by some freak medical occurrence, and I get pregnant. Is it still my fault? I honestly would like to know what you think on that point.
According to OP’s post history OP is 15 years old, so it’s entirely possible that they don’t have a firm understanding of pregnancy prevention in action.
Surely it wouldn’t be your fault if your Fallopian tubes were to grow back! However whether the baby should be able to be aborted is a different question IMO. Aborting the baby in a case like that comes down to what we consider life to be? What would you say to the argument that the baby still shouldn’t be aborted because it is human life?
I would say I don’t care if it is “a life” because the life of the actual breathing, feeling, thinking woman matter more than the potential life of a cluster of cells. Do you eat meat or kill bugs? Congrats, you’ve ended life.
But we aren't ending the woman's life in this situation. What exactly justifies killing the potential life of a cluster of cells?
You are ending her life as she knows it and derailing her life, possibly putting the life of a child in danger of dying from abuse or neglect.
No, it comes down to whether or not I want to be pregnant. I would say that it's my body and I've spent years getting the right mix of drugs to control my bipolar disorder and anxiety, and there is no way in hell I'm stopping those. They all cause birth defects, so to me "choose adoption" is pretty shitty, cause I'd made a fucked up baby. I would say that my life is more important than a group of cells which has the potential to become a child. I would say it's a shitty thing for me to make a baby that I know will have birth defects, just to give it to the system to raise. Is the quality of life of a potential child not worth consideration?
Human life is a very vague description. People put emphasis on a heart beat but a heart beat is controlled by the brain stem. People can be declared legally dead because there is nothing going on upstairs and still have a heart beat. I’d say remember Terry Schiavo in reference to An Atheist meets God but it was before your time. Basically, human life is a vague term. It is an emotional appeal.
So what's your plan to make men not have sex and be responsible for an unwanted fetus?
I am also interested in learning about this plan.
Men too should also be held responsible for getting women pregnant, the men should be fathers to the new children that they’ve had. Some pro-life conservatives argue that men should be forced to marry the women they get pregnant. There are some pros to this that make it a viable option. Single mothers tend to have children that are thousands of times more likely to be in prison than children raised by a mother and father. Reduces welfare use. Instead of a woman receiving federal aid in the form of welfare to support herself, she would have a husband to earn money to support their family. What would you say to that as a plan, forcing men to be a part of the family that they’re responsible for creating?
What if instead: we let women and men do whatever they want since it’s their life and their body, and all mind our own business and focus on any number of all of the much bigger issues facing human beings in the world today? There isn’t anything more productive (pun intended) we could be trying to solve? What about world hunger or something? I’m sure we could all find something better to be so staunchly argumentative over, and just perhaps make the world better instead of trying to control women and shame them for having sex. Sincerely: -humanity
Yikes. So when said marriage turns abusive or deeply dysfunctional, which is also bad for children, what then? What about married couples that still can’t afford children?
So now we're not only forcing women to become human incubators against their will, but we are going to force them into marriage as well? This really isn't a good way to try and win your argument. No, they aren't. You pulled this one right out of your ass. What makes you think this would actually reduce the amount of public assistance? As it is, if a woman receives public assistance for a child, the government will go after the father for reimbursement and child support. Passing those laws did nothing to reduce the need for public assistance for children and families. Why do you think forced marriage would be any different? I would say that is the second most idiotic thing I've read on this thread, right after forcing women to gestate and give birth to a child they don't want.
If you waited for a second you would see some actual points to this. Chill lmao First, here are the statistics proving what I said. \ Instead of saying I pulled it out of my ass, at least just ask for my sources. Based on this, a woman raising a single child is not a good option for both the child and the state, as the child will cost the state money when they commit crime and the mother will use welfare money (As the source states, 90% of welfare recipients are single mothers) But then again, the woman had measures she could have taken to prevent the pregnancy, and the father also had measures he could have taken before getting the woman pregnant. This pregnancy is a result of irresponsibility, after all. To simply kill the fetus because it is inconvenient for the people that had sex, IMO, I don't think is justified. However, this also depends on what you find to be life or not, and that killing this "bundle of cells" is morally right or wrong depending on what you view those bundle of cells as. Unless of course we're talking about cases like rape and defective birth control
Half of women getting abortions were using birth control so I think you underestimate the failure rate.
Nowhere in your source does it claim that "Single mothers tend to have children that are thousands of times more likely to be in prison than children raised by a mother and father." There is a higher likelihood, but it's not even hundreds of times more likely, much less thousands, hence, you pulled that out of your ass. The rest of it is irrelevant because forced marriage is just as idiotic as forced gestation. All of the "statistics" in the world won't change that.
Thousands of times more likely? lol
Lmao true I exaggerated. But here are the actual statistics proving what I'm saying!
That is a faith based site that doesn’t deal with “crisis” prevention... your stats are coming from pro-lifers who do not see abortion as an option, and want to make abortion seem worse than it is.
The information is compiled from a faith based organization, however the actual sources for each particular statistic are mention in the PDF I linked.
That doesn’t mean much to me. I had a Voice for life group give me “real sources” and it said anyone to receive an abortion is homicidal.
You’re free to check the particular sources that are mentioned in the file I gave you and come to the conclusion about whether or not they’re authentic.
I already did, that’s how I knew it was a faith based site.
I’m not referring the the main source. Next to the statistics are more specific, non-faith based sources, that the faith based site is citing.
What the fuck? Make men marry the women they get pregnant? So you would not only force the woman to continue a pregnancy but legally tie them in marriage? You are young so probably do not have a solid grasp of the outside world. Seriously. You are suggesting tying someone legally and finacially together. Imagine if a woman chose to sleep with a deadbeat guy. She may be graduating nursing school in a year but suddenly she is forced to be married to some guy because she got pregnant. After she graduates and finally has enough money to file for divorce, he petitions for limited spousal support and wants 50/50 custody so he won’t have to pay child support. She ends up having to support him for five years since he had no job before so he can get back on his feet since she now makes 60,000.
You really don't want to know what pro-choice people think of your "reasoning". You are against abortion because you think women should be punished for having sex. The reason I know this is because you didn't even bother mentioning the MAN'S responsibility in all of this.
I am not against abortion so that women are punished for having sex! I am against abortion because I feel that it is morally, socially, and to some extent economically harmful. And you're right, I didn't mentioned the man's responsibility in this and I should have! I feel that the man should have just as much a part in raising that child as the woman has once she is out of the womb! It takes two to have a baby, and no more of this responsibility goes to the woman for her bearing the pregnancy.
Yeah except your post specifically says that women should be punished for their choices: “If you got pregnant you were irresponsible and should bear the costs of being pregnant” Sorry but that sounds like you think we should be punished for having sex. I’d love to see this in action if a man had a permanent and expensive life change every time he felt like having sex. This all rests entirely on each individual woman’s shoulders, and I don’t think it’s even remotely appropriate to shame women like that personally.
Bearing responsibility isn't a punishment! It's taking responsibility for what you have done! I'm not saying we should punish women for having sex, I'm saying women should bear the responsibility of pregnancy! You can have sex and not get pregnant. You're right! It does all weigh on the woman's shoulders, not the man's. Men too should play an equal part in this for getting the woman pregnant: it takes two to get a woman pregnant.
There is no difference between these 2 statements. You are saying that a woman should have to have a child she doesn't want, that is a punishment for having sex. I believe all babies should come into this world wanted by parents that can't wait to meet them, not as a punishment for doing something that is a basic human need.
Bearing responsibility isn't punishment, it's bearing responsibility(imo lol) I also believe that babies, IMO, shouldn't be killed for the convenience of the parents.
Killing babies is called homicide, or infanticide. That’s a whole other discussion, stick to one topic. Abortion, which is not killing a baby...
I certainly regard that fetus as human life and that abortion as the ending of such. Do you consider the fetus a human life? An explanation would be appreciated!
No, I do not consider the fetus to be a human life. Fetus’ can’t survive out of the womb until around 22 weeks, even then it’s not always a healthy baby, or able to survive. Until you birth out a breathing, living being, its nothing but a sack of cells that can’t live. Being birthed, being born, is what turns something into a life. When I plant a flower seed, it isn’t anything all that alive until it pops out of the ground looking much different than it did going on. I also posted a comment in here about body autonomy which is something my pro-choice self definitely believes in. It makes sense. It’s fair.
I don’t think whether or not the fetus can survive outside of the mom is a fair criteria. If the fetus cannot survive outside of a mother, it doesn’t make it any less human or living, just less developed. It’s a sack of cells that would die if you take it out of the womb. Its dependency on the mother to live doesn’t make it any less human nor living. About bodily autonomy, I read your comment about it. You’re saying that if a fetus is dependent on a mother to live, the mother has a right to abort it if it cannot live outside the womb (which is after 25 weeks) But wouldn’t the fetus also have the right to a mother? Even if that fetus is undeveloped, it’s living and it’s human, no?

Yeah but the world isn’t a perfect place where men will help. Even when men help financially it’s not enough. Parenthood is a lot of work and no one should be forced into it regardless of whether or not they choose to have sex. It’s something that affects women disproportionately and I think men like to fixate on it, which makes no sense to me. If you don’t know what it’s like to be a pregnant woman and or a parent you have no clue what you’re talking about.
It isn't that they chose to have sex, but that they chose to cause a pregnancy. Having sex is the part anyone could care less about, but the potential aftermath of that is what's important here. Furthermore, that's why it's better to try one's best to prevent pregnancy. One could argue that abortions should be allowed in cases where proper contraceptives were used, but then you'd have to get into the details of whether or not you consider that unborn child life or not to justify the abortions as killing a human isn't ever justified.
Well then I suppose it’s good thing that an embryo isn’t considered to be a human being. It’s a ball of cells that women pass naturally all the time, but we don’t consider that to be murder, otherwise every woman on earth would be a murderer every time a fertilized egg doesn’t attach to the uterine wall and instead passes through her. It seems that the entire basis of your argument here is that an early pregnancy is a person, which just isn’t the case. So if the law was changed that an embryo had personhood every woman who has ever had a miscarriage or had a fertilized egg pass through her instead of attaching to the uterine wall we would have to arrest every woman on earth. An early pregnancy is not a human life yet. Your argument is based off of a misconception about the female body. I strongly encourage you to learn more about women’s anatomy and reproduction.
An embryo isn't a human cell, it's a gamete. Also, when does the pregnancy turn into a person, and why?
On the medical community there is much disagreement about this, and many err on the side of considering certain fetal developments. That being said, legally speaking, a fetus doesn’t have the right to personhood until birth. While there is a human woman with a fully developed body in front of you it would be silly to value a fetus with the same regard, especially when it comes to a woman’s body. A woman has autonomy over her body. I understand what your saying about “potential for life” but if we held everything to this standard we would also have to force people to donate blood and organs against their will because of the “potential” to save an actual living human beings life. Are you in favor of the government forcing you to donate your organs to someone else? Probably not, because it would violate your bodily autonomy. It is your right as a person to choose whether or not you donate a kidney, regardless of any human life it could save. Women have the same bodily autonomy. I am in charge of my body, and will not carry out a pregnancy I don’t want to carry out because I don’t want my body to be used that way. It’s the same thing. You can’t hold a fetus to a higher standard than the already sick people who need kidneys and blood transfusions, those people are already living and we don’t force other people to donate organs to save them, so why would we force a woman to use her body to support a life that isn’t even here yet?
I wouldn't say that we should force the woman to support the life, rather she shouldn't kill the life that is inside her. It isn't parallel to what you're saying about forced donation of organs because in that example, we aren't taking action to kill the person who needs the organ, rather it's the lack thereof. if you consider that fetus human life, then wouldn't it be considered unethical to end it? Do you consider it human life?

How is abortion economically harmful? Abortion has allowed women to join the workforce in droves, extend their educations, and plan affordable families. Abortion is an economic benefit to women.
Not to mention, one of the biggest reasons women get an abortion is because they cannot afford to raise a child at that time. Many of these women would have to rely on public assistance to make ends meet if they decided not to terminate the pregnancies. I don't have any idea how banning translates into an economically sound decision.
I agree. If you look at states like Texas that have enacted restrictive abortion laws you can see that the use of public assistance and child poverty all went up.
Can I see the statistics that show this? I'm eager to see this!
Google anything about the Texas child poverty and maternal mortality rates. It was all over the news pretty recently.
See here and here.
The statistics you provided were useful, but the first article doesn't mention how maternal mortality is linked to a lack of access to abortions. The second article also doesn't mention anything related to restrictive abortion laws in the case of child poverty.
What you’re failing to understand is actually really simple, abortions are way safer statistically than carrying out a pregnancy and birthing a child. It makes sense that maternal mortality would increase with an increased number of pregnancies due to lack of women’s health care.  Pregnancy is actually a much more dangerous thing statistically than abortion.
Banning abortions means the state can spend their money not funding abortions and funding something else. Banning abortions also means that women will be, IMO, more conscious of getting pregnant and more likely to prevent pregnancies from occurring. This means both the state and the woman are saving money by making a law that would discourage women from getting unwanted pregnancies.
Tax dollars don't fund abortion.
Yeah, I’m what universe are abortions tax funded? That’s pretty funny. They are absolutely not funded with any state or federal money what-so-ever. Op is failing to realize that more births result in more moms needing state assistance. It would cost states so much more money to ban abortions as a lot of women have them because they can’t afford children.
That's not how reality works though. Banning abortions will mean more illegal back-alley abortions where women die.
If abortion is banned, women will be more conscious of using birth control to prevent pregnancies and the number of abortions will go down. This is assuming that women will be more conscious of preventing pregnancy knowing that abortion is banned. Banning abortions then would mean states would not have to fund abortion services and would allow the state to spend that money on other things. Do you think I'm justified in my assumption? Or that something else might occur instead? If so, why?
If you think states are spending tons of money on abortion services then you are misinformed. Tax money has been banned from being spent on abortion services since the 70s due to the Hyde Amendment. Most countries that have abortion bans actually have higher rates of abortion and obviously much higher rates of women dying due to unsafe terminations. Also, how will you make men not have sex and ensure they use protection without being able to issue a punishment fetus?
Omg I feel stupid now thanks for correcting me first and foremost I would love to see statistics showing this, but from the get-go my first reaction would be to expect the complete opposite! If abortions are banned, wouldn't women be more conscious of getting pregnant? First, I like the phrase issue a punishment fetus, it has a ring to it I like idek why. And to answer your question, I really don't know. After running this argument for this long, I see myself getting stuck in a corner where I end up saying I'm pro-choice. I just want to see where this goes at this point.
You know what, I think it is great you are being open minded. I am busy with holiday stuff but if you want to look into further information on abortion I recommend looking at the situations in Ireland and Poland. I also recommend the “global turnaway study” on women denied abortions and the outcomes in their lives and the lives of their children. I also recommend looking into the Helms Amendment and Global Gag Rule which bans any foreign aid or anyone that works with US foreign aid to provide or mention abortions. If you would like to message me after the holiday I can provide you with some further resources.
I appreciate your response! I feel some negative vibes from a lot of people here as if they're responding in a condescending way and reading your response is a breath of fresh air! But upon further thinking, I think the debate is going to boil down to whether or not you consider that fetus life. Literally any other argument will be in the pro-choice side's favor unless you get religiously conservative (which isn't necessarily a bad thing!)
I'm not being an asshole, I'm being honest. As a woman, it pisses me off when people imply that women should be "punished" because they enjoy sex and that is exactly what you are doing. As a mother, it pisses me off that you think unwanted children should be brought into the world simply to punish women for having sex. Why would you want a child to live a life where they are resented?
Having a child isn't necessarily a punishment IMO. I don't think it is even a punishment, rather it's taking up responsibility. This isn't punishment for women having sex, it is women having a child from the pregnancy that they were a part of creating, thus bearing responsibility I do, however, really agree with this: But, I'd have to say that I still consider that child life and that it shouldn't be discarded for the sake of the mother's (or parents') convenience.
You have to try to understand that not every woman considers a child a blessing or a gift. An unwanted child is often just unwanted.
kids suck..I have never wanted kids..good thing I am pro choice, huh?
If the idea is that a birth control failure or a single mistake obligates you to continue a pregnancy against your will, then you're in essence saying no more non-procreative sex- all sex might mean you're a mother or father, which means that all sex might drastically change your life even if changes in your life aren't in your plan. I'm just not down with that.  And it's understandable that you're going to struggle a lot more with abortion if you believe in fetal personhood (I personally don't), but at the end of the day, that's what this comes down to.
Well, this particular single mistake isn't a small mistake: it's pregnancy. There's birth control to prevent pregnancy! Also, why do don't you believe in fetal person-hood?
The small mistake in question is misusing or not using birth control for an act of sex, for example, although you're quite right- if it does result in pregnancy, that turns it into a small mistake with a big consequence. Yes, there's birth control to prevent pregnancy, but you emphatically made the point originally that you don't believe contraceptive failure is a good enough reason for someone to get an abortion.  By that logic, because no contraceptive is 100% effective, any act of sex might mean you become a mother or a father. I don't know if this a typo or if you misunderstood me, but I don't believe in fetal personhood.
Well, yes sadly. If the fetus is considered life, then there's no reason to kill it (unless it's to save another life) Whether or not you think abortions are acceptable really boils down to whether or not you consider it authentic human life that you cannot kill. Do you consider it such or not? If so, why?
Are you saying abortions happen for no reason? Why do you think someone would abort?
No, I personally don't believe in fetal personhood.  To a certain extent, it's somewhat of a belief, in the same way that someone could logically lay out all the reasons why they think God exists, and I could even agree it made sense, but still wouldn't actually believe.  For sure, the lack of certain characteristics- consciousness, cognition, self-awareness, emotions, thoughts, and pain- definitely play a part.  But in the end, I really do feel like it is that sort of innate belief, which is why I don't begrudge others feeling differently on the issue of embryonic or fetal personhood.  My personal approach is an "agree to disagree" stance when it comes to that particular point.
That's fair, innate belief would prevent you from believing such. But I thought about it some more and I think using super basic terms, that fetus could be considered human life: it's human and it's living. I'm no biologist but that's my stance on it.
It depends on whether we're using the term "life" literally or more colloquially, since it has different connotations.  If literally, then definitely.  The problem is when people want to imply the connotation of "human life" but defend the language choice using the literal definition (but wouldn't, say, apply it to other cells in the body). It's why I prefer "personhood"- that term speaks directly to what we're talking about, whether or not a fetus constitutes "a person" and how we think a person ought be treated.  Anything else tends to get waaaay bogged down in deep debates about biology.
Wouldn’t it be best to use a more literal term for this since it is a scientific issue as well. If it’s human and living, what would justify killing it? Whether or not this entity attains personhood is secondary as to whether or not it is human life.
For me, personally, merely belonging to the category "human" (as opposed to, say, "bovine" or "porcine", for example) and performing certain functions doesn't impose requirements to sustain those functions.  Like, I have no issue when human heart cells in a petri dish die, despite the fact that they are both human and alive.  I imagine most people would agree, which suggests that what is at play is less about taxonomy and more about the meaning we assign to "life"- a.k.a. personhood.
Good point! That’s very true! However, in this case, we’re killing the all cells of an entire organism (which belongs to our species) Do you think that should be factored into any way, or if it even makes a difference?

Why exactly? You haven't actually made a moral argument supporting this position, you have just said in a some what circular fashion that the woman shouldn't have an abortion because she was irresponsible to have gotten herself into a position of being pregnant and in need of an abortion. By asserting that this was an act of irresponsibility you are already making a moral judgement. The argument assumes abortion is wrong from the start, otherwise there would be no issue with getting pregnant and needing an abortion. So it can't be a moral argument for why abortion is wrong. Or to put it another way, assume from the start that abortion is not immoral. A woman gets pregnant, and since in this hypothetical abortion isn't immoral it is not irresponsible of her to seek an abortion, it is in fact the responsible thing to do. She could have, maybe, avoided the abortion through some other method of birth control. But since abortion isn't immoral, that doesn't matter, there is no judgement on her for not doing that. See the flaw? Your argument for why abortion is immoral only works if you start off assuming abortion is immoral. If you don't then none of the woman's actions are "irresponsible".
I see your point, I did assume that an abortion is wrong. I think a better way to phrase what I meant is that abortion is preventable. I think if someone is able to prevent needing an abortion in the first place, one should! Abortion, IMO, is not something that should be as relied on as a means of getting rid of the pregnancy in the first place if there are other easier preventative measures. Women shouldn’t want to have sex with the notion of getting an abortion in mind. As far as serious moral arguments go, I would say that the fetus is considered human life and that it would be unethical in simply getting rid of it. However, I still hold true to the fact that if it’s preventable it shouldn’t be happening at all. Economically speaking one could argue against abortion as it costs money to fund these clinics and to prevent pregnancies from occurring in the first place is a cheaper, more efficient alternative.
Then you should never, ever have an abortion. However, not everyone feels that way and it is not YOUR place, or anyone else's, to decide what is right for someone else.
Well, that's why I'm here. I'm trying to see how other people feel and why.
Abortion being preventable relies on having access to birth control which a lot of conservatives are against. How can a company opt out of covering birth control like its any other prescription drug and also be against abortions and not taking steps to help prevent unwanted pregnancies? Pro life should fight for birth control access and coverage for women if they truly care about the well being of children. That would help prevent unwanted pregnancies, not revoking birth control coverage and simply saying don’t have sex.
Isn't birth control really accessible? I mean, I see condoms in every convenience store I go to. Is birth control extremely inaccessible in some parts of the U.S?
Condoms are not the best form of birth control and the best forms of birth control like IUDs and the Nexplanon arm implant can be harder to access and very expensive. There may not be a provider in your area AND if you're under 18 you may need parental permission. Would you support free birth control for all, easily accessible everywhere?
I guess it would depend. A part of me feels like to some extent, the government would be paying for people to be able to have sex outside of marriage, which IMO I just don't find appealing. I guess I'd be extra conservative on this, but I just feel that sex outside of marriage isn't a good thing and that the promotion of birth control, especially abortion, would just encourage women to have sex with anyone without having to worry about the consequences as they know that the pregnancy is preventable. That's my opinion I guess, I just find the idea of women consistently having extramarital sex and being encouraged by institutions to do so by making it easier to be a bit unsettling.
You can hold to that, but there isn't much to debate here since you aren't making a moral argument against abortion, rather simply stating that if abortion is wrong you shouldn't do it. The closest you got was the idea that abortion is wrong because the fetus is a human. I assume within that is the moral idea that you should not kill humans. I would take a more nuanced view to that. I would maintain that it is not being human that gives a person value, but rather then personhood produced by the human brain. For example we consider bodies that no longer have functioning brains but are still technically alive and very much still human, to have lost the property that makes them valuable, we consider the "person" to be gone/dead. A fetus until is developers a brain capable of higher brain functions is not a 'person', it is a clump of human cells with no more inherent value than your hand or foot.
What would be the value of a person whose brain isn't functioning and is being kept alive by some sort of external force, such as a ventilator that keeps the person breathing? The brain of such a person wouldn't be capable of higher brain functions, so wouldn't they too have the same inherent value as my foot?
"They" would be considered dead (most countries consider a brain dead person to be dead). Their body would have the same value as a dead body, treated with dignity and respect but not considered to have personhood or the rights of a person. Even though from a biological point of view the body is still alive.
In the U.S, the legality of that is a bit different. According to the Unborn Victims Of Violence Act (Page 2, Chapter 90A), the killing of an unborn child is the same as the killing of a human being. So legally, ignoring the morality of it, abortion could be considered murder with the Unborn Victims of Violence Act being perfect evidence, no?
No, since if that was the interpretation of UVVA it would make it unconstitutional (though certainly trying to leverage a tragedy to sneak in personhood to the foetus was the goal of the Republicans who introduced that law). I am not a legal expert but my understanding of UVVA and other laws like them is that the only way they stays the right side of Roe v Wade is that instead of defining a embryo as a person they rather state the obvious that it is a human entity and expanding laws against violent acts to include such "entities", using similar laws such as inherientence laws that also take into account the fetus without defining it as a legal person. As the Pennsylvania's Supreme Court ruled about a similar law "[it] does not purport to define the concept of personhood or establish when life as a human being begins and ends, rather, it imposes criminal liability for the destruction of a human embryo or fetus that is biologically alive"
I am on birth control pills and still got pregnant. I’m having an abortion, and I don’t feel that I deserve to be punished for being “irresponsible.” I met a woman once who conceived with her husband, and he died. She already had 3 children and couldn’t afford a 4th and wasn’t ready to go through a pregnancy while grieving the loss of her husband. She couldn’t afford to take care of 4 children without her husband, and she was blindsided by his death. I don’t feel that an accidental pregnancy is always due to “being irresponsible” as sometimes the father doesn’t want to be involved and being a single parent isn’t viable for a lot of people. There are also people who make a small mistake and don’t want to compromise their career or college due to an accidental pregnancy. I think birth control options fail more than we think they do, and even if some people prefer not to use birth control that they shouldn’t have to bear the burden of pregnancy and parenthood if they don’t want to. At the beginning of a pregnancy we’re talking about a ball of cells, I think a lot of pro choice arguments run under the assumption that from the moment of conception a pregnancy is a person, and that is just not the case at all scientifically. I have a child and I’m not ready for another one, and I don’t feel that a ball of cells is more important than my bodily autonomy and right to choose. Also, no one is using abortion as their main method of birth control, I’ve seen this argument before and that’s a load of crap. It’s expensive, it’s inconvenient, it’s uncomfortable, and emotional. I’ve seen pro choice arguments that some women just go get an abortion 3 times a year instead of “being responsible” and I just can’t imagine anyone in their right mind chooses abortion as a primary birth control method. Not all birth control works for all women, and abortion is usually an absolute last resort when all else (birth control, condom, plan b pill) fails. Also what the first commenter said about unsafe abortions is absolutely true. A lot of folks believe that abortion is a relatively new procedure, and in reality abortion has been around for a long time. Modern medicine has only made it safer for those that choose to do so. Arguing that taking away legal abortions would cause them to cease to exist is like arguing that taking condoms away from teenagers will keep them from having sex. History has proven both of those things to not be the case, a woman with an unwanted pregnancy will likely seek out an abortion whether it is legal or not. We might as well provide women a safe and clean clinic to have that procedure instead of forcing them to opt for unsafe back alley abortions. Sometimes I wonder what pro choice arguments and reproductive healthcare would look like  if men were primarily responsible for pregnancy and childbirth. Personally I feel like plan b pills and birth control pills should be readily available for anyone who needs them without having to make a doctors appointment. In some countries you can order birth control and plan b online, I wish the US would get with the times and offer these things more readily. Women’s health can be a very frustrating thing in comparison to men’s health.
The idea that a child is a “punishment” for sex is totally disgusting to me and shows a lack of care about actual lives from the ant-Choice camp.
Exactly. It seems oxymoronic to me. I’ll never understand why they want to force an unwanted child on anyone, and I don’t think I’ve ever seen an anti-choicer promoting adoption. There are so many living children that need good homes already, it seems like an unwanted pregnancy does more harm to that statistic than it does good. Why not adopt a child instead of arguing that women should be forced to birth and raise yet another unwanted child? A lot of women can’t afford to raise a child and an unwanted child is more likely to be neglected and placed into a foster home, so then what? Is it better to be for the child to grow up poor and neglected? It would be more productive to start with feeding and homing the children that need parents before we start forcing our ideals onto hypothetical cells.
This is exactly what I tell the anti choice crowd anytime they want to try and "debate" abortion. They want to put an end to abortion and turn women into human incubators but they never want to talk about the fact that 21% of children in the US live below the poverty level. Or the 20.3 MILLION children without access to basic health care. Or the 16.2 MILLION children that face hunger on a regular basis because they don't have enough to eat. And these are just the top 3 problems. They don't care about any of these things, but they are all for bringing even more children into the world simply to punish women for having sex. Now, once they solve all these problems, I'll be more than willing to talk to them about abortion. Not that I'll be changing my mind, but I'll be willing to discuss it.
Access to contraceptive and abortion would ironically help solve all of those problems!
While I see one would want to abort the baby for the sake of their career, I would have to disagree that aborting a fetus for the sake on one's convenience is okay. Getting pregnant (or getting someone pregnant) is not a small mistake and most people today are well-informed of what could happen after having sex. It might be a small thing that causes the pregnancy, but the act in and of itself surely cannot be considered small by any means! If people are using other methods to prevent pregnancy, then that would imply that most women who get pregnancies today get it because they chose to not use a different form of birth control OR that their previous choice in birth control simply failed. For the latter, which you're saying is basically all abortions, then the question of whether or not this fetus is a human being comes into play. For the former, the fetus should certainly be born as the woman knew exactly how to prevent getting pregnant and chose otherwise. For cases like these where the woman took precautionary measures to prevent pregnancy, or where the woman never had any part in getting pregnant (like rape) it comes down to what you consider the "ball of cells" in the fetus to be. Why do you consider those ball of cells to not be human life? If abortions are made illegal, it will reduce the number of pregnancies to almost nothing. Considering how we have other highly effective means of birth control, women with unwanted pregnancies will cease to exist. But for the fraction that do get pregnant knowing both how to prevent a pregnancy and that abortions are illegal, maybe they might seek out illegal unauthorized abortions. But the number, IMO, will be so minuscule to the point of irrelevancy. I think an important question in moving this dialogue forward is this: Why don't you consider those ball of cells human life? Do you consider it a potential for life? What draws the line between a ball of cells and a human being?
A. There is no data that suggests that less women would get pregnant if abortions were illegal, and I think that such an incredulous claim needs some kind of source from you. B. Women pass fertilized eggs all the time without even realizing it. These fertilized eggs are not human beings. We pass them naturally, and it’s only considered an actual pregnancy once the egg attaches to the uterine wall. If abortions are immoral, you would also have to argue that women regularly murder helpless fertilized eggs through the natural processes of our body. One could even go as far as to say that ejaculating into a tissue is murder, as the sperm wasn’t used specifically to fertilize an egg, and thus has been a waste of a potential for life. See how ridiculous that sounds? Edit: I think it all boils down to a common poor understanding of women’s anatomy and reproduction. Edit 2: I really encourage you to watch this video of Bill Nye explaining it, he has a pretty solid argument for what I’m trying to explain here http://bigthink.com/videos/bill-nye-on-abortion-and-womens-rights#embedBox
Lol. Abortion is illegal in Ireland. Birth control is accessible. Thousands of women every year travel overseas to access abortion, while thousands more take illegal abortion pills purchased online.
Look up the birth rates and maternal death rates from unsafe abortions in a country where it is illegal and get back to me.
Hey there! I'm an ob/gyn; I do a lot of contraceptive counseling and options counseling. People are bad at making logically sensible decisions.  People will say "it will be terrible if I become pregnant, I absolutely could not have that in my life right now," and go on to say that they're only using condoms sometimes, but when I offer a contraceptive, they say, "no, I'll just use condoms more often." And I'm thinking (and saying) "I have told you nothing you didn't already know.  What makes you think you're going to be better at using condoms next week than you were last week?" I don't get mad, I don't call it their fault.  I see every unplanned pregnancy as a contraceptive failure.  Why?  Because one of the steps of a contraceptive preventing a pregnancy is somebody using it. You use broken condoms as a reason to feel torn.  Well, why don't you still call it "the woman's responsibility"?  She should have been using a more effective method of contraception, like an IUD!  And how about rape?  She should have known that she had a risk of being raped, she lives in the USA!  She should have gotten a contraceptive method just in case. These are absurd arguments, I know, and that's my point -- I don't think there's a benefit in allowing things based on "fault." Take heart disease.  Preventing coronary artery disease is better than doing a bypass, but we still do bypasses when people eat cheeseburgers until their arteries clog. Now, I've said all that, but the crux of it is that you see abortion as having costs, so you don't want to provide them unless the woman... deserves it? It's such a strange concept to me, to think of who deserves what medical procedures.  I'm pretty sure I swore an oath not to think like that.  Everybody deserves healthcare, and if their goals of health involve not being pregnant, well, then an abortion is part of their healthcare.  Being pregnant is not a benign condition. So why don't you elaborate a little on why you think an abortion has social, economic, and moral costs, as you described.
TL;DR Doing the wrong thing is okay now.
What does it mean for something to be the wrong thing?  What does it mean for something to be okay? It's not my job to determine these things.  It is my job to prevent unplanned pregnancies.  To that end, sure, not using contraceptive was wrong.  Having an unplanned pregnancy is not okay.  But why should I hold it against them?  I have found a fault-free way of thinking to be more peaceful for myself and to give me more compassion for my patients. I hope you live with more compassion and less anger.
Murder is wrong, rape is wrong, failing to take care of your children is not okay. You sound like a sociopath, implying there's no "morality" to abide by. And by doing so you shift the blame and the responsibility on to everyone else. Then why don't you just kill all women? Seems death is your goal and you don't believe anything is wrong. Yes, because women are adult human beings - not dogs. Why should you get angry when people are killed? I guess the holocaust was alright then, didn't affect you after all. You sound absolutely deranged, you belong in a mental hospital. You take no responsibility for anything and so you push responsibility onto others. I'm surprised you haven't started slitting people's throats in the name of "compassion" after all if eliminating homelessness is your goal then who cares about a little genocide right? You are one deranged sick little freak.
Well, I'll keep hoping.
Do you think children who were create to punish "irresponsible" women have happy lives? I was born because my mother got pregnant on the pill and felt too guilty to have an abortion. I strongly believe she should have had one. Neither of my parents wanted any more kids. I would gladly have not been born rather than being forced on them.
he should go on a site called dreamin demon and see all the child abusers and wtf happens when people are forced to be parents.
Sounds like you're suicidal, if you want to kill yourself there's nothing stopping you - but please don't suggest that murder is the answer. Just because you don't want to live doesn't mean others don't.
Not suicidal, just aware that my parents lives would have been much better with abortion and it's not like I would have minded! It is physically impossible for a fetus to have a desire to live.
You are painfully ignorant of how easy it to get pregnant, despite using birth control. The failure rate of popular forms of birth control per year is 15% for condoms and 7% for the pill/patch. Pro life Republicans also try to stop healthcare plans from covering birth control and certain groups are also trying to defund Planned Parenthood which does provide these things for free. I find this opinion morally reprehensible. People do not forfeit their right to self determination because they had sex. I am struggling to find this article, as what I can see is a breakage rate higher than that abortion rate. The Guttmacher institute has a lot of info on their site. If you're torn about rape and broken condoms, what about when the contraception fails for other reasons? Additionally, there are groups whose goal is misleading women (and men) about sex. Abstinence only education is borderline criminal. And we on this side of the debate value the right to self determination higher than the fetus. Unlikely to convince me. I'm not coming from a position based on religious dogma, despite having experienced said dogma in my younger years. I don't say this antagonistically, but realistically. I do agree that the goal is to limit the number of abortions that happen, but for me it's through education and access to contraception and health care. The majority on the other side of the debate want to limit abortion by limiting women's choice. I have a  fundamental disagreement with that.
I hear from other pro-choice people on this subreddit that it's 3% for condoms. Could you please clarify on the statistics with a source? That would be greatly appreciated! Even if they aren't free, condoms and the pill are fairly cheap and are not an economic burden to anyone. It is not because they had sex that they lose this right, rather it is because they decided to get pregnant. Having sex is not the issue, the issue is not using birth control and then deciding to use abortion as a birth control (IMO) Here you go! Page 4 btw. I should have linked this earlier tbh! I am torn about that too, but I would have to lean towards keeping the baby even in events where preventative measures that were taken failed. I consider it human life (albeit in its most basic form) Really? I'd love to hear about this. It sounds pretty strange to me tbh I agree! People will always have sex, it is a part of human nature. To try and prevent that is ridiculous. Why is that? Could you please elaborate!
Why do pro-choice people value women's right to self determination/bodily autonomy more than the fetus? Well, as a woman that's easy. Being pregnant is fucking hard, it takes a toll on a body. Child birth/labor is painful and can be traumatic and both pregnancy and birth can cause permanent damage to women, or even death. Women are conscious. We have memories and dreams and relationships and already exist in the world. A fetus has none of this. A fetus is a clump of cells which can't even feel pain. So for is, the question is who the fuck are you to tell us that control of our own body is less important than a clump of cells?
Welcome to parenthood. So is working to provide for your family. Are men who are forced to pay child support nothing more than slaves? Having your skull crushed, having your rights taken away, and having bars mandated to deliver birth defects because you are denied all rights be it because you were inconvenient, the wrong race or not the sex your parents wanted. And by the time women usually get pregnant they're about 40% of the way through their lives. Children have immeasurable potential and are owed care by their parents. If I numb a person to pain can I crush their skull? You're a clump of cells, if I decide you have no value because you're inconvenient or because you're causing me harm brought on by my own choices (like 99.999999999999999999999999999% of pregnancies) then can I kill you?
Pregnancy is not necessarily a prerequisite for parenthood. Did you seriously just compare pregnancy/child birth to having a job? Are women who are forced to be pregnant nothing more than slaves? Not sure about "bars mandated to deliver birth defects", but no one where is advocating eugenics (abortion based on race/sex) Women don't have bodily autonomy because they are closer to the end of life than a baby? That doesn't make sense, nearly everyone is closer to death than a baby. And sure, children are owed care, but a fetus is not a child. I see that you think abortion is literally the same as murdering an adult. Here on r/prochoice, that's not persuasive because we don't believe that a fetus is the same as a person or the same as a born child. It's fine that you do, but using violent imagery isn't going to convince people here. (I know, abortion is "violence" to you.   I also don't care.) Did you really just claim that nearly 100% of pregnancies are chosen by women? You do know the failure rates of birth control, right? You can't decide that I have no value because my survival is not dependant on you sacrificing your body. I'm not a clump of cells. I'm a fully formed human with organs that function independently of another body. I know that this is not convincing to you, but I at least ask that you consider your arguments because a few of them don't make much sense.
No one uses abortion as birth control. In the event that someone is having several abortions in a short period of time it is indicative of an abusive relationship involving reproductive coercion. So women whose partners sabotage their birth control to abuse and control them are just SOL in your world? Yikes.
Hey there, this is a pet peeve of mine, but everybody who gets an abortion uses abortion as birth control.  That's the only thing one can use abortion for. Also, nobody uses abortion for contraception.  It's something that it is impossible to use abortion for.
You’re right.
Also, secrets from the abortion clinic? There are frequent flyers.  People who get repeat abortions.  They have just as much right to their eighth abortion as they did to their first. They generally have a lot going on in their lives.  As their doctor, I advise them, "hey look, you should really consider something for contraception.  I think it would serve your interests a lot better.  Here are the reasons why." But once I've told them that, as somebody not living in their body, I don't make the decision for them.
I agree and have no issue with having as many abortions as someone needs. It is their body.
People who sabotage their partners are disgusting. Women are very guilty of this, they're also very brazen about it. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5CNHwhHWPoQ By pro-choice standards is this not rape of the man? He didn't consent to fatherhood and will now be made into a slave forced to work himself to death to support a child. Abortion is readily used as birth control, it's also used as racial cleansing, sex selection, and even abuse towards men who love their children.
That's with with perfect use. And condoms are 3% at best. Source from ACOG (American Congress of Obstetrician and Gynecologists). I actually under estimated the failure rates, but generally, most sources agree, +/- 2%. Condoms are not a burden if they are given out for free. And the pill is cheap, but if you're not making any money, it is a huge financial burden. It should be available for free. The societal benefit is huge. I am confused here. The vast majority of abortions are from unintended pregnancies. More than half of women getting abortions DID use contraceptives. And most of those who didn't use them did so because they thought the risk of pregnancy is low when it is actually super high. These women need access to better education and then contraceptive methods. What you are stating is parroting of right wing talking points, rather than a reflection of reality. You may not have been lied to, but you were intentionally misled. Thank you, but I was expecting a source for both the rape statistic and the contraceptive failure statistic, as the latter is far more common. Would you like others to force their beliefs on you? And expect you to forfeit your rights only because of their beliefs? Also, there is quite a bit of hypocrisy in this, as 13% of women who have abortions were evangelical Christians. A group that is often the loudest protesters in the US. 24% were Catholics. Abstinence only education is literally this. There are also fake abortion clinics that lie to women about the risks of abortion. The former is almost exclusively pushed by conservative politicians. Abstinence itself can fail even if it is done "perfectly" if the person isn't educated as to how STDs are transmitted and how pregnancy happens. A real human has more value than a potential human. And the human has rights. That's also ignoring the real life implications of unwanted pregnancy and the standard of living of the potential human who is not wanted, likely poor and likelier to fall into crime. But that is a long story.
Whats the societal benefit to having self control rather than acting like sex is a need like food or water?
I'm not a fan of yoking society with outdated religious beliefs that ignore human nature.
I mean like, you could always get married? That's just my opinion.
My point is you should stop pushing your social ideology on others. If people don't want to get married, they shouldn't have to. If people don't want to have kids, they shouldn't have to.
Fair enough, I shouldn’t expect people to adhere to any particular ideology. But why do you think that the mother’s rights allow for the fetus to be aborted. Is it not human life in a very basic form? I feel like the entire pro-life vs pro-choice debate hinges upon whether or not you consider the fetus human life or not.
I don't argue that a fetus is human or living. Just like I wouldn't argue that my kidney is human and living. But I don't consider either to be a human being. Neither can survive without being literally attached to a person.
I can't disagree with that!
But is the fetus human? Whether or not it is a being, a person, is the whole topic of personhood, but I don’t think it’s correct to call a fetus non-human. What do you think? Also, if you use the criteria of: if it has to be attached to a person, it isn’t a human being, wouldn’t that draw up parallels to other situations. Would people on life support be considered non-human because their life depends solely on a machine?

Do you think people should be involuntary organ donors?
Do you think parents should pay for their kids? Why do you think people should be in involuntary servitude? Hint: It's a choice to engage in a reproductive act.
And its their choice whether or not they choose to keep an accident from said reproductive act.
So it is morally acceptable for parents to abandon their children. - even if they're more than capable of caring for them. That's pretty fucking disturbed.
What child? I'm talking about a few cells.
You're just a bunch of cells. That "bunch of cells" is vulnerable to birth defects. What if we kill all those "bunches of cells" because they're girls like China? That has to be okay right? After all those "bunches of cells" which we KNOW for a fact are women don't have rights right?
Keep up the troll game man, lord knows we don't have enough of 'em on the internet.
And there's the error in your logic. You suffer from a cognitive distortion (exagerrated or irrational thought process) known as all or nothing thinking. We don't write law based on your erroneous thought processes.
There’s a few things I really disagree with in your reasoning. Not sure if it’s just how you phrased it, but it really comes off as all the responsibility falls on the woman. It takes two to make a baby and men should be responsible for protection also. I realize it’s more common for women to be on the pill or some other form of bc but men should also be responsible and wrap it up. Abortion was made legal in the first place because women were trying to force a miscarriage by putting their bodies through crazy amounts of stress and drinking and eating crazy concoctions. Women were trying so hard to have miscarriages that they would harm themselves and often cause permanent damage and even death. Making abortions illegal wouldn’t stop abortions, it would only stop safe abortions. A fetus’ value should not be placed above that of the woman carrying it. As far as women having to live with the consequences of having unprotected sex, it’s only going to hurt the child in the long run. Having a mother resent her child for possibly ruining her life, tying her to a man that may or may not also want a child, or possibly be given up and placed in foster care. It doesn’t make for a good environment for a child just so the mother is punished. Some women can’t do hormonal birth control due to the side effects or choose not to dose themselves with hormones. Yes there’s condoms but they have a 97% success rate when used perfectly. Accidents happen and I have had guys flat out refuse to wear them and once a guy pulled it off sometime in the middle. With all that said, I think abortions after 25 weeks should be for medical purposes only.At 25 weeks, a fetus has become viable and has a decent chance of living outside the mother. Before then, it can’t live without the mother and it should be the mothers choice to continue or not.
Abortions after 25 weeks are almost exclusively for medical purposes. Scans that reveal extreme birth defects can't be done until like 22 weeks, so even planned and wanted pregnancies are sometimes ended in the third trimester.
Exactly. I just really hate the propaganda that gets spread around that all abortions are killing a fully formed baby and how late term abortions are something that women do gladly. Genetic tests can be done starting at 18 weeks and anatomy scans are done around 20 weeks.
This disturbs me so much. Most of the women going through a late term abortion do not want that outcome. Either their life is in danger or the fetus has a serious birth defect that won’t allow it to live long or it will live a life of extreme suffering. How dare anyone suggest a woman in that situation be forced to potentially die or give birth to a child that will suffer. It’s beyond reprehensible. This is not something that is tossed around lightly and not very many clinics/hospitals will even do it. But the GOP likes to make it seem as if this is a daily thing. Bullshit.
Literally no one has an abortion after 25 weeks except for horrific health issues in the mother or fetus.
Yes, I realize that, but IME most pro life people picture abortions as mothers killing fully formed babies when late term abortions are pretty rare and most times the pregnancy was planned and wanted. Before 25 weeks it can’t survive outside of the mothers womb and shouldn’t be considered as anything other than a fetus fully dependent on the mother and the mothers choice if she wants to continue the pregnancy or not.
This. I’m not against an abortion after 25 weeks, especially when the majority are due to a major health issue. But let’s be real here: how can anyone call a fetus a life or viable when there is almost a 0% survival rate before 24 weeks? If it depends on the woman to exist and will not exist outside of her body on its own, then it is not alive. This is a parasite/host relationship.
This is my biggest reasoning for abortion before 25 weeks. How can an abortion be murder when it can’t live outside the womb? That’s not a person.
What would you say to forcing men to be there to provide for the families that they have accidentally created? It sounds extreme but it is an idea circulating among many conservatives in America today! While this is true, we now have many advanced forms of pregnancy protection to prevent women from ever having to do such a thing like that! I actually think the opposite! If abortions are made illegal, I feel that more women and men would be conscious of the sexual decisions they make to prevent pregnancy at all as having an abortion is no longer an option. That is actually a really good point, babies that come out of these circumstances won't be raised in the best environments. However, this would then lead to whether or not aborting the fetus is murder (read further down this response) If that is the case, then why do so many abortions occur? If condoms only have a 3% failure rate, then surely all abortions would be exclusive to women who are victims to defective means of preventing pregnancy as women wouldn't rely on abortions when having one night stands. Isn't that some type of rape? (Assuming the woman was not informed of this) What do you mean by decent? Also, you're saying that the mother should be able to abort the fetus because she's the one keeping it alive, I'd like to know more about why you think its ability to live outside the mother is an acceptable criteria for whether or not it can be aborted.
Forcing men and women to deal with each other for 18 years to raise a child neither potentially wanted and would have aborted given the option, is detrimental for the child involved. How would you force men to stay and help raise a child? There’s already problems many women have getting support and help from fathers that wanted the child initially so suggesting to force men that have no interest in raising a child just isn’t feasible. Especially with the overwhelming conservative theme of pregnancy prevention being only the woman’s responsibility and it’s her punishment for having sex, but nothing is said about the men who help in creating the child. A child should not be a punishment. How is that view pro life? Birth control is not 100% effective in any form. Accidents happen. So you suggest punishing women with an unwanted child when they did everything they could to prevent it in the first place? I don’t know any woman that uses abortion as a form of birth control and the havoc it would have on a body would be crazy and unsustainable. It is a last resort, often times with the child’s best interest in mind. If a woman is struggling to pay bills and make ends meet or is single and has no wish to raise a child alone, bringing a child into the mix would be a huge burden on the mother all as punishment. But then conservatives tell women to just not have sex, but again nothing is said about the men also participating. The argument that making it illegal would make people think more on the consequences of sex is just bullshit. It was illegal and that didn’t stop women before. Just because something is illegal doesn’t mean people will stop, they will just find alternatives like unsafe and harmful abortions. Weed is illegal in most places and yet people still do it. Having abortion legal provides women with a clean and safe environment with trained professionals to perform the abortion instead of risking their own health and safety. I mean decent chance of survival being that a lot depends on the hospital and what their NICU can do. Most rural hospitals can not handle early term babies and would send mothers to larger hospitals to deal with preemies. Even then things could not go well, lungs can be too underdeveloped or other issues so while 25 weeks is considered viability for a fetus it is not always guaranteed. For me, it’s a big deal that the baby could live outside of the mothers body. It becomes more of a person as it has reached the point of being able to live outside the mother. Until then everything is dependent on the mother, it’s passed the point of being just a bundle of cells. All that said, I still think it’s wrong to impose your morals or beliefs on someone else. I think pro life people should focus more on lowering abortion rates through better sex education and easier access to birth control. Both of which have shown lower abortion rates. Simply saying don’t have sex hasn’t worked in the past and having abortion illegal also didn’t work, but states having actual sex education and easily available birth control has been proven to lower abortion rates. Also providing mothers with better support and less expensive prenatal care would help in curbing abortions and allowing the mothers to feel like they have more options than being poor and struggling with a child or an abortion. Increasing funding to state programs for child services and adoption would also be bigger and more tangible steps than just forcing fathers to stay and help with child care.
You can think whatever you want, but the actual fact is that demand for abortions doesn't go away when it's illegal. People aren't more careful about sex if abortion is illegal or not. Why don't you actually have sex and then get back to us, sweetie.
Making something illegal won't make it unavailable. It's like drugs. It's illegal, but it doesn't make the supply disappear. As long as there is some sort of demand, there will be supply. Making abortions illegal only changes who gives them.
Why do these people show up here, and why do people engage? The never are here in good faith.
“There is a concept called body autonomy. It’s generally considered a human right. Bodily autonomy means a person has control over whom or what uses their body, for what, and for how long. It’s why you can’t be forced to donate blood, tissue, or organs. Even if you are dead. Even if you’d save or improve 20 lives. It’s why someone can’t touch you, have sex with you, or use your body in any way without your continuous consent. A fetus is using someone’s body parts. Therefore under bodily autonomy, it is there by permission, not by right. It needs a person’s continuous consent. If they deny and withdraw their consent, the pregnant person has the right to remove them from that moment. A fetus is equal in this regard because if I need someone else’s body parts to live, they can also legally deny me their use. By saying a fetus has a right to someone’s body parts until it’s born, despite the pregnant person’s wishes, you are doing two things. Granting a fetus more rights to other people’s bodies than any born person. Awarding a pregnant person fewer rights to their body than a corpse." By Hanna Marie Moy
Is saying that a child is owed care by it's parents slavery? We know that - according to the courts and best interest custody laws - children are owed love and affection as well, is this rape of the parents? Why is it okay to enslave men\women and to expect parents to love their children and give them affection but not okay to expect a mother to not kill or abuse her child in the womb? A child has the right to parental care, women are not excused from providing that.
This person has got to be a troll. They're posting this word vomit on every comment thread with the same nonsensical "arguments" which are already addressed elsewhere in the comments. Tom, you are not here in good faith. Please don't comment again until you are.
So, to you, pregnancy is punishment for having sex. Why do women need to be punished for having sex? Do men get punished for having sex too, in your ideal world? Or do they get to walk away unscathed because it's natural for a man to have sex?
I think we should continue to provide free birth control because it does reduce the rate of abortions. Proposing this to pro-lifers meets usually with “keep your legs closed! Condoms are free. Why should I support your choices?” (Words taken from an actual Facebook thread. I am a female hence the “keep your legs closed” comment). However, it is funny and amusing to me that people whine about the services that should be offered to women. Birth control is usually met with a “why should I pay?” (Um, I thought you were pro-life and anti-abortion so wouldn’t less pregnancies be a good thing) Asking for paid maternity leave is usually met with the same whine. (Guess fuck the baby? It’s born now and it is someone else’s problem? Neveemind better outcomes are associated with mothers being able to stay home after a birth. It also helps take the pressure of what will I do when the baby is here and I am the breadwinner?) Asking for better government healthcare services (falls under fuck the baby) Asking for better daycare services (daycare is expensive! A person actually said “well, have the grandma watch the kid. Great for people with retired parents but not so good for those whose parents need to work, are dead, or assholes)

Excellent arguments to counter the "pro-forced birth" movement! Many thanks for posting this.
Hammer on Nail. They are pro birth, not pro life.
Anti-choice
If it's really the law in Ireland that you can't give up a kid for adoption unless ruled unfit, that's nonsense. TBF, even prolife folks would want that changed.
Yeah, that doesn't sound right to me.  I did find the following: But that doesn't really say anything about declarations of unfit motherhood.  I'd love to see more clarification.

This is really horrifying
[removed]
Your so called God let's people get shot while praying in church, I don't think he cares about your prayers to turn women into reproductive slaves.

How did you end up here?

[removed]
Dude.  That doesn't belong here.
[removed]
You weren't a baby when you were conceived

Tara's such a good speaker on this subject... It's obvious that it means a lot to her personally. She's completely right about avoiding binary "boxing match" style debates too. It deserves more nuance than that. Fair play to her!
Really enjoyed that, thanks for posting it.
Glad you liked it! I'd recommend following Tara on Twitter, she's just as funny and informative there @TaraFlynn


I’ve been told that within the next semester my class will be forced to watch an abortion in “bioethics” class. It is essentially a part of a series of religious classes designed to indoctrinate children at my catholic school. Obviously their objective is to indoctrinate children into a pro-forced-birth stance, but how should I respond to this? I’ll be in a great position to refute their talking points and scare-tactics; I’d like your advice
Ask for comparison videos of other medical procedures.  Ask for a video of a shoulder dystocia, or a fourth-degree perineal laceration repair, or an episiotomy.  Ask for a video on a symphisiotomy. Ask if the visual appeal of a medical procedure determines its ethical value.
Oooh I'm totally gonna do this, thank you
Let me know how it goes. Remember that being right is not always the most important thing.
And yet none of those procedures has the intended result of ending the life of a living, human being. There are specific ethical concerns brought up by abortion that aren't brought up by any of those other procedures. There is no ethical debate (that I'm aware of) over shoulder surgery.
Some things are unpleasant to see.  I don't think that the unpleasantness of watching something determines its ethical value. PS: "shoulder dystocia" is not a shoulder surgery.  You didn't say it was, but it seems like maybe you thought it was.  This is purely an FYI.
That is exactly why showing a video of an abortion is not an argument but an appeal to the non-rational.
They may not even be showing you an abortion, but a D & C of a dead fetus or miscarriage.
Exactly, would their really be any way to tell?  It's the same procedure used for many many different situations.  A 50 y/o post-menopausal  woman may need a D&C for medical reasons.
I don’t think so. It’s most likely a propaganda film with totally inaccurate medical information.
What is a D&C?
Dilation and Curettage. It’s the evacuation of the uterine lining. Many miscarriages leave material behind that requires this, abortions use it (although it’s not as common anymore with the advent of medical abortions and usually the fetus is deformed or ill when this is used) and also many non pregnant women have it as well.
Ahh understood, thank you
Tell them that it's unable to feel pain.
http://www.doctorsonfetalpain.com/fetal-pain-the-evidence/ https://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/845410
But that’s a lie...
Could you elaborate more on "great position"? Do you get to debate or something? It just would help to know what your forum is before thinking of strategies... imo anyway. Also, is this high school? My first thought was to request spending the rest of the semester viewing videos of young women who were forced to raise kids they didn't want and tracking where those kids wound up, because you could fill much more than a day watching that! But that's just kind of a snarky retort, perhaps not that effective.
Yes this is highschool and yes we get to debate
Argue. Don’t get yourself into trouble but one of the more powerful things you can do, not to change the mind of your teacher but to hopefully influence the opinion of your classmates is to argue. Questions, question, questions, hit them with facts, be as skeptical as you can get away with. It may not accomplish much right away but it might help put a lot of students in a position of questioning and hopefully they’ll do they’re own research.
I'll do my damnedest, thank you
It's probably a stronger position to ask them to question or defend their position than try to state your opinion.  Ask questions to get the students thinking; don't try to tell them what is or isn't, encourage them to make up their own mind by providing them with information and questions for further exploration and research.
If they were serious about discussing morality, and not just inducing an emotional reaction, they should show women who have had abortions and who almost had them but changed their minds. For both types they should show good examples of those who were happy with their choices, and those who regretted them. Showing blood and gore is their way of saying they have no better argument to make, so they will appeal to your gut.
ask if anyone can imagine a satisfying way to remove a fetus as soon as the pregnant person chooses. because they're betting that the associated blood and tools will be sufficient to turn students off. in reality, the method of removal is irrelevant to these people. they want the pregnant person to have zero choice in terminating the pregnancy, regardless of how tenderly the fetus is removed. that's what is meant by autonomy… the pregnant person choosing how much health risk to assume for this or any pregnancy. ALL pregnancies are dangerous, regardless of how many children any individual has willfully birthed.
Alot of abortions now are in early pregnancy. So, if this is a video of a woman taking several tablets, holding a hot water bottle, and having a couple of hours of pain, before perhaps some close ups of blood clots on her pad, that sounds dull and pointless. Showing intentionally gory videos of worst case scenarios, and using scare tactics to stop young people making a proper, informed and unbiased choice if they have to go through something this difficult, doesnt sit very well with me. Its a realy shame this is happening in schools, I'd love to hear how you handle this. Good luck!

This is from 2004, but still so relevant :/  Is there a concise update about what happened with the laws she mentions that could restrict abortion so much?
Heartbreaking -- and a topic the forced-birthers would prefer to ignore.
Thank you so much for posting. Hopefully some that don't fully understand how laws like that affect women will read it.

Head over to r/BlueMidterm2018 to celebrate!
I empathize with women who choose to abort because I see how hard it must be, though I can never really know myself, being male and unable to become pregnant.That being said, I try to think of most issues logically when arguing policies and what should and shouldn't be law.  I'm going to disregard religious arguments because religion and government, and thereby law, are separate.So here's my line of reasoning:  If abortion is supposedly wronging the child because it's denying it life that it deserves, then how is abstinence, contraception, "pulling out", or Plan B not the same, for that child's experience?The egg that is available to be fertilized that month will not be available again, it will disappear after the potential mother in question has a period.  The exact sperm the potential father may stick around a while longer, but the odds that same one would do the fertilization at a different time are almost nil anyway.In short, if you're choosing to skip having sex, or to put a condom on, you're CHOOSING to not have little Jimmy.  What is the difference TO JIMMY whether he is not conceived, or whether he is aborted.There is none, an while I'm not a proponent of extremely late, 23 week abortions or later, I think we have to be realistic about the difference between potential life, and a living breathing person who's right here in front of us all.TL:DR contraception is the same as abortion to that exact child that was never born.
I personally tend to discuss contraception as it relates to women's need for abortion- which is to say, many arguments used against abortion ("It doesn't free women", "It enables rapists and abusers", "It lets men use women/lets' men off the hook") can all be used against contraception, too.  If you can understand why a woman would use contraception, then you can understand why a woman would want to have an abortion, even if you think preventing conception is morally permissible while abortion is not.  It's a good tool, I think, to make people start understanding women's motivations.  I've yet to hear someone call a woman on birth control selfish but hear it all the time about women having abortions, even though the motivation behind both actions is exactly the same. That said, for the anti-abortion folks, they view themselves as "a voice for the voiceless"- to them, lil' Jimmy as a zygote is a reality, unlike the mere potential lil' Jimmy represented by individual sperm and ova.  They view themselves as guardians, I suppose, of a being that cannot yet say "I wanna be gestated and born!" but, according to them, definitely would if it could.  So I don't know that this argument would fly in that sense.
Some anti choicers are against birth control too though.  I agree with your reasoning, but I think birth control is a good thing.  Some Catholics (not a lot since plenty of Catholics use birth control and get abortions) are against birth control for themselves and everyone else.  And honestly is hurts their cause, because birth control is something that actually prevents a lot of abortions.  You're looking at it from a perspective of secularism and people having choices, but a lot of anti choicers look at it from a religious perspective and believe that everyone should be forced to abide by their one certain religious doctrine.  You see people as individuals, while they think everyone should be just like them.
But why would you want to get into that kind of discussion to begin with? You don't need any "line of reasoning" other than "her body, her choice". Anything else just gives the anti-choice crowd ammunition to try and argue with.
I mean,  it's definitely a debate going on in the United States,  and many people won't stop at hearing her body her choice, so I've been thinking on how to break it down for them.
The thing with the anti-choice crowd is there is no reasoning with them. Their argument is based on emotion and feeling. All the logic in the world isn't going to change their minds one bit so even getting into a discussion over it is pointless.
Yeah, i do suspect that even those pro-life proponents who seem to want to engage in logical discussion would just break down to feelings and appeals to emotion when they run out of arguments
Yeah, I'm with you on this one.  It's a good counter to the "what if you had been aborted?" line of reasoning. I have a few friends who know that if it were not for their mother's prior abortion, they would never have been born. The issue is, your line of reasoning won't do anything against arguments based on fetal personhood.  The "oh, but at conception you have your own DNA and are a living human organism!" arguments.
I mean having dna doesn't separate a fetus from a fertilized chicken egg in my opinion.  Why the same sperm and egg are nothing special sitting in two people but magically special an hour later if they're together in the woman baffles me. And i know,  people say what if i was aborted, like who cares?  Then there'd be another person in my place, or one fewer person.  The world would go on. What if my birth father wore a condom? Such a travesty? Burn condom factories to the ground?
Yup.

idk about this but when I was looking into getting an abortion it took for-fucking-ever and I did wonder if I could somehow get the pills online

I was 22 years old when I got the news that rattled my world and ultimately changed the toxic life I was in.  I was living with my boyfriend-at-the-time in a small apartment. I was a waitress at a small cafe and let's just say he went from one job to the next. We struggled to pay rent and feed ourselves every month. We struggled financially so much that one morning I awoke to my car being repossesed and towed right out of my driveway. I had to ride my bicycle to work 5 miles everyday because he did not allow me to use his car.   Believe it or not, at this time he and I had recently reconciled after a break up where we argued about infidelity and him wanting an open relationship and me wanting to be monogamous. After three months apart he came to me and said he would rather be together exclusively than not at all and I was naive enough to go back. It didn't take very long for me to start thinking I had made a mistake, but at that point I was trapped in this destructive world I had created for myself.   In the time we were apart, I was a patient in a high risk phsyc ward. I spent nearly 2 weeks locked away and isolated from society and then nearly 2 months in mandated intensive psychotherapy 5 days a week. I was a very young adult with extreme emotional damage just learning how to get by, recently diagnosed with bipolar disorder and fed a buffet of pills (thanks to our broken pharmaceutical industry) in order to try and make the pain go away and feel "normal".  Well I took it too far and almost killed myself by taking far too many one night when I felt more hopeless than ever. And After all that, I still went back to him. I needed to feel like I wasn't alone, and I guess he was just as broken as I was.    Fast forward to the same day my car was towed away from our apartment, I had a doctors appointment. I had been nauseas and irritated for over a week but kept blaming it on the cocktail of antidepressants and antipsychotic I was taking daily. It was now time to really found out what was causing all the symptoms. He drove and dropped me off at the doctors, went home and waited for my call to come back.   I found out that I was nearly 8 weeks pregnant. A rush of emotions flew through me like I had never felt before. Part of me was elated, I've always wanted to have children, but like this? I was 22, actively using drugs, drinking and in an emotionally abusive and controlling relationship with someone who still acted like a kid himself, and with no interest of having one of their own. "You're ruining my life if you have that thing" he said to me. "You're selfish, you're a narcissist." I could go on, but I'll save you the trouble.    I didn't have a long time to decide what to do because of how far along I was when I found out. But experiencing the way my partner reacted to the news finally triggered something in me; that I wanted better, I needed better to have a child brought into this world. And not just for a child but for myself. I was raised without my father in the picture and it brought along a lot of pain early on in life. I knew that if I had this child, I would be alone. They would likely suffer with me. I had no car, little money, no support and no help. Not to mention the risks of pregnancy when drugs and alcohol are involved early on. I felt it would be selfish for me to bring a child into the world with such an unfair start at life. I loved that little soul that was part of me don't get me wrong, it's a feeling like no other and I still hope to feel it again someday. But I ended my pregnancy, alone. I cried out in pain. I got violently sick and layed helplessly in my bathtub soaked with my own blood as it passed through me.  Then my life went on though, I had another chance at everything but I was still financially tied to the toxic relationship I was in. He had stuck around since I got the abortion but something switched in me now and I resented him more than ever. I couldn't afford our apartment on my own and relied on him for transportation. I knew I wanted out but I had to plan it. I eventually found a room to rent walking distance from my job and was able to leave him for good and little by little, put the broken pieces of my life together.  Im now 25, living medication free in a stable environment with a partner that I love and respect. You know what gave me the strength to do it all? That tiny soul who taught me how much better I could do for myself, and I truly believe our time together will come again, and I'll be ready. <3 
Reposting for formatting: I was 22 years old when I got the news that rattled my world and ultimately changed the toxic life I was in. I was living with my boyfriend-at-the-time in a small apartment. I was a waitress at a small cafe and let's just say he went from one job to the next. We struggled to pay rent and feed ourselves every month. We struggled financially so much that one morning I awoke to my car being repossesed and towed right out of my driveway. I had to ride my bicycle to work 5 miles everyday because he did not allow me to use his car. Believe it or not, at this time he and I had recently reconciled after a break up where we argued about infidelity and him wanting an open relationship and me wanting to be monogamous. After three months apart he came to me and said he would rather be together exclusively than not at all and I was naive enough to go back. It didn't take very long for me to start thinking I had made a mistake, but at that point I was trapped in this destructive world I had created for myself. In the time we were apart, I was a patient in a high risk phsyc ward. I spent nearly 2 weeks locked away and isolated from society and then nearly 2 months in mandated intensive psychotherapy 5 days a week. I was a very young adult with extreme emotional damage just learning how to get by, recently diagnosed with bipolar disorder and fed a buffet of pills (thanks to our broken pharmaceutical industry) in order to try and make the pain go away and feel "normal".  Well I took it too far and almost killed myself by taking far too many one night when I felt more hopeless than ever. And After all that, I still went back to him. I needed to feel like I wasn't alone, and I guess he was just as broken as I was. Fast forward to the same day my car was towed away from our apartment, I had a doctors appointment. I had been nauseas and irritated for over a week but kept blaming it on the cocktail of antidepressants and antipsychotic I was taking daily. It was now time to really found out what was causing all the symptoms. He drove and dropped me off at the doctors, went home and waited for my call to come back. I found out that I was nearly 8 weeks pregnant. A rush of emotions flew through me like I had never felt before. Part of me was elated, I've always wanted to have children, but like this? I was 22, actively using drugs, drinking and in an emotionally abusive and controlling relationship with someone who still acted like a kid himself, and with no interest of having one of their own. "You're ruining my life if you have that thing" he said to me. "You're selfish, you're a narcissist." I could go on, but I'll save you the trouble. I didn't have a long time to decide what to do because of how far along I was when I found out. But experiencing the way my partner reacted to the news finally triggered something in me; that I wanted better, I needed better to have a child brought into this world. And not just for a child but for myself. I was raised without my father in the picture and it brought along a lot of pain early on in life. I knew that if I had this child, I would be alone. They would likely suffer with me. I had no car, little money, no support and no help. Not to mention the risks of pregnancy when drugs and alcohol are involved early on. I felt it would be selfish for me to bring a child into the world with such an unfair start at life. I loved that little soul that was part of me don't get me wrong, it's a feeling like no other and I still hope to feel it again someday. But I ended my pregnancy, alone. I cried out in pain. I got violently sick and layed helplessly in my bathtub soaked with my own blood as it passed through me. Then my life went on though, I had another chance at everything but I was still financially tied to the toxic relationship I was in. He had stuck around since I got the abortion but something switched in me now and I resented him more than ever. I couldn't afford our apartment on my own and relied on him for transportation. I knew I wanted out but I had to plan it. I eventually found a room to rent walking distance from my job and was able to leave him for good and little by little, put the broken pieces of my life together. Im now 25, living medication free in a stable environment with a partner that I love and respect. You know what gave me the strength to do it all? That tiny soul who taught me how much better I could do for myself, and I truly believe our time together will come again, and I'll be ready. <3
Thank you for sharing. I had a similar experience, with similar feelings.
I'm staunchly pro choice for lots of reasons, but your story truly did open my eyes to another reason. Thanks so much for sharing, and you are so right that sharing makes a difference. Glad to hear your situation has improved. Good luck with everything. 🙂🙂❤️❤️


The Handmaid's Tale was not an instruction manual people!  This just goes to show that they see women as nothing more than walking incubators meant to provide more men and walking incubators.
Capitalism is structural genocide

Something something Orwell "Political language is designed to make lies sound truthful and murder respectable, and to give an appearance of solidity to pure wind."
Ah, i see, you're a man of culture as well
So no birth control, no abortions and no adoptions? Sounds great.
Party like it's 999.
Time to go the Lysistrata way, then...
That's always my first thought when men take the "women shouldn't have sex unless they're prepared to have babies" opinion. Don't you want women to feel free to have sex with you? Do you really want women to approach every sexual encounter with the thought that they first need to be okay with bearing your child?? Don't you like getting laid???
Damn that felt good!

Hey everyone, I'm neither pro-choice or pro-life, I don't think there will ever be a "right" side for this issue. So with that said, in my class, we are studying religion and one of the topics was abortion. I won't name which religion, but some religions allow abortion for unwanted girls since the family would rather have a boy. I was wondering what your thoughts are on this. Should they be allowed to do it or would it be "wrong"?
Hello Pentalift1, This interacts with my views on abortion rights, feminism, and religion. First, as a pro-choice person, I feel like if somebody is pregnant doesn't want to be, I am not going to require them to continue the pregnancy.  I can talk to them about all of the medical reasons, but the expert on them is... them.  It's not my role to judge anybody's reason. Second, as a feminist, I totally judge their reason.  I think every family should be as glad to have a daughter as they are to have a son.  But I'm not going to require any woman to continue an unwanted pregnancy for that reason.  Fixing this issue involves fixing gender inequality, not forcing pregnancies. Finally, regarding religion... religions find a way to allow the powerful what they want.  I think that these examples might demonstrate that such religions are more concerned with enforcing power structures than having a consistent ethical teaching.
Yes I know, religion can affect the power status of men and women. I really do not like the fact that some families would abort a girl for a chance of getting a boy, but who am I to decide for them right? Although it might bother me a bit, it is their choice. Thanks for replying
It'd bother me too.  I would seek to change their choice by changing the culture, not by making their choice illegal.
I don't think that it must be one or the other. For instance, I would say that they should be allowed to do that but that doesn't make it "good". I think that to force a women to remain pregnant is a blatant violation of her property rights in her own body - and as such I don't think we are justified in stopping her from seeking an abortion or having one. But that doesn't mean I think that abortion is a good thing or a responsible choice to make (not necessarily anyway).
Absolutely. I feel as if some people believe that abortion is an evil act. I can understand where they're coming from, since my mother has that mentality since she's religious, I've been able to see both perspectives. I don't there will ever be a "good" and "wrong" for either pro-choice or pro-life. Perhaps it all comes down to law, whatever the law says, then we should proceed with them, if the law says that a woman has the right to decide for her own body, which fortunately is the case for many developed country, then abortion should be allowed. For countries that don't allow it, I really don't know what to say. Different cultures have different values I guess, but I don't know.
Allowed and "wrong" are not opposites, and I think that's pretty important to your question. One is a statement of ability, the other of personal judgement. As an example: I think people should be allowed to euthanize their pets. It's often very difficult for the owner, but they're trying to save their pet from days or weeks of excruciating pain. Taking away this option would cause a lot of suffering for both pets and owners. I also think it's wrong for someone to buy animals and euthanize them as entertainment. It's cruel and serves no purpose. To your specific question, disallowing sex selective abortions would be effectively useless, because if someone wanted one they would just lie about it. You'd have to outlaw abortion, and likely any method of determination of sex before birth, if you wanted to try to accomplish that. Ultrasound machines would become illegal or at the very least strongly controlled, leading to completely unrelated health issues becoming harder to treat. Even drawing blood for lab tests would receive new restrictions and limitations to prevent it from being used for sex selective abortions. So yes, I want abortions to be allowed, even if I or someone else may not like all of their reasons. Because it's not my body, it's theirs.
I apologize I wrote the question a bit quickly, I shouldn't of used the word wrong, I was just curious so I wrote without thinking much. I understand, and you're right it is ultimately their choice. I asked the question since I noticed in class that when the teacher talked about this, a student made a face that showed disgust, so it made interested to see what other people thought of it. Thanks for your reply!
As far as I'm concerned, if you're genuinely trying to learn in good faith, you never have to apologize for a question.
I'm 100% pro-choice. That doesn't mean I have to agree with any and every reason a woman may want an abortion or a with a woman's reasoning for continuing a pregnancy, but I will always support a woman's right to choose what is best for themselves. The thing is, the "wrong" reason for a woman to have an abortion is if she is being pressured into it. I don't think gender selection is a good reason to have an abortion, but I won't say it's wrong. I don't think it's something that happens often in the US either. I don't see it any differently than gender selection during in vitro, which is probably a much more common occurrence in the US. We can't start placing these kinds of restrictions on abortion. No one should be asking a woman why she is having an abortion to begin with, not even the woman's doctor. All they should ask is if she is having it of her own free will and leave it at that. If she WANTS to discuss her reasoning with her doctor or anyone else, that's up to her.
Yes I agree, you shouldn't have to say your reasons behind it, that is confidential. It is a difficult question that I don't think either decision will please everyone. I was just curious to see what people thought of this, it made me think a bit when the teacher talked about it in class. Thanks for the reply!
I agree. I personally disagree with gender-based abortion, but it's her call. In the same way if she decides not to abort a foetus with fatal deformities who will only suffer and die, whilst I think that is unethical too, she has a right to determine what medical treatment she receives and therefore I would not agree with forcing her to abort if she reall does not want to. The only qualifier for me is that she has made this decision of her own free will, although in the latter case I would encourage her to consider her child's future.
It should be allowed. But I think it's shitty to only love your baby if it's a specific sex.
This. I think it's unethical, but it's her body. She gets to say who she allows to inhabit it.
The societal harm caused by allowing such a thing outweighs whatever benefits it might incur to the individual.
Hi. I am pro-choice, but my beliefs on this are a little complex. There are certain reasons I believe are highly unethical, such as aborting because you want to cover up cheating for example, or because the foetus is not the gender you desire. However whilst I disagree with these reasons and consider them unethical personally, it's not my body. Yes, women do sometimes choose to abort for such reasons, and whilst I think that is sad and unethical, and would urge them to consider why they are thinking that way, I also do not support forcing anyone to carry a pregnancy against their will, whether that is because she was raped, or because it's making her ill, or because she just doesn't want a girl. If she has decided it is necessary, whether I think her reasoning is right or wrong, ethical or unethical, it's her say because it's her body. In the same way I don't support forcing abortion either. I don't personally think it's ethical for people to knowingly birth severely deformed or sick babies, who will suffer for life or die soon after birth. However forcing a mother carrying such a foetus to abort is against her bodily rights, and therefore is something I won't support, even if I believe her decision is not ethical.

I'm glad his life is worth living, but it is a non sequitur. The person who was pregnant with him also decided that it was a pregnancy she wanted to carry to term.  That is unrelated to whether or not it is a life worth living.
[removed]
You're on the pro-choice subreddit.  This is a friendly warning that continued posting like you've been doing will get you banned.
I wonder why folks in Colorado, North Dakota and Mississippi don't buy into your extremist views? How does it feel to know your beliefs struck out THREE TIMES IN A ROW, when put to a VOTE?
[removed]
Oh look another religious anti-choicer that wants to force their religious beliefs on women.  How original.  You can keep your misogynistic religious nonsense and we will keep control over our own bodies and futures.
That's why it is wrong to murder the bodies of the unborn. You totally ask those murdered through abortion their opinion on the murder right? (sarcasm)
A woman's uterus is a part of her body, if you agree that women have the same right to control their bodies as men do then you agree that they have the right to control their uterus and what stays or does not stay inside of it.  Embryos and fetuses do not have opinions because they are not sentient beings.  Women on the other hand do actually have opinions and their opinions of what they want done to their bodies, including their uteruses, is the only one that matters.
It's clearly NOT murder. That's LEGAL FACT!
Yep, because laws are always the same as morality. (sarcasm)
I wonder why folks in Colorado, North Dakota and Mississippi don't agree at all with what you call 'morality'? Why did your idea of 'morality' strike out THREE TIMES IN A ROW when put to a VOTE?
It's obvious that people don't always vote for what's right.

Lol now we're at slavery.  First he called us Nazis, then he advocated raping women, and now he is equating abortion to slavery.  Abortion isn't slavery, forcing a woman to continue a pregnancy for nine months and then give birth is slavery.  We're not your slaves, were women and we have the same rights to control our bodies that men have.  You can't turn us into slaves just because you believe in a religion that doesn't see women as autonomous people.
[removed]

Slavery in the United States Slavery in the United States was the legal institution of human chattel enslavement, primarily of Africans and African Americans, that existed in the United States of America in the 18th and 19th centuries after it gained independence and before the end of the American Civil War. Slavery had been practiced in British America from early colonial days, and was legal in all Thirteen Colonies at the time of the Declaration of Independence in 1776. By the time of the American Revolution (1775–1783), the status of slave had been institutionalized as a racial caste associated with African ancestry. When the United States Constitution was ratified (1789), a relatively small number of free people of color were among the voting citizens (male property owners). [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source | ^Donate ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
Preach it, brother!
I'm a big fan of how the people of Iceland have almost eliminated Downs Syndrome.  No one is forced to have an abortion but pregnant people there usually test for Down Syndrome and choose to abort.  No one should be forced to live life like that.  Like other commenters said there is no way to test for the severity of Downs Syndrome and severe Downs Syndrome doesn't just make the victim suffer, it also makes their caregivers and siblings suffer.  They will forever need constant care and their parents aren't going to live forever.  Only the parents can choose what is best for them and their family and they should be left with that choice.
Do you believe in eugenics?
100% optional voluntary eugenics before 28 weeks of fetal development in the uterus is perfectly acceptable.
Kinda like this.
Not at all. Those were race-based, and most importantly they were MANDATORY.
[removed]
I have yet to see a single pro-choicer say that a living person with Downs Syndrome, like the one in the article, should be killed.  A woman voluntarily choosing on her own to abort an abnormal, non sentient fetus is not in anyway similar to Nazis killing living, breathing, sentient human beings and comparing the two degrades the lives of actual people that were killed in the Holocaust.
[removed]
When did ProChoiceVoice say that they were in favor of killing a living, breathing person?  I have not seen a pro-choicer say that anywhere.  Also we are not pro-abortionists, we don't want to force women to get an abortion, we want women to have the right to choose to get an abortion of their own free will.  And we have never preformed an abortion, there is only one doctor that I know of on the sub, not that abortion doctors kill.
[removed]

Nazi eugenics Nazi eugenics were Nazi Germany's racially based social policies that placed the biological improvement of the Aryan race or Germanic "Übermenschen" master race through eugenics at the center of Nazi ideology. Eugenics research in Germany before and during the Nazi period was similar to that in the United States (particularly California), by which it had been partly inspired. However, its prominence rose sharply under Adolf Hitler's leadership when wealthy Nazi supporters started heavily investing in it. The programs were subsequently shaped to complement Nazi racial policies. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source | ^Donate ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
I believe that women should be able to voluntarily choose to continue a pregnancy or not continue a pregnancy for whatever reason they do choose, that includes ending a pregnancy when the fetus is known to have an abnormality.  That isn't eugenics, no one is forcing the woman to get an abortion or not reproduce.
If my wife's fetus had Down Syndrome, I would encourage her to have an abortion.
Exactly. We can test for Down's Syndrome. What we can not test for is the severity of Down's Syndrome. Have you seen someone with severe Down's Syndrome, who can not speak, must wear diapers into their 40s, who can not be schooled, who can not tie their own shoes, & will never be able to do any of those things? I have. To me, there is no greater cruelty than to birth a child like this, when you know that child will outlive you as a parent. How can a child with severe Down's make it on their own once their parents die? Iceland got it right.
Exactly!
If you had Down Syndrome would you wish your parents aborted you?
Yes. I would not want to exist in that state.
What state? This guy in the video seems OK, better than a lot of people in the world without Down Syndrome. Do you mean the people with Down Syndrome running businesses? The ones going to college? Or the people with DS in the paralympics swimming faster than you could ever dream of? Or the body builders with DS who would kick the shit out of you? All of them have purpose to and enjoy their lives. They have relationships, have ups and downs... in their lives. People with DS magically make the world around them happier. Either you have no clue what you are talking about or you are basing your idea of this condition on outdate ideas or a very limited exposure to it.
Not all of them are high-functioning. Many cannot exist in the world on their own.
You said if you had Down Syndrome you would rather of been aborted. I have made the point that having DS does not equal a pointless life without meaning or a life of suffering. So to be direct would you want to be of been aborted if you had DS and were "high-functioning"? Also another point is a lot of the "low-functioning" associated with DS is because previously children with the condition were excluded from normal education and not pushed to same level as their peers. I am a member of many DS parents groups and the vast majority of children today with DS are what your outdated view would consider "high-functioning" because of all the early intervention available today.
[removed]
No, you don't understand living like an animal.
People with Down Syndrome are human.
So are murderers, and yet we have the death penalty. Being human doesn't mean you get to live. More specifically, being human doesn't mean you get to live inside someone else's body without their permission.
Buddy I wish my parents aborted my right now.
I'm glad they didn't.
Why would anyone downvote this? Pro-abortionists are the real neo-Nazis.
Wait so part of his argument is that studying people with Down Syndrome can help use deal with Alzheimers. But we can't look at the effects of the third chromosome 21 without doing medical experiments on the person with Down Syndrome, and that seems wildly unethical. Alternatively, we can do experiments on chromosome 21 without requiring a human host, in which case the person with Down Syndrome is not necessary to the research. So, wtf??? How is human experimentation more ethical than abortion???

As a pro-lifer who approves of “personhood” language, I wouldn’t want the unborn getting registered and all that. There’s just no practical reason for it. Just keep the law as is on that front: citizen at birth.
Really, how is it even possible? What do we do, set up gyno exams at the Social Security Office to verify the 'person' before issuing a SSN? Could you imagine the lines?
If Reps controlled every state, PPFA would’ve been gone and all involved would be executed. And yes, social security numbers for zygotes.
How many SSNs would we lose due to miscarriages?
A lot


"The so-called Heartbeat Protection Act (HR 490) is modeled on a --->failed<--- Ohio Republican attempt to end legal abortion" "King believes the U.S. Supreme Court --->“unconstitutionally decided”<--- Roe v. Wade," This is yet another bone thrown to the deluded, which will never pass constitutional muster.
…except the anti-abortion side can count on Roberts, Gorsuch, Thomas, and Alito. If the GOP manages to replace Ginsburg, Breyer, Sotomayor or Kagan we’re going to see different rulings on any future abortion cases that come before SCOTUS.
Ginsburg, in particular, worries me, due to her age.
Link to podcast episodeFull Disclosure: I’m the host of this podcast, so there is an element of shameless self promotion in this. Having said that, this week’s episode is totally on topic and I thought because so many anti abortion advocates are coming from a religious perspective, a lot of people here might find it interesting to listen to an extended conversation/debate on the topic with zero appeal to a higher power. I'm Pro Choice (I agree with the "gradualist" argument) and begin representing that position around the 17:50 mark.The premise of the podcast is to speak to controversial subjects for half an hour, making the first 15 minutes really softball and the second 15 really contentious. The contentious segment was extended this week because Kelsey wanted to talk about a debate making the rounds on twitter about  the “burning fertility clinic” thought experiment.I’d really appreciate any and all feedback and if you do like the idea of my podcast I wouldn’t discourage you from subscribing on iTunes, Soundcloud, or another RSS client obviously.Previous guest have been Robert Spencer (Jihad Watch) Ali Rizvi (author of The Atheist Muslim) and Karen Straughan (Men’s rights advocate/anti-feminist).
Will add to the to-listen lineup!
Do you think she was serious about saving the embryos v five year old child? It sounded disingenuous.
Well as I said in the podcast, I find it hard to believe any pro-lifers who maintain an embryo/very early pregnancy is equal to a fully developed human are truly serious about that as their actions should be more severe if that many people are being murdered. ...Having said that, she came across as a totally genuine person to me so I do think she believes she believes that. I am skeptical that if the scenario in that thought experiment actually came to fruition and someone ran out of that clinic holding the embryos she wouldn't be horrified by their decision. Like I said during that exchange I was really bemused she would argue that decision was morally ambiguous and struggle to get my head around that way of thinking.
I agree she came off fairly well , she only really slipped when talking about contraceptives such as the IUD, she does seem to genuinely value a two celled zygote more than a person’s bodily autonomy . If i was interviewing her I would want to know how she envisages a US where abortion is illegal. For example Ireland declared abortion illegal in the 80s but had a further refendum  to allow women to travel for them . Would she want the same or should fertile women be forced to pee on a stick before boarding a plane ? . Enjoyed the interview though , and bloody good luck with your academic achievements .
Thanks so much! Yeah there are so many things that would have been good to talk about. I guess from my perspective personhood has always been the core of the debate so that's what I decided to try and hone in on. Bodily autonomy, extreme circumstances and practical implications of a having abortion completely illegal would have all been great to go in to. Thanks again for listening and sharing your thoughts. Much appreciated :)
No problem , we learn by doing. Please feel free to PM if you want any more prochoice views etc. Enjoy your evening:)

Rah, rah.
I don't think anyone should be living in fear, but it certainly makes sense to me that someone who is Catholic would refrain from dating an abortion provider. That's just practical. The values are not aligned and they could never see eye-to-eye on a very important issue.
Takes the side of: Majority of political establishment Mainstream media Multi-billion dollar social media companies Holywood and the entertainment industry Multi-billion dollar medical companies ...so brave
"Takes the side of"? More like has a viewpoint that's not yours but that is shared by the majority of Americans and by an even larger majority of Britons.
Yeah she is so brave.
It does take some courage to continue providing abortion services when there are "pro-life" nuts out there ready and willing to do her harm.
She’s not brave, having an opinion does not make you brave especially when it’s a popular one.
It does take some courage to continue providing abortion services when there are "pro-life" nuts out there ready and willing to do her harm.
Takes the side of: Almost all first world nations and OECD members.
[removed]
Good thing fetuses don't have sentience and women are not forced to carry them.
I love what you do,but it's inappropriate.Goodbye, haiku bot.
My hero.


Even apart from the abhorrence of the general idea, I'm still flummoxed as to how any proponents of such "father's consent" laws expect it to work. Like, okay, you force her to do an in-utero paternity test . . . but unless he's got a criminal background, it's not like the government has a massive DNA database they can check it against.  Any woman could easily say she had a one-night stand with a random stranger.  And if we're going the other way- the idea that any man can lay claim to being the inseminating partner and submit his own DNA to see if it's a match . . . what does that mean for HIPAA?  And if there is no expectation of medical record privacy in the case of sought pregnancy termination, it still begs the question of how any given sexual partner is supposed to know her intentions so he can protest it's his and he wants to force her to carry it to term.  Public message board? I just . . . good grief.
That's not good.
It's unconstitutional, because it's the woman's health and body at risk throughout the pregnancy, not the man's.
Personally I understand why people draw the line when the baby is born alive or has a heart beat. But where do you draw the line and more importantly why?update: do you really feel that way? consider it carefully. If I were pro choice I'd be for the viability rule, and I understand the pro choice point of view.OK, why do you draw the line where you do?
I draw the line when the baby is born and breathing. Otherwise it's not my decision or business. I'm not sure what you're expecting people at a pro choice sub to tell you.
What is the difference then between a baby that is going to be born in two minutes and the baby when it is actually born? Does the birth canal have some magic power to bestow personhood onto a baby?
Yes
Then please explain how that makes someone a person
They are no longer inside someone else's body.
Nothing about the baby actually changed so how does that confer personhood? If you want to argue that the location of a person determined if that person is human then you might as well be arguing black people in the south are property but not in the north.
If the baby is at the point where it can be delivered, nobody's going to preform an abortion. They'll induce labor if the pregnant person doesn't want to be pregnant anymore. And someone else's body isn't just a "location."
I'm not talking about when they perform an abortion I'm trying to figure out when you think the baby becomes a human. You said it's not a human until it is literally born. You're the one who is saying the location of the baby is what determines if it is human  which as I pointed out is no different then saying a black person in the north is a person but in the south is property.
I thought we were talking about personhood? It's always a human. Human sperm + human ovum = human fetus. And like I said, the inside of someone's body is not a "location," there is bodily autonomy involved here.
There is not bodily autotonomy when it comes to another person. The baby inside the woman has a different circulatory system, different blood type, different DNA, and half the time a different sex. Again you admit that the baby is a human yet you deny it's a person based on it's location (yes the uterus is a location) just like slavers did to black people in the south.

That's a pretty false equivalency.  Do you really think you can compare the change in biological function from a child sustaining within a womb and umbilical cord vs breathing on it's own, to an enslavement of people in a region? I mean there are arguments to be had, but this is a pretty terrible analogy, just saying.  It shows your condemnation and skips the logic.
No it really doesn't. It's pointing out that you're dehumanizing both based on personal convienence rather then an actual line where life starts so I'll ask. When is it not ok to kill a baby?
There's a huge difference between a human being born vs a human being moved a couple of miles, but ok.  I'd say it's never ok to kill a baby outside of the womb but it's ok to abort a fetus before 23 weeks because it wouldn't survive on  its own,  and 99% of abortions are done before 23 weeks. After 23 weeks thet could instead try to induce labor bc the child might survive,  so I think they should do that ethically,  but legally i think there shouldn't be a and law prohibiting abortion.
Ok but why should surviving outside the womb determine whether a baby is a human being or not? If I get in a car wreck and need an iron lung to survive then I can't survive without that iron lung like the baby before 23 weeks can't survive without the mother. Am I then no longer human?

My belief: As long as the fetus is dependent on the mother's body for survival, it is parasitical. The mother has the right to control what will happen to her body. It's not about the "personhood" of the fetus -- until the fetus draws its first breath, it's not a person.
I believe that at any point, for any reason, a person should be allowed to remove anything they want from their body. If that means a fetus is being removed from the womb at 8 months then that’s what it means. The difference between an abortion and a birth is when the fetus can survive outside of the womb and I think it should be able to be removed all the way up until it can survive. After that point if you don’t want to be pregnant you induce labor, something we already regularly do. I know exactly what that means and I support it vehemently. The bodily autonomy of people means way, way more to me and should, IMO, be the most fundamental, unshakable right.
How do you possibly gain the "right to bodily autonomy" without first possessing the right to life itself?
Bodily autonomy > right to life. We already have the right to life, so long as it doesn’t effect any ones bodily autonomy. Anything less is advocating for pregnant people to be considered less than a person and is vile.
How did you get to the point where you already have that right? Perhaps you personally weren't intentionally killed in the womb?
Yup. Basically. Like I already said, you get the right to your life up until your life requires using someone else’s body to maintain it. If you cannot survive without my body, tough shit. Also, I’ve had an abortion. I don’t feel guilty. I’ve never felt guilty and nothing you can say will make me feel guilty. I am absolute in my feelings on this. I’m more than happy to explain them but if you want to try and change my mind your doing a really shit job of it.
Abortion is not only a violation of the right to life of the unborn child, but also a violation of the right to bodily autonomy of that child. You seem to paint abortion as merely withholding the use of one's body from the unborn child. This is deeply flawed, abortion is actively taking another human being's life through poisoning or dismemberment.
You have no understanding of bodily autonomy, it seems. I am not using the body of a fetus when removing it from my body. Just the same way I can use deadly force to stop someone from raping or attacking me, I can and will use deadly force on a fetus that uses my body without my permission if I no longer want it there. Removing a fetus from my body is not a violation of their bodily autonomy because, suprise! A fetus isn’t autonomous. I’m not violating its right to life, it is violating my bodily autonomy and it will be removed from me because of that and removal will result in its death. If you attached yourself to my body because you would die without it, I have every right to remove you from my body, as violently as necessary. Just because the way an abortion happens makes you uncomfortable it doesn’t make it suddenly wrong. By all means we can just cut the umbilical cord and slide the fetus out and leave it on a table to die, I don’t care, it’s going to die no matter how we do this and I’m not sorry that hurts your feelings.
I don't understand why this question is being asked on this sub when there's already, on the first page, one asking the exact same thing. Especially considering that the vast majority of abortions take place early on, and women want to get them done sooner rather than later, there's so much more to talk about than hypotheticals about "how late can you go", you know?
At no time do I think abortion is immoral or illegal. The myth that people abort past 20 weeks and destroy a healthy infant is just that -- myth. Yes, there are a very few abortions that happen past 20 weeks, and they are generally extreme situations that involve danger to the health of the fetus or the carrier. Abortions that occur in the 3rd trimester are incredibly rare, and generally involve and infant who is either passing away or will suffer and then pass away shortly after birth. Usually, these infants are very wanted and loved, but for reasons beyond medical intervention and human control, are not viable. What's more, in those cases, this procedure costs anywhere between 15000 and 25000 in cash...so no one is throwing money around and doing that lightly. The carrier and an escort will generally have to take a long journey to find one of the 5 or 6 US doctors that can perform this surgery.  Between travel and accommodation costs, missing work, and the fee for this legal medical procedure, the mental anguish and grief, and the physical effects of both the pregnancy and loss thereof, no one would choose to do this as a "convenience." I have worked as a clinic escort at a clinic in Charlotte, and please believe, this is an emotional experience for most patients. It is not used as casual birth control -- abortion and pregnancy are both hard on the body.
are people just going to keep posting this same question again and again hoping for some bombshell answer they can use in their little Anti-Choice circle jerk?
All the while pretending it's not textbook Catholicism: "2270 Human life must be respected and protected absolutely from the moment of conception." Because you know, if they were forthright about the fact this is all religious belief, there goes any chance of instituting it as law for all, like in the Dark Ages.
Ah-yepp.
For me, personally, I would draw the line at around 24 weeks for an "elective" abortion. But that's if I'M the one getting an abortion. If it's another woman's body, well that's none of my business.
I just came across this thread and I agree with you. These people are fucking nuts.

If it is passed, it will be struck down as unconstitutional, because there is no reason for the law, other than 'abortions are icky.' This chart shows a 5% survival rate outside of the womb for fetus < 21 weeks. This law bans abortion pre-viability. It's most likely a bone tossed to the extremists, because the legislators have to know it won't stand.
Something funny I realized recently. If they were trying to pass the bill with wide appeal, they would call it a 22 week abortion ban, using LMP dating.  That would be easier to pass. On the other hand, if you want to have a conservative show-off-party, you'd call it a 20 week abortion ban, using conception dating.
How are pregnancies generally dated in the medical sphere?
LMP.
LMP.  Which is then adjusted if an ultrasound shows it's way off, but we still use the bonus two weeks.

Im honestly curious. I think I err closer to the classical conservative view on abortion. I don't think, outside of some specific conditions, people should be getting abortions.Not because I believe they are inherently wrong, but I have no idea when a fetus is alive. And I, and I believe most of you, are opposed to actually killing a live child.When does the mass of cells in the womb considered a child and should not be allowed to be aborted? And if you don't mind, what's your logic for your answer?
Considering that almost all late-term abortions are done for medical reasons and not because the mother changed her mind, I don't think there should be any cut off.
I agree. I personally disagree with late term abortion unless it is for exceptional reasons such as to save the life or health of the woman, in the case of previously undetected or cryptic pregnancies, or cases where the child has a severe abnormality or high chances of severe genetic illness. However the majority of abortions take place in the first 12 weeks and after that are almost always for reasons like the ones I've just mentioned. These late-term abortions are almost always very wanted babies and having a late term abortion is in most cases a very difficult and heart breaking decision for the parents to have to make. People don't just skip to the abortion clinic at 30 weeks because they just decided to have an abortion today, these are women who are in most cases have not come to this decision lightly. Regardless of whether I personally think another woman's reasons are ethical or not, it's not my decision.

This doesn't happen, and lying just makes you look stupid. It is really, really difficult to get an abortion past 16 weeks. Most abortion providers won't perform abortions past 12 or 14, and only when the mother's life is at risk. You know, the kind of abortion that this poor woman should have had. Instead, they killed her.  https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Death_of_Savita_Halappanavar Source: am a nurse, have worked with doctors that provide surgical abortions.
Death of Savita Halappanavar Savita Halappanavar, a 31-year-old dentist, originally from India, died on 28 October 2012 at University Hospital Galway in Ireland due to the complications of a septic miscarriage at 17 weeks' gestation. The miscarriage took seven days to unfold, and during that time Halappanavar requested an abortion and was denied one; the medical team did not diagnose the developing sepsis soon enough. When the medical team did diagnose the sepsis and determine that Halappanavar's life was in danger they had planned to administer misoprostol to induce delivery, but the miscarriage completed before they were able to. The sepsis continued developing and she died of cardiac arrest caused by the sepsis.{{rp}22-53}} Her death caused controversy at the time, nationally and internationally, leading to protests and marches. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source | ^Donate ] Downvote to remove | v0.28
That wasn't quite the point. And it does tragically happen from time to time. The point was o provide a thought experiment that proves you only believe life has value if that life is wanted; and that is evil.
See, now you just look really silly. I just told you that it doesn't "tragically happen from time to time," and you're doubling down with nonsense about a thought experiment. I'll say it again. Late term abortion is a) really rare, and b) never performed on a whim. It is typically performed for lifesaving reasons, and accounts for a tiny fraction of all performed abortions. Even trying to find a doctor that is willing to perform a late term is next to impossible - there is only a tiny handful of doctors in Canada, for instance, that will go beyond 20 weeks. You couldn't provide a source when you were asked for one, and now you're trying to claim that this silly conversation is all about conceptualizing. I'd suggest that next time you come to the table with a more coherent argument. And if you're opposed to abortion, this is your choice and you are entitled to your beliefs. But at least educate yourself about the actuality of abortion -  rather than spouting fairytales.
How about you read my original comment again? I think you missed something.
From original comment "So what about the times that the mother does change her mind? Blah blah blah... just a day before it's born? " Oh, no I didn't. Lol.
Here, the bit that you translated as "Blah blah blah":
1 week, 2 week, 20 week, 9 months, the moment it’s conceived, when it’s born? It doesn’t matter when the fetus’s life begins (keeping in mind that from conception a fetus is very much living cells) it absolutely comes down to when the person doesn’t want to be pregnant anymore. At a certain point we call it induced labor. It doesn’t matter though, the moment the person stop consenting to their body being used it needs to go.
Do you have a source on this? Does this actually happen?

You're the one making it a point so again, do you have evidence that this happens often enough to warrant it restricting access to abortions?
No, it wasn't the point. The point is that you believe human life only exists if someone wants it; that is evil.
Aight troll
Classic response when defeated.
Yeaaah, we're going to have to see some evidence if these "people" who decide more than halfway through their pregnancy that they don't want a baby anymore. Have you ever been pregnant? No one wants to go through all that if they're not sure they want a baby (morning sickness, back pain, swollen feet, hemorrhoids?).
Doesn't trump the right to life.


Any attempts to create a legislative cutoff will lead to people not getting the care they need. Who decides whether a woman has a "legitimate" (to you) reason to get an abortion? How long will that decision take? What happens if there's an appeal? If someone is raped, how do they prove it? By the time a rape trial is over, that baby has already been born. Bans against late term abortions also force women who's fetuses are already dead or dying to just wait until they miscarry naturally, rather than let them get a D&E. Doctors don't just perform late term abortions on anyone who asks, willy nilly (see the film After Tiller for one example). This is why pro-choice people say it's a decision that should be between a woman and her doctor. Because they are the people that have the knowledge and the responsibility, not legislators.
Absolutely. Not all foetuses develop in a way that is viable with life. Some will spontaneously miscarry as the pregnancy progresses. Some will go full term only to be stillborn. Others will live very short pain-filled lives and then others still will be born and survive only to endure a lifetime of suffering and anguish. Many parents too would do anything possible ro alleviate their child's suffering, in many cases it's kindest for the BABY too, to not allow it to continue to develop.
What about, "I do not want to be pregnant". That is the only reason a woman needs to give.
Never.  No one should make medical decisions for  any woman besides herself and her doctor.

By law and science it's not a child
By science it is human
Lol ok. Good luck forcing women into childbirth slavery. You must love a Handmaid's Tale.
It's not slavery, which for the sake of reply length I won't get into but if you want I can.  I've also never read a Handmaids Tale nor do I like the premise because I believe that everyone has fundamental rights. I also really like science and don't like people citing it falsely.
Ok so what do you call forcing women to risk their lives to carry a fetus and give birth, exactly?
A law meant to preserve human life. Slavery requires someone to be the property of another which isn't the case here. Women are not being told exactly what they must do in every regard but rather we would restrict doctors from carrying out a certain procedure just as we prevent doctors from performing assisted suicide or very unsafe/detrimental procedures.
What? Women are absolutely being told what to do and being treated as fetus  incubators. What about preserving the actual human woman's life? Abortions are safe when carried out by a doctor. Banning abortions will not stop them. It will increase the amount of women dying from blood loss or massive infection from back alley procedures. What I do with my uterus is none of your damn business. You won't change anyone's mind here, so why come to a sub that infuriates you? Run back to the anti-choice sub and circle jerk there.
I never said I was pro life. In fact I am completely fine with abortion when the mothers life is at risk. My issue is with people who go radical on the issue, on both sides, and phrase things in the worst and not entirely accurate way in order to come across as morally superior because it only makes the divide worse.
I’m sorry, but, what? You make fun of him for trying to have a conversation then tell him to leave your fragile opinion alone so you can have your circle jerk back and so can this guy.


lol you're cute. Good luck tying women down and forcing them to risk their lives!
Lol what? You're either misunderstanding or misrepresenting what I'm saying. I hope it's the former but suspect it's the latter. If you can't back up your own opinion with your reasonings you need to take a good hard look at yourself in the mirror.

Baby boy? Sure. At birth. You want to force women to give birth? Will you chain them down?

So you'll chain a woman down and force her to risk her life to give birth

Genocide! Lol! You need medication.
Ok well let's rephrase it so it doesn't look as bad on you: "You literally advocate for the killing of tens of millions of innocent people"
To be fair genocide and killing a lot of people of a group aren't the same thing.

I don't force women to give birth. It's a woman's body and none of my business.

Loooool It's not infanticide if the fetus isn't born and breathing.  It has the POTENTIAL to be a person. Making it to full term doesn't mean it will absolutely be born alive. Any woman who has had a still birth can tell you there are no guarantees. So good luck with strapping women down and FORCING them to give birth. Why are you even here? You won't change anyone's mind. Stop arguing- it's pointless. We gave our opinions.
What a ridiculous position, and im prochoice. Nothing pisses me off more than that "Im right because [incredible simplification of the discussion]" attitude.
What? You're agreeing that being pro choice is equal to being for infanticide? I never said i want people to have late term abortions. I did say that it's none of mine or anyone else's business. It's a choice between a woman and her doctor.
If it can survive on its own, it's not an abortion, it's a birth.
So long as they baby is in her body isn't there an argument that it's life or death is subject to her decision?
It's a person at birth, not before. This is a well recognized concept, which is why the idea of fetal personhood is rejected when put to a vote. Extremists do claim a person exists at conception, but the one factor that distinguishes humans from all other animals is our brain. How can a person exist at conception given the SCIENTIFIC FACT there is no developed human brain at conception? If a person does in fact exist prior to birth, as some extremists claim, why can't those extremists determine what the punishment for murder should be, if women have abortions? Usually, the punishment for murder is the death penalty or life in prison, yet the extremists who claim abortion is murder, can't quite seem to figure that out. By their answers, they trivialize murder, or have inflated the value of zygotes, embryos or fetuses, since they DON'T believe women who abort should be penalized for murder, because they know damn well zygotes, embryos & fetuses aren't persons.

The article discusses the rejection of proposed fetal personhood laws in two states, both Colorado & North Dakota. We've no reason to believe this is an aberration. Had those laws passed, pregnant women who had a glass of wine with dinner could have been arrested for providing alcohol to a minor. You see, if we take a given line of thought to its logical conclusion, the end result can tell us whether that line of thought is rational and sane, or not. Me neither, because what is and is not a person is already established in the Constitution. In 47 of 48 uses of the word 'person' found in the Constitution, it is QUITE clear what is and is not a person. It's how we know zygotes, embryos and fetuses aren't persons with constitutional rights. They suffer from a cognitive distortion known as dichotomous reasoning, seeing abortion in black and white terms. That's extremist, as well as an irrational thought pattern, by definition. Yet, there is no sentience at that age, because there is no DEVELOPED brain, as I said. Sentience is a trait of personhood. In pointing out the irrationality of prolife thinking, I've informed you of why I reject it, which answers the question in your OP, "what's your logic for your answer?" Only if you agree a pregnant woman who has a glass of wine at dinner should be arrested for providing alcohol to a minor, because that's where fetal personhood laws lead us, which perfectly demonstrates the irrationality of the prolife belief that a person exists at conception.
If you want to argue sentience as the making of personhood than why can't I kill a 2 month old baby since I'm pretty sure they also don't have sentience?
Except I haven't. I've been quite clear personhood is recognized at birth & not before. Only extremists claim numerous 'persons' can fit in a petri dish, but that's solely due to their irrational definition of 'person.' What definition of sentience are you using here? And you can't kill a 2 month old baby, since personhood is recognized at birth, unless you don't mind losing years of your freedoms to a murder charge.
You seem about as balanced as Fox News. Most women don't know they are pregnant at 5 or 6 week. The "baby" looks like a round sac of cells. It's not a person or anything even close to it.
I don't think I ever claimed to be balanced. I have my stance. I'm asking for the opposing sides viewpoint. So that I can analyze my own, with different perspectives. You can't grow as a person unless you're constantly challenging your own views on things right?
It seems that when we talk about a "cut-off point" it is because we are envisioning a live birth of a healthy baby. Most late term abortions happen because the child cannot survive, or there is a danger to the carrier. We also talk about the idea that personhood begins at birth...but for a stillborn baby, or for a child that lives, suffering, for a short time before passing away, this is a fleeting thing -- they never develop personality, identity, etc. I've seen a lot of things at the clinic I am a clinic escort for, but I have never, NEVER, seen a biological mother past 30 weeks terminate a perfectly normal, healthy pregnancy. Generally, a parent in that situation (having to have a late-term abortion) wanted that child dearly, and is grieving when the pregnancy must end for reasons beyond human control.
Exactly. These aren't women saying "hey I know I'm 6 months gone, but fuck it, I'm going to have an abortion today". These are almost all very wanted babies, and devastated parents who've had to make a heart breaking decision.
Well I don't necessarily mean to talk specifically about late term abortion. I was just curious when people who are pro-choice thought personhood starts. And babies with congenital diseases or defects that would cause the child to have very low quality of life are what I would consider a good candidate for an abortion for sure, as well as rape and health concerns for the mother, like ectopic pregnancy etc.
I love babies, I do..but personhood...that seems like a BIG thing to shoulder for someone that really has no faculties at all. Once you are born, your little human life has started, but it does take quite a while to develop personality, thought processes, independence, and individuality. Coincidentally, are you aware that any abortion after 20 weeks is rare, and at the 8 or 9 month point, when we think they have the best chance of viability, those medical procedures cost between $15,000 and 25,000 which must be paid in cash. This doesn't go to the doctor's pocket, but goes to facilities, staff, nurses, anesthesia, etc. Few people, if any, are going to have that kind of cash -- so if someone gets monetarily set, finds one of the 5 or 6 US doctors who can do this surgery, and gets there, it is not being done lightly, wantonly, or unadvisedly.
At birth. It's our societal norm. It's why you won't be arrested for mass murder if you flush a petri dish full of embryos down the toilet. They aren't persons, so there are no murders. The overwhelming majority of our society knows a person can't fit in a petri dish. The only ones who don't know it are extremists on the outermost fringes of society.
https://www.rcog.org.uk/globalassets/documents/guidelines/rcogfetalawarenesswpr0610.pdf Consciousness seems to begin at birth.  I go with birth.
What exactly is it by sliding down a mother's vagina that you believe a fetus (magically?) gains full consciousness and by your logic, the right to life?
Lol. Arguing with a medical doctor. "The Bible knows better!"
If he/she's really a medical doctor, it should be pretty easy for them to explain how a fetus magically gains full consciousness by the process of exiting his/her mother's body. And secondarily, explain what relevance at all that consciousness has on our right to life.
Because it starts to breathe? A woman has a right to life. She's already alive, breathing, has people relying on her (perhaps other children), a life she's worked hard to build. According to you, however,  the rights of the unborn fetus inside her has more of a right to live, whether the fetus has a condition incompatible with life or the carrying/birth of the fetus will result in the mother's death.
Lol. What side am I supposed to believe is the anti-science one again? From Psychology Today That's an absurd position to hold to tolerate abortion up until birth, which even the most intellectually honest and ardent pro-choice supporters would dismiss.
Move over, RCOG!  This guy has a Psychology Today quote.  Better throw that review article away!
It's explained in detail in the link I posted.
Your question without the snark and overstatement is answered in detail in the link that I posted.
From Psychology Today
Just to be clear here, I posted a review article by a governing body of a relevant specialty.  You replied with a lay press article. This is an honest question, outside of the context of any personhood debate: are you aware that publications have a hierarchy of validity?
And why does your definition of "personhood" rely on a human being that is conscious?
I'm not really getting your "and why," there.  It seems like you've pivoted to a completely different approach.  More of a "tangentially, why..." than an "and why...". My definition doesn't rely on a human being that is conscious. I've answered your question, will you answer mine?
People in a coma are not conscious, they cannot perceive pain. By your definition they can be poisoned, dismembered, killed at will.
Wait a minute.  I just told you that my definition doesn't rely on a human being that is conscious.  Did you read that?  That thing that you replied to? Because it really seems like you didn't read it. Are you like this in all conversations?  Just realigning it to be the conversation you want, while ignoring what the other person says? Still waiting for you to answer my question.
This sentence alone discounts everything else they may say. Human gestation doesn't last 52 weeks. Average human gestation is 40 weeks, but anything between 37-42 weeks is considered "normal".
What? A month isn't 10 weeks.
"So I'm neither pro choice or pro life, but I'm gonna go ahead and make a bunch of comments that are obviously pro life."
I think the cut off should be when the doctor no longer thinks it would be medically safe to do it.
Never. We are talking about a medical procedure here. The people making the decision should be a woman, her doctor, and anyone the woman decides to bring into her decision. It doesn't matter if the fetus is a person or not. What matters is whether it has permission to camp out in someone else's body.
For me the cut off point is about 25 weeks. At around this point two things happen that make a foetus a human being in my personal view. Firstly the foetus becomes self-aware and capable of feeling pain. Secondly the foetus becomes viable around this time and capable of surviving independently of the woman's body. A foetus must be both self aware AND viable for me to see it as a human being. Before this point I view abortion as acceptable for absolutely any reason the woman deems necessary. There are some reasons I disagree with, but it is her body, her choice. After this point my views are more complicated. I personally disagree with abortion after about 26 weeks, unless in exceptional circumstances such as to save the woman's life or health, in the case of previously undetected or cryptic pregnancies, if the foetus is discovered to have severe abnormalities that mean it will likely suffer and/or die young, or if the foetus has a high chance of suffering from a severe genetic illness. I do believe a woman should have the right to terminate the PREGNANCY beyond this point, as I do believe no one should have to share their body against their will, even with their own child, especially in such an invasive and potentially dangerous way, however I do personally see a foetus as a person at this point and therefore believe that where possible, unless doing so would harm or threaten the woman, it should be removed or delivered alive and unharmed. Whilst I may disagree with someone having a very late term termination for reasons I personally deem unethical, I also understand it is not my body or my choice and would never try and stop anyone getting an abortion. If they believe it is necessary, that's their choice.
I agree with the 24/25 week cut off. Viability is at 24 weeks and even first time mothers start feeling movement around 20-22 weeks. The fetus being viable is the biggest thing for me. It’s still not my place to tell someone what to do to their body, but in an attempt to compromise with anti abortion people I could see 24 weeks being the cut off.
First of all, there's no need to compromise. Women don't just decide at 24+ weeks that they are going to go get an abortion just because they don't want to be pregnant any more. That doesn't happen, so compromising is nothing more than letting the other side come up with a "solution" when there isn't a problem to begin with. An abortion after 24 weeks isn't something that's easy to get either. They are very expensive, very few doctors will do them and the ones that do, don't do it on a whim. Secondly, it endangers women's lives. As it is, abortions after 24 weeks are only done in cases where the fetus is abnormal and it wasn't detected until late in the pregnancy, the fetus has died and the mother wants to have it removed instead of waiting to go into labor and deliver a dead child that was very much wanted or the mother's life is in danger if the pregnancy continues. The decision is between the woman and her doctor and it needs to stay that way. If we let people start interfering with that for any reason, especially just for the sake of compromise, it will delay women being able to receive a legal medical treatment recommended by her doctor and it can compromise her health.
I tend to say around the 15th trimester. Prior to that it's unlikely to have much of anything worthwhile to contribute to a conversation. Mostly it's just not my business as a male. Healthcare decisions should remain confidential between patient and Doctor.
15th trimester?
Yeah, when they finally have a sort of personality. I bet if 15th trimester abortions were allowed lots of sociopaths would have been dropped from the gene pool
Up to 6 months, and then late term abortions in cases of need (rape, incest, fetal anomaly, mother's mental and physical health, etc.)
Until about 2 years of age - that's when humans become self-aware, and therefore that's when a person is created in the brain. (Maybe keep it down to one year of age, to be absolutely certain.)
Conception



Abortion is wrong because it takes away the potential of a human life,Not combining all of our sperm and egg cells takes away the potentials of many human lives,Therefore we should combine all of our sperm and egg cells so that no potential human lives will be lost.It's showing that if you think human life is valuable enough to not kill it in the embryo stage, then you shouldn't kill any sperm or egg cells either because they could potentially produce human lives if they were combined.
No, because the pro-abortion argument isn't: but is in fact: Once the zygotes have fused he fetus is, scientifically speaking, a human life; it is human.
Some of the pro-choice arguments do come from the idea of preserving a potential human life. So, your main arguments might not revolve around that idea, but this is for those who's main arguments do.
They very rarely do. We often talk about "potential" when pro-choicers try to dehumanise the baby by calling it "just a cluster of cells" or a "parasite", or saying that it hasn't experienced 'life' yet. But we don't say the baby isn't alive, we follow the science.
So, you still do use the potential argument? Ok, so what would you say to the idea that sperm and eggs can potentially create a thinking, feeling human being, so we should combine all the sperm and eggs we can? Yeah lol. I hope no one's saying the baby/fetus isn't alive. That's just stupid. In my opinion, it's just that it isn't worth what a human with thoughts and feelings is worth. I would equivocate a fetus to a brain dead patient, or at least a blind, deaf, purely habitual/environmentally-reacting and not yet thinking individual.
Not the one you were describing. I don't agree. They aren't human life. Life begins at conception (we say it enough). I agree. And I would say most pro-lifers nowadays would too. Which is why I am OK with abortions to save the mothers life. However just because we accept the superiority of life after-birth than life at 20 weeks in a womb, doesn't mean that life at 20 weeks in the womb is worthless. What about someone who is severely handicapped, or what about someone who is sleeping? Is it ok to kill them? Are they completely worthless?
Why is the cell suddenly worth something now that the sperm and egg have combined? Are you implying a religious argument, like a soul enters this new body or something? How is a human fetus worth more than the mother's desire to abort it/pain and physical mental toil of the fetus' development and birth, and how do you determine that? I don't think we can know for sure how the mentally handicapped think or whether some of them even think at all, but I wouldn't want them killed because I don't know. We do know however that fetuses don't think and are not conscious. A sleeping person still has memories and thoughts and consciousness that is temporarily suppressed. Fetuses don't. At least not on a conscious level. That's why I don't think it's ok to kill a person in a coma, but I say it's fine if they are brain dead.
No, this is strictly scientific. When two zygotes form it is now a human. It is now worth something because it is human. When do you think human life begins? How is this even a question? THE BABY IS A HUMAN LIFE. How is your life worth more than my desire to stab you? (I don't have a desire to stab you). MY right to swing my fist ends at the tip of your nose. Would you rather me kill you or would you rather me put you through a bit of pain that literally billions of people have lived with and is part of our natural process. The fact of the matter is that the murder of literally the most innocent among us is far worse than giving birth. Not strictly true. Fetuses can frown at just a few weeks. What about a person with dementia who has forgotton everything? Can I stab them? So you would never kill a person in a coma even if they will never wake up? What about a person who is brain dead but in a few weeks time won't be? Would you pull the plug on someone if you knew they would wake up in a few weeks?
The sperm and egg are human. If put together they will create a human. They both have the potential to create a human. I don't see how either is more valuable than the other. It depends on what you mean by "human life". If you mean cellular processes, than I think human cellular processes started occurring hundreds of thousands of years ago, but if you mean individual human life then I'm not sure. It could be when the two gametes are first made, or when the two are fused to create one cell, or when conscious thought begins. Either way, again I don't see one being inherently more valuable than the other minus the conscious thought phase. Is the murder of an innocent wrong if that innocent has no consciousness or thoughts or feelings or emotions, just the potential to become such a being? If I was aborted I would have had no opinion on the matter. I wouldn't have developed thought or feeling on the subject. I would never have been. I couldn't have regretted what I never would have been. Show me a paper that says frowning in fetuses is a sign of thought or consciousness, or even emotion. If a person with dementia had forgotten everything to the point of acting like an animal, I think they would want to die. Not feel pain, but die. If I knew they would never wake up then sure. I don't think a person can come back from brain death, but if they could than no, again because that person still has thoughts and consciousness that is temporarily offline. No. See above.
I'm sorry but they aren't. This is basic biology. The dorm and egg do not carry the chromosomes to be considered human until they have fused, until the egg is fertilised. Exactly! So the baby is a human life. That doesn't make the sperm and egg human though. They do yes. But that doesn't make them a human. Just because something can make something else, it doesn't make it that something else. An engine helps make a car, that doesn't mean the engine is a car. I mean individual. Above you just said that sperm and eggs are human though? You aren't being consistent. It is when they are fused, this is just high school biology, this isn't subjective it is categorical. Yes. Holy shit. Can I stab you in your sleep? Can I stab someone in a coma who I know is going to wake up in a few weeks? Can I stab a baby 5 minutes before it is born? What about 2 second after it is born? When it hasn't drawn its first breath yet? Can I stab the baby then? You wouldn't have an opinion on the matter if I killed you in your sleep. Or killed you when you were a day old. Or killed you when you were in a coma. You think that? It isn't your choice. You aren't god. You can't just kill someone because of how you feel. You don't get to choose that. Ok good. That baby will have thoughts and processes in just a few weeks if left to its natural processes. It will wake up. It will be a fully functioning human. We know this. Why are you taking all that opportunity and life time away from someone just because of how you feel?
I did write a reply but I don't even see it on this page o-o This is a test. So this doesn't become even longer, I'm just going to try to answer what I think are the most important points. If you think I should have answered something else please tell me. I'm sorry but they aren't. This is basic biology. The dorm and egg do not carry the chromosomes to be considered human until they have fused, until the egg is fertilised. They still are human. There not one human cell yet, but they were produced by a human, each carry half of a human set of chromosome, and will create a human when combined. They do yes. But that doesn't make them a human. Just because something can make something else, it doesn't make it that something else. Even if you are right, I still don't see how one human cell is worth more than two human gametes. What magically give the cell such a value? Yes. Holy shit. Can I stab you in your sleep? Can I stab someone in a coma who I know is going to wake up in a few weeks? Can I stab a baby 5 minutes before it is born? What about 2 second after it is born? When it hasn't drawn its first breath yet? Can I stab the baby then? I already answered the first two. But it's trickier for the babies that have just been born. If no one wants them and you can kill them painlessly then I see no more harm being done than in killing an animal, as they still don't have thoughts, emotional feeling, or consciousness. They react according to input. But, if someone (primarily the mother) wants to keep them alive then of course not. You wouldn't have an opinion on the matter if I killed you in your sleep. Or killed you when you were a day old. Or killed you when you were in a coma. I would in my sleep, I wouldn't if I were a day old, and I might if I was in a coma. Depends on the amount of brain damage. You think that? It isn't your choice. You aren't god. You can't just kill someone because of how you feel. You don't get to choose that. I wouldn't choose for them to die. I don't know what they actually think. I'm just saying if I were in their situation I would want to die. Ok good. That baby will have thoughts and processes in just a few weeks if left to its natural processes. It will wake up. It will be a fully functioning human. We know this. The baby doesn't have any thoughts and processes now though, and that's my point. It has no proceeding consciousness or thoughts. So, it isn't wrong to kill it, as it's basically a body. Why are you taking all that opportunity and life time away from someone just because of how you feel? Sounds like the potential argument to me. They aren't someone yet, so I don't see a problem with taking what they aren't away from them. And if that's wrong, then shouldn't we combine every sperm and egg because they are potentially a human? Ok, nevermind this is just as long... There must be something we can do to shorten it. I hate getting into these long ass comment wars. EDIT: ok this is weird, it's not letting me copy my and paste my response like I had it.


Why not?

[Moore, Keith L. Essentials of Human Embryology. Toronto: B.C. Decker Inc, 1988, p.2] [Sadler, T.W. Langman's Medical Embryology. 7th edition. Baltimore: Williams & Wilkins 1995, p. 3] [Langman, Jan. Medical Embryology. 3rd edition. Baltimore: Williams and Wilkins, 1975, p. 3] [O'Rahilly, Ronan and Muller, Fabiola. Human Embryology & Teratology. 2nd edition. New York: Wiley-Liss, 1996, pp. 8, 29.] [Carlson, Bruce M. Patten's Foundations of Embryology. 6th edition. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1996, p. 3] [Moore, Keith L. and Persaud, T.V.N. Before We Are Born: Essentials of Embryology and Birth Defects. 4th edition. Philadelphia: W.B. Saunders Company, 1993, p. 1] [Jonathan Van Blerkom of University of Colorado, expert witness on human embryology before the NIH Human Embryo Research Panel -- Panel Transcript, February 2, 1994, p. 63] [Larsen, William J. Human Embryology. 2nd edition. New York: Churchill Livingstone, 1997, p. 17]

It's like I'm listening to some conservative who uses whatever wacky mental gymnastics they can to ignore overwhelming scientific consensus on an issue. The unique combination of DNA that formed me happened at the moment of conception. A different sperm would have meant that a different individual would have formed, not me. I owe my existence, as we all do, to a unique combination of DNA formed at a fixed point in time: at the moment of conception. When a specific egg and a specific sperm join a specific unique individual is formed. After, there is simply growth and development, up until the point in your life where you are reading this.

Not at all convinced with your rebuttals. When does a human life begin in your view? What reputable sources do you have to back up that view? The only starting point of a human life is conception, any other point anti-science pro-choicers use (start of brain functioning, start of consciousness, start of heartbeat, birth, etc.) are all vague, arbitrary points in someone's life. You should be aware that plenty of intellectually honest pro-choicers will readily acknowledge the scientific fact that a human life begins at conception/fertilization. I guess I shouldn't hold all of them to that standard.


I wouldn't say a great pro-choice argument, per se- more like a rebuttal to the anti-abortion arguments. And honestly, it really depends on how one views an embryo.  If it's solely as potential, you're absolutely right.  But most people who are opposed to abortion tend to believe that an embryo is fundamentally different than a spermatozoa or ovum, and holds worth where the latter does not.  For them, the argument's not going to hold.
The argument is partly supposed to show how ridiculous is it to say that an embryo holds more value than a separate sperm and egg, as the sperm and egg simply have to be combined to form an embryo. Maybe I should just ask if an embryo is equivalent to a sperm and an egg, and if not then why not.


This article provides a bit more information as to what occurred in this case. Essentially, the case originated in Texas. The government has been stalling this young lady's abortion, by refusing to transport her to get the abortion, even though the young lady has met all legal requirements to obtain an abortion. Note, the government had no issue whatsoever transporting the young lady to a CPC, in the hopes of brainwashing her choice to birth. My favorite quote from the judge: "Why is the fact that this is an abortion any different than if she was getting her tonsils out?”
What does the government plan to do with the child she can't support after forcing her to keep it? Oh yeah, they don't care, it's her problem. Oh but they so kindly offer this: Sorry, we're keeping you in custody and forcing you to go through pregnancy but we'll find some random person to hold your hand. Problem solved!! Nice!
They tried to argue that she had a right to choose an abortion, but not a right to have an abortion.

I'm hoping this will become standard practice in the UK now. It got such overwhelming support from the councillors, the only real opposition could come from the "protesters" themselves I think. As someone pointed out in the comments, the UK public supports abortion, parliament supports it, and local councils support it. I just hope we don't get the same divisive rhetoric that exists in the US.
There are calls for Birmingham to implement something similiar. http://www.birminghampost.co.uk/news/news-opinion/comment-time-move-anti-abortion-13779420
Wouldn't spraying someone with voodoo water be considered an assault in the US? I would hope so. I'd rather the crazies keep their voodoo to themselves and have the right to prosecute if they didn't. The first few words of the above quote pretty much sums it up. Saying 'abortion is evil" is known as a cognitive distortion (exaggerated or irrational thought pattern). Specifically, it is a cognitive distortion of all-or-nothing thinking, also known as dichotomous reasoning. So they don't just appear to be crazy. They really are crazy, due to their exaggerated and irrational thought patterns. It's no wonder they are being forced into buffer zones, given they are crazily assaulting random people walking by with their voodoo water. Good. I hope the same happens in the US.
Hmmmm... could somebody possibly offer me a better defense of this move? I'm generally against limits on free speech, and it's hard to see how this offers a compromise, where protestor can still make their voice heard.
A right to free speech does not mean you have a right to an audience. Those entering the clinic have a right to NOT listen to delusional prolife trolls, should they so choose.
They are on public land though, not private. No they don't.
The right to free speech is a restriction on government from censoring your speech. It does not guarantee an audience. I have no legal obligation to listen to delusional prolife trolls outside of clinics, crazy street preachers who went off their meds, or the KKK when they march downtown on public land. It is 100% legal for me to wear ear plugs & NOT listen to the speech of the crazys, even on public land.
So if the government said "You are not allowed to protest anywhere on this land", then that isn't restricting freedom of speech? You don't have to hear them out, no of course not, but they have a right to be there and that is what matters. That is a wonderful solution, glad we can agree.
It's a restriction on harrassing women. Did you read the article? Speech and harrassment are not the same thing, particularly in cases of preventing women from exercising their legal right to enter the clinic. The problem is they aren't just being there. They are harassing women, preventing them from exercising their legal right to enter the clinic. In other words, the buffer zone is the direct result of the protestors failing to behave themselves and respect the legal rights of others. '
Oh you weren't calling it harassing earlier, it looks like you've changed you angle. Harassment is against the law. Speech is not. What they have done is a "buffer zone", which will prevent harassment and speech. Stop arguing from emotion, accept that this is anti-free speech.
The article discusses the harassment. Later troll. You are as disingenuous as the protesting trolls discussed in the article.
One person's rights end where another's begin. They aren't just protesters. They are protesting with the intent to harass. If they were just trying to make their voices heard, they would be protesting at the busiest street corner they could find, not at a tucked away clinic where they only people that will see them are coming and going from the clinic. That harassment infringes upon the rights of those entering the clinic. No one is limiting the protesters right to free speech because they never had the right to use it to harass others to begin with.
It’s a compromise as they can still protest or have their vigil as they, prefer to describe it, but not infront of the clinic. Visitors to the clinic will be able to avoid them .

I wouldn't freak out yet. I haven't seen a reputable news source for this
As a thought experiment, if it did pass what would you think would happen? I am English so would value an American citizen's take on it.
Well this is a pro choice sub, so obviously I think it's shit
What i am getting it, as do you think there would be riots, public disobedience, etc. From an international standpoint, prochoice countries would condemn it.
Of course there would
This won't fly. The Constitution covers persons, not fetuses. Not only was that ruled in the last century, there have been numerous rulings which rely on the precedent. Here's the problem: The word 'person' is used 48 different times in the Constitution. Of those 48 times where the word 'person' appears, only one instance could POSSIBLY apply to fetuses, which is the 'right to life.' Since 47 of 48 instances where the word 'person' appears in the Constitution are clearly addressing what we all know persons are, it becomes clear the Constitution was never meant to address fetuses. For the loons who want fetuses to be recognized as persons, the only way to do that is to overturn the Constitution itself. And some shady fetal 14th amendment won't do that. What it will do is scam the loons, which is the only reason it exists.

Would you have the US tax payer pay for everyone's abortions around the world?
The teenager that sparked this story paid for her own abortion.  Though the US government did waste a lot of taxpayer money going to court to try to deny her an abortion.
Greetings all. I am just a lurker wondering if anyone of you have heard of the EEG argument on when a human being begins. I think it serves to really further the scientific end of our case. Basically, it states that a human being is not formed till higher brain activity. As quoted by the JM Goldenring the original author of this idea: "The brain enables our body, our mind, our personality. The brain is the only unique and irreplaceable organ in the human body, as the orchestrator of all organ systems and the seat of personality. Thus, the presence or absence of brain life truly defines the presence or absence of human life in the medical sense. When viewed in this way, human life may be seen as a continuous spectrum between the onset of brain life in utero until the occurrence of brain death. “At any point, human tissue or organ systems may be present, but without the presence of a functional human brain, these do not constitute a 'human being', at least in a medical sense.” https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/4078859Now at what point would we say the fetus has reached significant brain activity to be considered a human being so to say? Numerous Scientists have put it at around 28 to 32 week as this when the fetus develops significant brain function that differentiates us from animals.http://www.nytimes.com/1975/05/09/archives/fetal-brain-said-to-live-at-28-weeks-role-of-the-brain-studies.html http://articles.latimes.com/1990-03-19/local/me-476_1_brain-stemSo basically based on this idea we can see that the fetus reaches the brain birth criteria to become a human being at around 28 to 31 weeks. Now if we look at Abortion Data we will find that abortions happening beyond 21 weeks represent less than 1.3% of abortions. I would wager that abortions happening in the 28-31 week range are literally non-existent and the abortions that do happen this far are almost always of the case where the mother's life is in danger, or they are medically necessary. https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/ss6410a1.htm http://reason.com/blog/2016/10/21/late-term-abortions-in-america-2016I could elaborate more, but what do you all think? Is this a reasonable argument we can add to our arsenal along with the concept of bodily autonomy? I certainly think so based on the science behind it.EDIT: After almost a week Pro-Lifers have still failed to provide even one source that backs up their position that life begins at conception. The EEG argument seems to hold up against all objections.
I think you might enjoy the following Richard Dawkins quote from The Blind Watchmaker. "The director of a zoo is entitled to "put down" a chimpanzee that is surplus to requirements, while any suggestion that he might "put down" a redundant keeper or ticket-seller would be greeted with howls of incredulous outrage. The chimpanzee is the property of the zoo. Humans are nowadays not supposed to be anybody's property, yet the rationale for discriminating against chimpanzees is seldom spelled out, and I doubt if there is a defensible rationale at all. Such is the breathtaking speciesism of our Christian-inspired attitudes, the abortion of a single human zygote (most of them are destined to be spontaneously aborted anyway) can arouse more moral solicitude and righteous indignation than the vivisection of any number of intelligent adult chimpanzees! ... The only reason we can be comfortable with such a double standard is that the intermediates between humans and chimps are all dead."
Conversely, Dawkins might well simply be constructing an argument that we should treat animals better.  I know what he's saying, but if he's suggesting that we should treat humans more like animals, I'd prefer that we treat animals more like humans, if certain animals have more human attributes than we might have previously believed.
True, but if you look at Dawkins other comments regarding abortion he is prochoice . Interesting the medical profession is also prochoice by a large majority http://medicaleconomics.modernmedicine.com/medical-economics/news/clinical/obstetrics-gynecology-womens-health/abortion-right-or-outrage
I apologize.  I did know he's pro-choice.  I was just suggesting his argument could be looked at in another way.
right, but a claim of speciesism is a specious argument,  Dawkins isn't a philosopher and in fact a bit philosophically naive. There's nothing intrinsically immoral about valuing the species that you belong to over any other.
I have read the novel, and I can see how it pertains, but one of the key components of the Brain Birth criterion is that the 28-32 weeks in fetal development is what separates are neural reasoning from animals. Before that point, we are no better than lower reptiles. Read more about the EEG idea here: http://articles.latimes.com/1990-03-19/local/me-476_1_brain-stem/2
This is a bad argument and misrepresents the prolife view. You do not need a brain to be alive. That's just basic biology. Bacteria are alive. Trees are alive. Flowers are alive. None of these things have a brain. An embryo is also alive. That is a biological fact. The difference between an embryo and the bacteria, trees and flowers is that embryos are also human and distinct organisms.
Do you think ending the life of one of these things is on par with killing a human being? What makes an embryo a unique and distinct organism? Mere possession of the genetic material for a future human being does not make a human being. The developing embryo that becomes a fetus that becomes a baby is the product of a dynamic interaction with its environment in the womb, it's postnatal experiences, and a host of other factors. A purely genetic description of the human species does not describe a human being. A human being represents a whole other level of organization, as distinct from a simple embryo as an embryo is distinct from an egg and sperm. It is the dynamics between genes, environment and the EEG criterion that make a human being. Source: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/4078860
An embryo functions as a whole before it develops a brain. That's what makes it a distinct organism. It is because of this organized function that an embryo grows to develop a brain in the first place. No.
An embryo may function but so do other life forms. Just saying something is a distinct organism does not necessarily make it a human being. And you said "No" to my previous question. Yet you have not provided a scientific distinction that separates the two ideas.
Not it doesn't. You can be a distinct organism of any species. Being human is a genomic quality which human embryos have in addition to being distinct and organisms. Can you elaborate here?
It's an interesting approach, but how would you respond to a pro-lifer who cites embryology textbooks stating that life begins at conception? Also, how is a bioethics argument scientific?
Alright, 2 things. So first off textbooks aren't actually good pieces of evidence here, and aren't really examples of evidence. Here is what I mean: Excerpt from Dr. Ricki Lewis, a science writer with a Ph.D. in genetics and biology and author of several textbooks and thousands of articles in scientific, medical, and embryological publications. “Life science textbooks from traditional publishers don’t explicitly state when life begins because that is a question not only of biology, but of philosophy, politics, psychology, religion, technology, and emotions. Rather, textbooks list the characteristics of life, leaving interpretation to the reader.” http://blogs.plos.org/dnascience/2013/10/03/when-does-a-human-life-begins-17-timepoints/ Dr. Scott F. Gilbert, a legendary Embryologist from Swarthmore says: As an embryologist and the author of embryological textbooks, I can say with absolute assurance: There is no consensus among embryologists as to when an individual human life begins. https://www.huffingtonpost.com/scott-f-gilbert/countering-republican-claims-embryos_b_8152028.html Here is an excerpt from a lecture by Dr. Robert Wyman, chair of the Yale Biology department "There is a lot of false misunderstanding out there, We always hear” It is a scientific fact, as any basic biology text will confirm that life does begin at conception. The fetus is a live human being, distinct from, while dependent on, its mother. It deserves the full protection of its rights." That's what's common out there. Not only is it what people, most people personally believe, but it's generally considered to be a scientific fact. I've heard this from pro-life people and pro-choice people, almost indistinguishable. The question is--you've all had high school biology at least, how many of you had college biology? A few of you, guess what? That isn't what--that isn't at all what a beginning biology textbook says. What does it say? This is from--they send professors free copies of textbooks, so I just opened up one that they happened to send me, and it shows something quite different. It shows life as a cycle. There's no start point here. Fertilization is one of the events going around the cycle." http://oyc.yale.edu/sites/default/files/mcdblecture23notes_0.pdf And finally, P.Z Myers in my opinion completely refutes the textbook argument by showing why specifically the books pro-lifers use are not valid. http://scienceblogs.com/pharyngula/2015/10/01/bill-nye-and-abortion/ So overall as you can see: Textbooks simply do not say what pro-lifers want them to and they are bad examples of evidence in this debate. Regarding your second point, while the original theory started from a bioethics perspective, we now have a better idea of brain formation and development works which is why we can measure the time frame at a specific point. The 2 links I provided above in my title post from the NY Times and LA Times do a good job of giving a basic scientific overview of the issue. For a more detailed explanation, I recommend this link here: http://www.svss-uspda.ch/pdf/brain_waves.pdf Some relevant Citations: MOROWITZ AND TREFEL (1992): “In our usage, we say that our species acquired humanness when the enlarged cortex developed, and the individual fetus acquires humanness when the cortex begins to function.” ESWARAN et al 2007. Clin . Neurol. 118: 1940 – 1946: “We were able to identify specific patterns and track changes in fetal brain activity starting at 28 weeks of gestation.”
I usually use bodily autonomy arguments because they're simpler, but I'm interested in this one. In what way, specifically, are scientific textbooks not considered "good pieces of evidence," yet these author's claims are? Please elaborate, because your argument relies heavily upon refuting the widespread notion that life begins at conception.
Okay, first off. I highly suggest reading the link from Yale University which demonstrates how many of these books only talk about only fertilization as just an event in the cycle, but not the actual beginning of life. I will be taking a lot from the P.Z Myers article which shows why these textbooks aren't good evidence: First, the term "Human” in these cases is a general descriptor for the origin of the cells; it’s a statement about the type. You might as well say that that one quote about a “male and female haploid gametes (sperm and egg)” clearly states that sperm and egg are human, therefore science says we ought to criminalize menstruation and masturbation. "One other point I have to make about their sources: the Moore and O’Rahilly texts are specifically medical embryology textbooks — they are not good sources for information about general developmental biology, and are a bit blinkered in their perspective, and tend to focus on superficial aspects of descriptive morphology. That’s fine for medical and nursing students, I suppose, but if you want to actually understand the mechanics of development, they’re useless. They’re doubly useless if you read them with an agenda that refuses to be budged by the facts." The textbook argument goes both ways too: Pass F, Janis R, Marcus DM. (1971) Antigens of human wart tissue. J Invest Dermatol. 56(4):305-10. "Warts are human! Ban squaric acid, laser surgery, and topical liquid nitrogen treatments! (Warts actually are human: they are made of skin cells stimulated into benign overgrowth by incorporation of genetic material from a virus. They also, therefore, have a unique genetic combination.) Kim HB, Lee SH, Um JH, Oh WK, Kim DW, Kang CD, Kim SH. (2015) Sensitization of multidrug-resistant human cancer cells to Hsp90 inhibitors by down-regulation of SIRT1. Oncotarget. 2015 Sep 25. [Epub ahead of print] Cancer cells are human! They are also genetically distinct from their host, with a unique molecular signature. Finch CE, Austad SN. (2015) Commentary: is Alzheimer’s disease uniquely human? Neurobiol Aging. 36(2):553-5. Uh-oh. Scientists refer to diseases as “human”, too? Do we need to get informed consent and a signature from neurofibrillary plaques in the brain before we can try to treat it? "The point is not that warts, cancer, or diseases need to be regarded as persons. It’s that “human” is a very broad term that is applied to a lot of kinds of cells, and it takes a particularly naive person to browse through the literature and find things that confirm their biases. If Pro-Lifers want to cite textbooks, then they also have to deal with textbooks that clearly describe warts and cancer cells as human too. Read more here: http://scienceblogs.com/pharyngula/2015/10/01/bill-nye-and-abortion/ Now moving on to exactly why life does not begin at conception: When you say that life begins at conception you are saying that a human being exists at the moment when haploid human gametes fuse into a fertilized diploid human egg. Saying life begins at conception basically means that a single cell is in fact a human being. There is a reason not a single scientific organization supports this idea. Sometime in the not very distant future, probably in our quest to understand cancer, we will discover the mechanisms for unlocking the genetic code which prevents unchecked cell division. Since every single human cell contains the full genetic information of every other cell, it will become possible to take a skin cell and cause it to divide and differentiate into any desired organ, or even into a complete human being, genetically identical to the donor. The process is called 'cloning'. Will we then say that every skin cell is a human being? Rather should we not say that both zygotes and skin cells represent potential human beings with differing probabilities of actually becoming a full human? Valuing the point of conception is an unreasonable scientific position, it should be realized that one is putting a premium on is a potential and probability for humanness, and that it is not necessarily true that a fertilized egg is, in fact, a full human being at conception. The view that a human organism comes into existence at—or at the end of—fertilization is logically untenable and unscientific, because a fertilized egg may split and produce twins. If it is even physically possible for a fertilized egg to produce twins (whether it actually does so or not), a fertilized egg cannot be identical to an organism. As long as it is possible to twin, a zygote is not a human anything, but a cell cluster. In the case of twinning, President of National Institute of Science Explains Richard Dawson explains: “Neither of the two humans that eventually develop can be identified as the same human as the zygote, because they can’t both be so, as they are different humans from one another.”  It is logically impossible for one organism to be identical to two organisms. And, of course, anything that is logically impossible is biologically impossible. In twinning, two (or more) twins come from a single fertilized egg. But neither of the twins is identical to that fertilized egg, on pain of contradiction. To see this, suppose that a zygote (a cell cluster) divides and twins result. Call the zygote “A,” and one of the twins “B” and the other twin “C.” If A were identical to both B and C, then—by the transitivity of identity—B and C would be identical to each other. But B is clearly not identical to C. Therefore, A (the zygote) cannot be identical to B and C. A human organism cannot come into existence until there is no further possibility of “twinning". I can elaborate more if you need too. But I hope you get a general idea. Further Reading: https://hplusbiopolitics.wordpress.com/2008/06/25/inconsistancy-in-the-life-begins-at-conception-argument/

I sent you a PM I believe

Send me a PM and I respond back to you then. Still trying to figure out Reddit here lol
Life begins when the egg is fertilized, because at that point, the egg and sperm are no longer what they were, but are now a life that will never again function as before, or return to that function.
Your criteria are not specific.  The same can be said of implantation, blastulation, birth, or epiphyseal closure. Most things in biology are in a constant state of no longer being what they were.  Most things in biology never function as they did before.
No sorry, those are different events and conditions.
Yes, they are different events.  You said that conception is when life begins because of X.  X also applies to the different events I mentioned above.
What you fail to acknowledge is that conception does not always create an embryo life, much less a baby. In fact, it usually does not. Sometimes, conception creates more than one life—twins or triplets, but then one of those lives is absorbed into the body of another—fetal resorption. It really is not clear how many lives can be started at the moment of conception, and to say that a person always begins at conception is patently false. The biggest empirical problem with the view that life begins at conception is the scientific fact that a large percentage of embryos lack the capacity, under any circumstances, to become human beings. During the period of embryonic development that begins with fertilization and ends a few days later with successful implantation of the blastocyst into the uterine wall—the period known as “preimplantation development”—up to 50 percent of human conceptions fail to survive, most likely due to genetic errors in the embryo. Miscarriage is the most common type of pregnancy loss, according to the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Studies show that anywhere from 10 to 25 percent of all clinically recognized pregnancies (meaning that an embryo has implanted) end in miscarriage, depending in part on the age of the woman. The biological facts tell us we cannot draw the line for when life begins at conception. They also do show that many embryos that result from conception—indeed, the majority of them—lack the capacity to become living human beings. They do not produce disabled humans. They cannot produce any sort of human life. Science and medicine know this. To argue that life begins at conception is to reach for a moral stance that the facts simply do not support. Source: http://blogs.harvard.edu/billofhealth/2014/07/15/art-caplan-new-op-ed-when-does-human-life-begin/
To argue that conception does not create an embryo, a life separate and apart from the ovum and sperm, is to focus on the 1% exception and not the 99% rule, and is not worth my time. You might as well talk about Coke vs Pepsi...
I think you just ignored a good portion of my post. Let me try to restate m argument more clearly. When you say that life begins at conception you are saying that a human being exists at the moment when haploid human gametes fuse into a fertilized diploid human egg. Saying life begins at conception basically means that a single cell is in fact a human being. There is a reason not a single scientific organization supports this idea. Sometime in the not very distant future, probably in our quest to understand cancer, we will discover the mechanisms for unlocking the genetic code which prevents unchecked cell division. Since every single human cell contains the full genetic information of every other cell, it will become possible to take a skin cell and cause it to divide and differentiate into any desired organ, or even into a complete human being, genetically identical to the donor. The process is called 'cloning'. Will we then say that every skin cell is a human being? Rather should we not say that both zygotes and skin cells represent potential human beings with differing probabilities of actually becoming a full human? Valuing the point of conception is an unreasonable scientific position, it should be realized that one is putting a premium on is a potential and probability for humanness, and that it is not necessarily true that a fertilized egg is, in fact, a full human being at conception.
Not possible without an egg. Go read up. And yes, a clone is an individual, human organism by biological definition.
Yes, I am aware of this. Still, does not refute anything I said.
Yes I did. You are trying to say that because one day we may be able to use a skin cell to make a clone that this somehow disproves that an embryo is an individual, human organism but it does not. That skin cell will still need an egg and until the two are combined and meet the criteria for an organism that skin cell does not meet all the criteria necessary to be considered individual or organism.
I'm a bot, bleep, bloop. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit: [/r/prolife] Yet another group of pro-Choicers Cherry-Picking arguments If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads. (Info / ^Contact) 
It seems that since I am a new account, I am unable to comment in the pro-life post. However, I am gladly willing to answer any objections here.
Is an embryo living or dead? It cannot be both/neither. Thank you for your time.
Hello. So your question is really vague. I would argue that an embryo is living in the same way bacteria are. I would not qualify it as a living individual human being, however.
Thank you. DNA tells us that from fertilization the zygote is an individual human organism.. Would you then be persuaded to admit that a zygote is a human organism, and  that perhaps the brain issue lies on the philosophical issue and not a scientific one?
A unique genome is not required to form a human being (e.g. identical twins, or clones, or human parthenotes) and unique genomes often do not form human beings (e.g. mutated genomes of cancers or the modified genome of induced pluripotent stem cells). Unless we are willing to admit that melanomas are actually human beings because they have a different genome, and that a woman who is pregnant with her clone (or identical twin) is not actually pregnant with a human being, then this argument should be abandoned. By your definition, we would have to consider warts with unique genetic combinations as human beings. FYI I have also examined the secular pro-life argument, and their assertions are based on textbooks which as I have shown is not valid scientific evidence in this debate. BTW could you also clarify what definition of an "organism" are you using? A fetus does not seem to meet the most basic criteria: Organism - An individual living thing that can react to stimuli, reproduce, grow, and maintain homeostasis. It can be a virus, bacterium, protist, fungus, plant or an animal. - http://www.Biology-online.Org/dictionary/Organism A fetus fails 3 of the 4 criteria to be described as an organism, especially in early term.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3005285/ Give this a read. It focuses on NASA's definition of life, and there is no mention of EEG waves here. You are picking an arbitrary point in the living development of an embryo and insisting this is when it's "alive. Yes, warts are human in the adjective sense. The unborn are human in the adjective and the noun definitions. Whether the offspring is a zygote or a fully delivered baby, he or she is a human being. There is no point during development when s/he somehow “turns human.” He or she is a unique human being from the point of fertilization. https://www.babble.com/pregnancy/anatomy-fetus-placenta/ Here is an educational paper on fetal development. Yes conciousness does matter in terms of human NATURE- there are instances in which our human nature becomes limited, such as losing a leg, getting your tongue cut off, or having a brain-damaging injury. The first two don't reduce your humanity, even though it affects what you can do; it's still in your human nature to be able to do those things, but physical circumstances change what you're able to do. This doesn't change the fact that you're a human.  Reality states that a being must BE from the moment it IS. So if we can tell from an unborn child's DNA that it is human, and we observe that it is growing, is it OK to tear off a small piece of its body and then let it continue to grow? After all, it would not be a living human at the point in time when its body was violated. Embryos are not the same as a wart, cancer cell, or simple skin cell. https://www.princeton.edu/~prolife/articles/embryoquotes2.html https://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/pregnancy-week-by-week/in-depth/prenatal-care/art-20045302 Here is a good overview of what I mean by brain development. Pay attention to the Prefrontal Cortex and what it means for humans when it is fully developed. Children at age 9 do not have these abilities. They begin to have growth in that area in preschool, but it is immature. Are they less human because they have less of a functional brain? This is not the same as a biological definition of a human being. You're conflating philosophy and science and claiming it's purely science. I would argue that it is an obvious fact that a fetus, and even an embryo, does in fact possess these attributes in a process of development, just as children do.
Yes, as far as I know, an embryo can do all of these things, albeit at a cellular level. And, of course, a prepubescent child cannot reproduce in the "whole human" sense, but we certainly consider them alive. Being human is a process not a set of criteria that you interrogate at one single point in that process.  It is important to identify a solid, scientific start and end to that process.  Within those bounds you have a human being, whole and entire, although you will have varying needs and capabilities throughout the time period of that process.
You are just referencing one idea of what makes us "human" however. Technically, embryos do not fit the scientific criteria for life. First of all, they have not developed any reproductive organs. Second, they do not respond to stimuli. The individual cells do not yet even have a specific function. The individual cells might respond to some stimuli, but the embryo as a whole does not. It is more like a colony of unspecified cells just hanging there, and cells are not quite considered living organisms. There are single celled organisms, but they are almost always prokaryotes (bacteria). Plus, most people don't care about single celled life. Otherwise, people would be considered to be committing mass genocide every time they washed their hands. Even multicellular organisms, such as flies, bees, and mosquitoes, all of which are far more advanced than the embryo and are all considered living beings, are killed off en masse without so much as a second thought. What makes the embryo better than a mosquito? What about rats and mice, people kill them all the time without a second thought, and they are mammals with some semblance of brains. The difference is higher brain activity that differs us from animals. . A recent study tried to determine if a fetus has the ability to have behavioral states. They conducted a longitudinal study, “fetal eye movements, visualized by means of real-time ultrasonic imaging, and fetal heart rate patterns, recorded by means of a cardiotocograph” were observed as variable to see if a fetus experienced these states like a newborn human. These were confirmed to appear at the same cognitive function occurred when an EEG wave appeared. Thus giving more evidence to the Brain Birth position. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0378378282901062
As I pointed out, they have the same ability to reproduce as a bacteria does... or as a prepubescent child does.  So, both ends of the spectrum. Additionally, if you look at most multicelluar organisms with various stages of development, many go through non-reproduction stages. They respond to stimuli in the same way that any multi-cellular organism does which does not have our adult senses.  This response may be lower level (cellular) but if it is good enough for bacteria to be alive, so too the child. I don't see how this means it is not alive.  Reference my discussion about stages of development.  You need not function as an adult human to be considered a human, just like a tadpole is certainly a frog even if it does not act, look, or have capabilities as you would expect one to. We do commit mass genocide when we wash our hands... of bacteria.  The concern with genocide is not because we kill life, but because we kill human life.  We don't consider bacteria worth our concern as they are not human. The brain birth position is necessary only for situations like this, when you are attempting to justify killing children.  We have no need for it scientifically.  The need to for a start to the human process is perfectly satisfied scientifically by conception.

Part 1 of my Response A few things here: 1. The NASA paper itself admits that there definition of life for humans based on just DNA has some formulating problems in itself. They even discuss how it is just based on a species concept 2. Based on the overall definition of life provided by NASA we would have to consider ANY multi-cellular life form as "Life". Do you think it's reasonable to grant some form bacteria the same full attributed rights to human beings? No. I am simply using a scientific and evidence-based definition of what constitutes a human being in a medical sense and applying it to the fetus, which does not meet this criterion till 28-32 weeks. Quote from Dr. Arthur Kaplan fellow of several professional organizations, including the Hastings Center, the American College of Legal Medicine, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science: "A starting point that is far more consistent with the facts of biology is not conception but the emergence of the human brain." http://blogs.harvard.edu/billofhealth/2014/07/15/art-caplan-new-op-ed-when-does-human-life-begin/ This is where the pro-life argument seems to have some inconsistencies. When you describe something as "A Human" in the usage of a noun, you are saying it is a "Human Being" in the sense that it is an individual that is fully functioning and that meets the criteria of what constitutes a human being. It would be accurate to say a fetus "is human" as it has the identifier as part of the human species, but to say it is a "human being" or "A human" is scientifically inaccurate because you need to provide a scientific definition of what constitutes a human being. I provided a scientific definition of human being that actually fits with reasonable criteria. When you say that “Life begins at fertilization/conception” you are saying that a human being exists at the moment when haploid human gametes fuse into a fertilized diploid human egg. Saying life begins at conception basically means that a single cell is, in fact, a human being. There is a reason not a single scientific organization supports this idea. Sometime in the not very distant future, probably in our quest to understand cancer, we will discover the mechanisms for unlocking the genetic code which prevents unchecked cell division. Since every single human cell contains the full genetic information of every other cell, it will become possible to take a skin cell and cause it to divide and differentiate into any desired organ, or even into a complete human being, genetically identical to the donor. The process is called 'cloning'. Will we then say that every skin cell is a human being? Rather should we not say that both zygotes and skin cells represent potential human beings with differing probabilities of actually becoming a full human? Valuing the point of conception is an unreasonable scientific position, it should be realized that one is putting a premium on is a potential and probability for humanness, and that it is not necessarily true that a fertilized egg is, in fact, a full human being at conception.
Part 2 of my response While an informative read, I didn't see any information that says life begins at conception, or that a human being is formed at conception. I don't think you are understanding my argument. In all the examples you mentioned I would agree with you that the entity experiencing this actions is a human being and is still fully human. Why? Because that specific entity became a human being at 28-32 weeks when it met the criteria for what constitutes a human being. If it didn't meet this criterion as a fetus, it would be dead. You cannot live of function without meeting the EEG criterion for brain activity. Even those with brain damage or anencephaly still are human beings because they meet the baselines criteria established by EEG waves. If they did not meet this criterion they would have died. I don't really understand the value of your analogy. Once again we would have to know where brain activity was at this point at the time and if it met the criteria established in regards to brain birth. And of course, cancer, warts, and a simple skin cell are the same as the fetus. But when you use the pro-life criteria of "having a unique human DNA" as the determining factor of what makes us human beings. Then cancer, warts, and skin cells fall into that definition. A couple of things here about these sources. The first one from Princeton is not actually from the University itself by from their student pro-life. I have emailed the University and I asked them if they endorse these views, and they have explicitly told me that the views expressed here are soley of the students, and not of the University itself. I do not consider a website by some undergrad students to be reliable. Your second source doesn't say anything about a human being formed at conception or what the definition of a human being is. I don't think you understand how the EEG criterion works. I am not saying the brain needs to be fully developed for us to be considered human beings. I am saying it only needs to meet the baseline criteria at where neural reasoning becomes significant in many factors and separates us from animals and reasoning. The first brain cells do not appear in a human embryo until close to the third week after conception, and studies indicate that the thinking and sensing portions of the brain where awareness resides do not click on until after the 28th week. "the first appearance of a group of recognizable neurons or of reflexes doesn't make us human, because those are seen in lower animals." What makes us distinctly human, according to Dr. Michael Bennett, neuroscience chairman at Albert Einstein Medical School in the Bronx, N.Y. and many other neuroscientists, is the outer layer of the brain, called the neocortex. This critical portion of the brain is the seat of consciousness and complex thought. It enables a person to be aware and respond to what surrounds him. "The neocortex allows us to recognize one another, speak and make plans," Dr. Michael J Flower said. "Without our neocortex," Bennett added, "we wouldn't be much better than a reptile." The first neocortical cells appear about a month after conception, but three-quarters of the neocortex is not formed until the fetus is close to 6 months old, according to Dartmouth College's Miguel Marin-Padilla, an expert on human fetal brain development. Although the fetal neocortex is nearly developed at this time, the bulk of it will not be working for several more weeks--"the phones are in place, but there are no wires connecting them," according to Flower. Studies seem to support the notion that 28 weeks marks a dramatic turning point in the fetus's brain development." This is when we have a fully functional nervous system and we reach the capabilities of acting and being human beings. Full Readings here: http://www.nytimes.com/1975/05/09/archives/fetal-brain-said-to-live-at-28-weeks-role-of-the-brain-studies.html http://articles.latimes.com/1990-03-19/local/me-476_1_brain-stem/2 Further Sources about the EEG idea: https://academic.oup.com/jmp/article-abstract/10/3/237/897368/Neuromaturation-of-the-Human-Fetus?redirectedFrom=PDF https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1375829/ Okay so my evidence consists of research studies and the conclusions of several neurologists and esteemed scientists who cite institutional backed conclusions towards the EEG Criteria. Sure I will admit that there are some philosophical attributes, but I have presented a fully scientific case with peer reviewed evidence and research studies. Your evidence consisted off: A definition of life that would require us to consider bacteria as human beings. A few pages on fetal development that had no information on the beginning of life or what constitutes a human being. And a page from a student pro-life group. When we objectively weigh the evidence, we can see that the EEG criterion is far superior to the "human beings begin at conception" opinion. You simply do not have the evidence to support your case as you say you do.
I was talking about the mayo clinic link, not the babble.come one. Apologies for confusion. You're right that we would have to consider any multicellular organism as life and you are purposefully ignoring the fact that its DNA says it is a human organism. You said you emailed the university and they said they did not endorse those views but the views" come from every embryologist I have read about on the matter, and you're confusing brain function and cellular function with the definition of life. The page is composed of a list of quotes from embryology textbooks. "Being human" is simply being a member of the species homo sapiens sapiens. That's it. Full stop. All of the other qualifications you make are philosophical and unscientific. It's about fetal development. Did you even read the paper? You yourself admitted earlier that you considered a zygote life. Down towards the bottom you cite a doctor who says that without the neocortex we wouldn't be better than a reptile to "prove" that a zygote is not a human diploid-life- does that mean you do not believe a reptile is reptilian life? Is a reptile not alive? I believe u/TrustedAdult (who is an abortionist and strongly disagrees with me on the abortion issue) admits that zygotes and fetuses are human life and that when a person begins is different than when a  human life begins. S/he stated that s/he believes a human organism has rights when it begins to have high brain function, not necessarily based off of its being human itself. I disagree with the rights argument, but you must understand that the definition of life and human life are different than when you consider a human to begin. Human; a member of the species homo sapiens sapiens. Life; the condition that distinguishes organisms from inorganic objects and dead organisms, being manifested by growth through metabolism, reproduction, and the power of adaptation to environment through changes originating internally. Brain life is an entirely different subject than when life begins. It seems you are mixing a number of qualifications for humanity: size, degree of dependency, and brainwaves. All of these qualifications are by degrees, which is the problem. The brain or brain waves do not suffice to answer the scientific question of what makes a human because it is conflating having all your vital organs with being a human organism. /u/OhNoTokyo

I think the point should not be about at what stage exactly does a fetus become a human being biologically. Laws protect adults because of their position as producers and consumers in society. Children are protected because society needs them to replace adults as new producers and consumers in the future. They are valued by society because they are either working as producers or studying to do so. A fetus is doing nothing apart from being a parasite. They can't even evoke the same empathy we have for people who can't produce because of disabilities. Therefore they can only stay alive when a new potential producer is needed. A fetus not needed by society should not be born because no one is paying tax for it. That said, it's not as if it's always a good thing for the fetus to be born. Poor thing, doesn't even have a brain at the start. They can't decide if they want to exist, can they. Maybe it's lucky they died before they were born into a money driven world?


https://www.bostonglobe.com/opinion/editorials/2017/10/10/you-can-pay-for-aspirin-you-can-pay-for-birth-control/Mskwsd0JlGmZImshgG3ozI/story.htmlHIGHLIGHTS!Where "highlights" = bits and pieces I found particularly ridiculous. All emphases mine, all [bracketed comments] mine. Please read the linked article so you have the full context for my commentary. :)  The excerpts begin below:The freedom to use birth control is protected by the Constitution’s “fundamental right” to privacy. That freedom is a matter of settled law, and hasn’t been challenged in the slightest by President Trump or his administration.Elizabeth Warren, denouncing “this attack on basic health care,” claimed the GOP’s top priority is to deprive women of birth control. “News flash to Republicans,” Warren sneered. [Every paragraph in this entire piece could be followed with "Jacoby sneered".] “The year is 2017, not 1917.”News flash to Warren, et al.: There is no attack on health care [lolwut?], and no one in America is being deprived of birth control [LOLWUT???]. You are losing nothing but the power to force nuns to pay for your oral contraceptives. [What about the nuns that support free contraceptives?  Or the ones that aren't offended by the idea of such a thing? Also, is it just me or is this just another way of screeching "Taxation is theft!!!"?]As a matter of economics and public policy, the Affordable Care Act mandate that birth control be supplied for free is absurd. [Citation Needed.]In carving out an exemption to the ACA mandate for employers with genuine moral qualms, the Trump administration is belatedly halting five years’ worth of bullying by the federal government.It is disturbing to see “reproductive rights” hardliners react with such fury to treating nuns with respect and sensitivity. [Yep, we "reproductive rights" hardliners sure do hate treating nuns with respect and sensitivity (...Citaion Needed???).] Especially since birth control will remain as available and affordable as ever. [Solid gold toilet seats also remain as available and affordable as ever...for the people who can afford them regardless of government assistance.]It is true that a woman’s unwanted pregnancy can lead to serious costs, but the same is also true of a diabetic’s hyperglycemia. Should insulin be free? [Yes. Universal health care would be lovely, thanks. Our Emergency-Room-only health care is a pretty shit system. What's wrong with wanting a system where everyone has access to appropriate preventative, maintenance, and emergency care?]By and large, birth control is inexpensive; as little as $20 a month without insurance. For low-income women who find that too onerous [Jacoby sneered], the federal government’s Title X program provides subsidized contraception to the tune of nearly $290 million per year. [That...that doesn't actually tell us the degree to which the low-income woman's financial burden is alleviated...][Concluding Paragraph] The White House is right to end the burden on religious objectors. But it is the birth-control mandate itself that should be scrapped. Contraception is legal, cheap, and available everywhere. [ORLY???] Why are the feds meddling where they aren’t needed? [Ah just fuck everything in this paragraph.]Edit: Fixed link
This would be funny if it weren't simply horrible the amount of gaslighting, cognitive dissonance, and sheer denial of reality it takes to hold that opinion Ah yes, as the well-known nunnery of Hobby Lobby has shown us... Actually, as a matter of economics and public policy, the ACA mandate that birth control and not to mention your annual physical be supplied for free covered under the premium you pay every month makes perfect sense because of that whole "an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure" concept
Has the post been deleted?  The link doesn't work.  Though I would certainly hope this garbage was retracted.  They don't want us to be able to get an abortion, they don't want us to be able to get free birth control through our own insurance that we pay for if we have a religious employer, and now they don't want us to be able to get free birth control through the our own insurance that we pay for regardless of our employer.  And these are probably the same people that are against welfare, low cost childcare, mandatory paid maternity leave, and equal pay.  They want to force us to have unwanted baby after unwanted baby, but they don't care about babies' lives after they're born, they and their mothers are on their own then.
Ahh, I'm sorry! I cut off the last part for some reason. The correct URL is https://www.bostonglobe.com/opinion/editorials/2017/10/10/you-can-pay-for-aspirin-you-can-pay-for-birth-control/Mskwsd0JlGmZImshgG3ozI/story.html
That title says it all...
So to put this simply I agree with abortion simply because I am a guy (22 yrs) I can't fathom raising a child unprepared or in a situation where the woman was raped, and it's not the governments place to tell you what to do with your body. Now here is where the conflict comes into play I believe as soon as the zygote is formed and successfully starts growing you have life. That is a fully living and growing cell that if it is allowed to grow uninhibited and given proper nutrients will be baby in a several months. I'm not the most moral person and have come to terms with the amorality of it and how others view when life starts. Recently I have been thinking about the right to exist. A friend of mine is an abortion survivor and I found myself reflecting on the book unwind and the Casey Anthony trial. I am wondering as people do we have a right to deny other people's existence before they are even allowed to exist? And in the case of Casey Anthony if she would of just had an abortion it would be a completely different circumstances while kind of having he same result (no kid).  With Unwind it got me thinking that if the fetus could fight against the abortion then would they? I am not going to change my pro-choice stance, but I feel like I need to discuss these thoughts.
Okay the problem with all of that is that the first and most important thing to look at, the core of abortion rights needs to come down to how you feel about bodily autonomy. Bodily autonomy means we have the right to our own bodies, how it is and is not used and in most other circumstances a persons bodily autonomy is a human right. Except pregnant women. Bodily autonomy means that we cannot be forced to give blood, organs or any other parts of our bodies against our wishes. Bodily autonomy means that in order to take body parts from a corpse you must have received permission from that person before they died. Bodily autonomy also protects children from being forced to undergo dangerous surgeries to help prolong a siblings life, all around it's a pretty great thing that means that fundamentally your body belongs to you. So do you believe that people deserve bodily autonomy? If you believe they do then the abortion discussion ends there. The fetus is using the pregnant person's body and can be evicted, even if that results in the death of the fetus. Just the same way we can refuse to donate organs or blood to people even when it will result in their death. If you don't think bodily autonomy is a thing we deserve then the natural result of that is mandatory organ and blood donations. Your body no longer belongs to you, but to anyone who might need it, at any time, regardless of the consequences to your body and life. Bodily autonomy is why we get to deny the life of a fetus. Abortion is not about wanting to kill a fetus, it's about not wanting a fetus to be in them. The natural result of that is the death of a fetus but regardless of if we see fetuses as persons (and in no other situation is a person allowed to supersede another person's bodily autonomy) or we don't see fetuses as persons but as a potential person why should they be allowed to ignore bodily autonomy. You either say that fetuses are not subject to the same laws as people and are somehow above all other humans because they're a possibility and that somehow is more important than people's rights to their own bodies or they are subject to the same laws and the conversation ends. Or on the flip side pregnant women are considered somehow less than all other people and corpses and therefor being pregnant delegates you to a subhuman level where laws are suddenly different for you and you are afforded no human rights.

In what way is a fetus not intruding on a person’s bodily autonomy? Also stop using the phrase “the baby” when we’re having a discussion about fetuses. I won’t ask you again. If you want to have a mature reasonable conversation about this I am game but I am not going to bother responding to you when your using emotional loaded phrases.

Alright. The conversation ends here then. We’re referring to a preterm infant during a growth stage that has a pretty specific term and not an already born infant and if you won’t be mature enough to make that distinction I have no interest in talking to you.
Hey, pro-life friend here. What do you think bodily autonomy is?

So although you said you couldn't define it, it sounds like your working definition is: bodily autonomy: "being able to do what you want with your body, whenever you want" Correct me if I misunderstood.
"if the fetus could fight against the abortion then would they?" I feel like this is a somewhat pointless exercise; the whole idea of abortion (particularly in the early stages) is that the fetus has no cognition, no consciousness, no self-awareness, no pain.  It's kind of like "If trees could talk, what would they say about logging?".  I mean, sure . . . but it doesn't really matter, because trees can't think or talk. I do understand the "eventuality argument"- that given the proper pieces and time, the puzzle will eventually come together.  But then again, that also goes back to its constituent parts, too- a spermatozoa will also eventually become a baby if given all the proper things (an egg, a uterus, blood and nutrients, time, etc.) and fate smiles on it. And some people will get super-offended ("SPERM IS DIFFERENT!  AN EMBRYO HAS ITS OWN DNA!"), but for those of us for whom that doesn't really hold much significance, the question remains- why is it immoral to withhold certain components from a blastocyst, but not from an ovum or sperm? There's also the question of how you think of yourself and your personality, too, I think.  Folks are fond of the "What if YOU were aborted?" question, but that implies a certain sentiment about the importance of the aforementioned unique DNA.  I'm an atheist, so I don't exactly believe in a soul, but I do sort of believe that the person I am could have come from any of my parents' possible DNA combinations, if that makes any sense.  I've always liked the saying "the embryo that would eventually become me", because I don't believe that me, as I am right now, would've died if that particular zygote hadn't managed to successfully embed in my mother's uterine lining.  Or maybe it makes more sense to say that I wouldn't have existed because my consciousness never existed, either- just the shell waiting for it.  I don't know- that gets into deeper metaphysical concepts that I'm ill-versed in- but I do think it's something pertinent to the discussion that affects us all but rarely gets discussed.
The truth is that life began a long time ago and is a continuum.  Even before the zygote is formed, you have life.  The sperm and egg are alive. If the sperm and egg are allowed to find each other, you will have a zygote.  If the zygote is left alone, you'll have a blastocyst.  If the blastocyst implants on an endometrial lining, you'll have an embryo.  If if if. I base my views on personhood on neural development and activity.  If something has never thought, it is not a person.  We protect the rights of people.
Also, I'm just going to say, point blank, I don't think abortion survival is even a thing. I've never seen definitive proof aside from pro-lifers claiming they are and that's why they fight for a ban on abortions but until I see a study I can't really get behind the idea of "abortion survivor". Who in their right mind would attempt to abort a fetus and then when it didn't work just give up and carry the child to term? Maybe people who tried to give themselves abortions but that's a discussion on why abortion needs to be accessible and not why abortion needs to be banned. If anyone has reputable sources that show this is a thing that actually happens I'd love to see it.
This is one of the more notorious examples. A doctor messed up an abortion, the baby was born with severe disabilities, and her mother sued.
I see, thank you for the link. From what I can see the issue was that she wasn't actually seen by a doctor after having labor induced and later went on to give birth instead of abort but gives very little details outside of that. Interesting, none the less. If you know of any more examples of information about it and don't mind sharing I'd appreciate that.
You're welcome! Yes, I believe that the lawsuit was in regards to the medical care or lack thereof, but I included it as an example of how an abortion might fail and why a woman might not repeat the process. In some cases, the woman doesn't "try again" because the abortion results in a live birth. Gianna Jessen is a famous survivor of a saline abortion. She tweeted a copy of her medical records. Melissa Ohden also survived a saline abortion. She testified before Congress. Here is a copy of her testimony that includes a picture of her medical records. Ohden started the Abortion Survivors Network to reach out to others with similar stories. I haven't seen medical records or corroboration for all of those, but it could be a useful place to start if you're looking for more examples.
As distasteful as I find a lot of coverage of this stuff, I think it's unreasonable to try to hide it. I think it's important for people to realize that these represent very strange cases.
Why do lawmakers have the right to force someone else's child to be born? Fetuses wouldn't necessarily want to live if they could form an opinion. I strongly believe I should have been aborted. It's not that I don't want to be alive, but it's not like I would have minded not being alive and my mother would have had a happier life. An abortion was the right course of action for her and I'm angry she felt too guilty to have one.
Hello, Reddit's pro-choice community. Although I'm pro-life, I would like to contribute on this subreddit and ask the occasional question. I look forward to our discussions.Sometimes we pro-lifers hear flawed or poorly ariculated arguments in defense of our own position. I assume this happens to you as well. Which pro-choice arguments do you personally find the least logical or least persuasive, and why?
Pro choice arguments are rooted in science, logic, and compassion. "Pro-life" arguments are rooted in emotion and ego-boosting.
10/10 for reading comprehension.
I roll my eyes a little when people say "it's just a blob of cells."  It soooo doesn't matter.  We don't judge personhood by appearance.  Also I think a better tactic to sidestep the personhood argument, which is based on religion for lots of people, and instead talk about what rights a person has.  Even the strictest of religions don't mandate organ donation or force people to sacrifice their physical well being for someone else.
I think the idea of assigning equivalent moral weight to an underdeveloped fetus the size of a ping-pong ball as that to a fully formed baby is disingenuous and that's where it comes from, but calling it a blob of cells does a very poor job of articulating this concept. And it's a bit unkind to women who experience a miscarriage for a wanted baby at this stage. It wasn't just a blob of cells for them, it was their expected child. That's where I think personhood comes in. You can't objectively say a fetus is a person. Only the mother can assign personhood to her fetus. It only has value if the mother assigns value to her fetus.
I agree with your first paragraph.  I disagree with the second- I think that personhood, at least legally speaking, is something that can have a specific, measurable definition.  I think what those women grieve is not an actual person, but an imagined person.  They grieve the potential.  Only a mother can decide how much she grieves and how important that potential is/was to her, true.  It's kind of like a pet?  Some people treat their pets like people.  That's their prerogative, but doesn't change the fact that legally the pet is not a person.
Yeah, the "blob of cells" line is popular among pro-choicers. Good to see that not everyone blindly repeats it. And just so you know, the personhood argument usually doesn't convince secular pro-lifers either. I get frustrated when pro-lifers appeal to what the fetus/child could have accomplished had it grown up. "The child could have been the next Einstein!" So a person's right to life hinges on their contribution to society? Those same people usually reject that philosophy, but that's what their argument suggests.
I think people do use it to argue personhood, and there is an argument to be made that an embryo/fetus is not a person.  That said, aren't we all just blobs of cells, really?  That specific phrase just doesn't make sense to me personally. Well and they could just as easily be the next Hitler!
Offhand I can't think of any prochoice arguments that don't resonate with me . One view that does irritate me is that men should not have a voice in the debate regarding legality etc.
A lot of pro-lifers find that view tiresome as well, although from what I've seen, it's not typically a pro-choice opinion. Thanks for sharing.
Ten pro-choice arguments I hate as a pro-choicer- though there's certainly more than ten.
This article makes a lot of great points. It is so easy to fall down the rabbithole of arguing fetal pain or whether a fetus is alive and it's really just completely beside the point. Abortion is about bodily autonomy and not forcing women who don't want children to go through pregnancy.
Honest and thorough, to say the least. While I still disagree with the improved arguments, they certainly address the issue with more care and accuracy than before.

Your article assuses pro-lifers only care about the quality of life, which is not true. A prolifers may simply be concerned with a human being's basic right to life/the right not to be killed. Whether they support social programs and etc (which many do) is another topic entirely, because a human being's right to life doesn't come from how useful or successful he may be when he grows up.
I’ll respectfully respond as a pro-lifer. I honestly disagree with pain bills because I think all abortion should be abolished. However, I think the logic isn’t that pain = rights. The idea is that if something human feels its own pain, then it must be a person from that point at least. It’s a question of when a person begins to exist. Pain bills try to draw a line based on neural development. Next, the author makes a common mistake in understanding the pro-life position. We don’t think the fetus is a potential human person. We think the fetus IS a human person right now. I know this can’t just be stated as fact and must be proved, but the same goes both ways (in the case of this article). Can’t just claim a fetus is merely a potential person without arguing for a line and defending that line. The author says the line is at birth but doesn’t really say exactly why. Next, the author seems to suggest it is anti-life to bring people into the world who will suffer. Two things: 1) the alternative is death before birth, which is literally anti-life, and 2) it doesn’t have to be this way. We can get some much-needed welfare for people in such desperate situations. The failures of our social assistance system need to be hand-in-hand addressed with the abortion issue. Also, this argument also assumes that the fetus is merely a potential and not an actual person. So the argument doesn’t “work” for pro-lifers. You can’t (in other situations) choose to kill a person to spare them of suffering. So it falls on deaf ears unless you can firmly establish that the fetus isn’t a person now. Lastly, the “clump of cells/tissue” jab that annoys me. Look. All humans are a clump of cells/tissue. You can make anything sound ridiculous by reducing it to its fundamental makeup. It’s a little lazy I think.
I don't think it matters if a fetus is a person or not, because you can't force someone to give their bodily autonomy to another person no matter their age or number of cells. You can't murder people, but you can let them die, which to some people may be the same thing. If your 6 year old child needs a kidney transplant or they will definitely die, and your kidney is a match, it is perfectly legal to not give your child your own kidney and let them die. Unfortunately if a woman wants to stop giving her bodily fluids to another person/fetus, but that person/fetus is unable to survive without them, they will die. Abortion is usually about terminating a pregnancy, and death of the fetus is a side effect not the primary goal.
I was just replying to the content in this article, which  I do not believe invoked this argument. Are you citing Principle of Double Effect here? If you are, abortion fails the criterion that the act itself not be evil. Also, the good is only possible by direct means of the evil. So it fails two criteria. If that’s not what you are arguing, then I’ll just say that abortion can’t be called “letting die” because the procedure’s goal is to kill the fetus and remove the remains. Letting die is a passive decision that involves non-action. Abortion is not passive and it’s not non-action. In the case of a pregnancy, non-action results in a birth eventually. Abortion is an active measure that seeks to interrupt the result of non-action.
If your 6 year old child needed a blood transfusion in order to live, and you agreed to give them your blood, and let's say there's a machine that takes the blood directly from your body into theirs, you could still decide to stop the machine at any time and let your child die. In that case a non-action would result in your child living. Turning off the machine would be an active measure that seeks to interrupt the result of non-action. And yet you still have the right to do it. You have the right to deny your body to any person at any time no matter the age.
Respectfully disagree. You're confusing purposefully, with full intent of doing so ending someone's life and letting someone die.
Would you be ok with terminating a pregnancy by removing the fetus while alive and letting it die "naturally"?
It's called parental responsibility.
You can waive parental responsibility if you want (adoption)
We were talking about abortion though. I'm all for adoption, but I'm pretty sure if you grew your child out in the cold in the middle of winter and he or she froze to death you'd be charged with homocide. It's called being a responsible parent. And if you choose to have an adoption there is a window of time in which you have to deliver. If your child shows any signs of neglect when picked up than you can still be charged. Babies can die if they are not petted and played with
If your child was on life support and you pull the plug to end their suffering is that homicide? There are times when a parent can let their child die if they think it's merciful to do so.

No. But you weren't talking about evictionism, you were talking about abortion and justifying it by arguing through evictionism. So I think it's a fair point.

X-Post referenced from /r/atheism by /u/joelbergSatanist wins transfer of her abortion rights case to the Missouri Supreme Court I am a bot. I delete my negative comments. Contact | Code | FAQ

Are like half the people on this Subreddit Irish?
I think all of the Ireland posts have more to do with it being a place where a lot of abortion news comes from, than with a lot of posters being from Ireland.  It's similar with El Salvador and the United States.  You see a lot of posts about El Salvador because they have a lot of recent news about abortion.  And you see a lot of posts about abortion in the US because there is currently a lot of legislation about abortion rights and access to birth control.  I'm sure we have some Irish and El Salvadorians, but posts about their countries probably just get posted a lot because there is a lot of news about those places.
That makes sense.

Crossposted to r/ireland also
I feel like half of our content from r/prochoice is from Ireland.
This guy is just another swinging dick with opinions on something he knows nothing about and will never experience. If you don't play the game, bud, the don't try to make the rules.

You would think they would support birth control coverage since it prevents abortions and is cheaper than paying for unwanted children.  It's almost like their whole agenda is about controlling women and forcing them out of education and the workforce through forced reproduction, not preventing abortions from occurring.
Ding ding ding! You're not supposed to be having that dirty dirty sex anyway!
The GOP's agenda is about controlling woman. Trump just wants to undo everything with Obama's name on it. Had Obama outlawed birth control during his term, we'd have free, unsolicited birth control delivered right to our mailboxes every month.

According to the national Down syndrome society, 67% of American women who undergo prenatal testing and come back with a prenatal diagnosis of Down syndrome undergo a termination. The statistic is nearly 100% in Iceland. This choice should always be left to the woman, with counsel from her doctor. No one should be forced into carrying through with this type of pregnancy, just as no one should be forced into terminating it.
I have an inkling why it is problematic, but I was hoping someone could solidify my knowledge by listing what the medical, political, and social justice issues are with the ban.Thanks.
Some medical conditions aren't found until after 20 weeks. If the parents don't want to give birth to a deformed fetus or one that will have serious medical problems later in life a 20 week bad would remove that option for them. No one should be forced to parent a child with severe disabilities.
Let me add that the bill does not have an exception for fetal anomalies not compatible with life.
[removed]
I agree. I don't see how it can be viewed as anything else. I get the incompatible with life a little more but things like down syndrome. That is just pure eugenics.
This comment makes me want to support eugenics. But I have a feeling that's not how you meant it. So, out of curiosity: why should people not abort babies with known defects?
The same reason that we shouldn't kill any human being, at any stage of their life simply because they have a disability or special need.
I mean, if I was having a baby and found out it would have a serious disability, I would abort. I feel it's irresponsible not to. Plus, I would not have the resources to care for someone with a serious disability. If they're already here, nothing we can do about that. But if they aren't, why make that happen?
Oh, because they are already here. Where do you think they are? In another dimension? Sorry I don't mean that in a rude way but I don't really understand this line of thinking.
They are people who have been born...
So? What's your point? You will have to define the term "here". As in, what do you mean when you say that they are not here?
Do you not speak English regularly? I mean, they are here with the rest of us as people. Like, they have been born. Do you understand that now? Are you less hung up on basic phrases?

A long post I wrote in another discussion on Facebook, copies and pasted: The bill is predicated on falsehoods.  This is not a “we believe 20+ week abortions are immoral, thus they should be banned” bill.  It explicitly states that fetuses can feel pain at 20 weeks, which is simply not true.  This sets a dangerous precedent; if we allow a bill with false scientific rationales to pass, they will use that to continue to lie about earlier and earlier abortions.  These folks are the ones who want all abortion to be illegal, and they don’t care what reason they need to work up to get support for it.  It just happens that it’s very easy to target the so-called “worst” abortions in order to undermine Roe v. Wade’s trimester set-up (which allows for abortions to be banned after viability if a state so chooses). It creates a chilling effect.  People like to pretend that pregnancy is simple- it’s either fine, or life-threatening, and all doctors looking at the situation will come to a consensus on which.  In reality, when a woman comes in actively miscarrying, there’s always a risk of sepsis setting in if the uterus doesn’t expel its contents quickly enough or completely.  Some doctors opt for a wait-and-see approach; others are more proactive.  As a woman starts to worsen, two different doctors can have two different reactions based on their risk tolerance.  By the time a case is absolutely, 100% agreed-upon life-endangering, it can often be too late, or the woman can have suffered extreme, preventable morbidity (while still losing the pregnancy).  The idea is that if doctors are fearful of being prosecuted for their decisions, even though they are legal, they will be less likely to follow their best medical judgment, and their patients will suffer for it. There is no exception for abortions in the case of health-endangering situations or severe fetal abnormality.  Like mentioned above, pregnancy complications don’t have to be fatal to be harmful; you can walk away with your life but having lost your ability to walk or see, permanently disabled because an abortion would’ve been illegal.  Or you could be forced to carry to term for additional weeks or months a baby with a heartbeat but defects that will lead to severe suffering and death shortly after birth (could you imagine getting smiles and questions and tummy pats from well-meaning strangers and casual acquaintances?). This is a “solution in search of a problem”.  We do not have some huge problem with people getting late-term abortions; abortions after 20 weeks constitute 1.3% of all abortions.  That number is about the same as that of countries, like Canada, where there is no legal time limit.  The idea that women get abortions so late because they can’t make up their mind just isn’t born out; women get abortions that late because they face extreme barriers to getting them earlier, or their or their fetus’ health deteriorates or is discovered to be very bad late in the pregnancy.  Considering this, we know that the proposed ban is an attempt to undermine all abortion rights by starting with an easy target. The few non-medically indicated abortions that happen that late are, like I’ve stated above, the result of extreme barriers to earlier abortion.  In a 2006 survey of 1,209 abortion patients by the Guttmacher Institute, 58% said they would have preferred to have done it earlier- including 91% of those who had abortions in their second.  Another Guttmacher study delves into the characteristics of patients seeking late-term abortions.  And finally, ANSIRH’s famed “turnaway” study catalogues what happened to women who were denied abortions because they were past the clinic’s gestational age limit (not always as far along as 20 weeks, mind you).  What all of this research tells us, taken together, is that the problem of “elective” late-term abortions is that they often aren’t- they are ones of desperation because this country has made earlier abortion difficult if not almost impossible for the most vulnerable populations to access.
Thank you for this!
My problem with it is that abortion doesn't need to be regulated like that. It needs no more regulation than heart surgery or any other medical procedure: it should be done correctly and safely when it's needed. And when it's needed is up to a woman and her doctor and no one else. Especially not a politician.
The essential problem is that it draws "the line" closer to conception, when it ought to move in the opposite direction, and end with the government getting out of the picture altogether.

"Our abortion is different." -Conservatives
Ah, Republicans.
This is one of the best pro-choice arguments. Life happens  ---- even for anti-choice Republican Congressmen. Nice to have the option, eh?
This really makes my blood boil.

Just reading it now.  It's post 20 weeks "post fertilization," which is 22w of pregnancy.
Their definition of post-fertilization age means that pregnancies that are a result of frozen embryos could easily count as 20w as soon as they are implanted.
“(d) Bar To Prosecution.—A woman upon whom an abortion in violation of subsection (a) is performed or attempted may not be prosecuted under, or for a conspiracy to violate, subsection (a), or for an offense under section 2, 3, or 4 of this title based on such a violation." If you perform your own abortion, you cannot be charged under this bill.
Roe v. Wade protects abortions up to 24 weeks, so this would be unconstitutional, correct?
What is and is not constitutional is flexible.  It would likely be challenged.


Thankfully, we can filibuster this in the Senate.
The end of the article even said the bill would be DOA at the Senate
Good, babies can survive at 20 weeks.
That has literally NEVER happened. There has NEVER been a fetus born at 20 weeks that survived, ever.
Who said anything about being born?
Since there is no baby until a fetus is born...................
Define baby. Use a source.
ba·by (bā'bē), An infant; a newborn child. The source is a dictionary. It's really not that hard. It says right there in the definition "newborn", meaning one would have to be born. Prior to being born, it is a fetus. Quit being facetious. You're on a prochoice board. Do you really think you're going to change my mind on the matter? I let you know now, you won't.
Human fetus is right here in the dictionary. I'm not trying to change your mind. You don't get to decide definitions. They are what they are. And baby also refers to a human fetus or young of it's kind which are both applicable.
It would happen more often if we didn't abort them.
No it wouldn't. A fetus born at 20 weeks CANNOT survive.
Just think of them of fetuses that are 20-50 years old at a country music festival.  Then you will feel happy about them being killed.
You're right, it's rare, but it's not fair to say it never happens. Baby Dakota was born at 19 weeks post-fertilization, one week younger than the ban's maximum. So was Baby Frieda. It is rare for a baby born at 20 weeks post-fertilization/22 weeks gestation to survive, but it does happen.
That's incredibly rare.

This is a big deal.  This represents a minority of abortions, but a lot of abortions in the 20-24 week time frame are in response to findings on the 18-22 week anatomy ultrasound, which is performed at that gestational age because it's the easiest time to make many diagnoses. It's also a time frame in which a lot of people who had abnormal prenatal screening results for chromosomal anomalies are getting the results of follow-up diagnostic testing like amniocentesis. Also, fetal pain isn't a thing.  https://www.rcog.org.uk/globalassets/documents/guidelines/rcogfetalawarenesswpr0610.pdf
Don't worry, we'll just filibuster it.
Does this mean that if a woman's life is in critical danger due to her pregnancy after 20 weeks, she cannot terminate her pregnancy?
No,  it does make exceptions for that.
Would you consider making abortion illegal in most cases, the cases where a mother feels the child will be inconvenient. The details such as allowances for health to the mother, etc. could be negotiable?In exchange would be sufficient support for mothers and children. Support includes coverage of medical procedures related to pregnancy, support for food, maternity leave, sufficient schooling, other costs relating to raising the kid, etc.Would there be any amount of support that you do compromise, and would support making most abortion illegal?
Hey everybody, While AllOYall asks a question that could be interesting, most of their responses have rapidly shifted into things like personhood debate that are ancillary to the question being asked. Many of AllOYall's responses come from the perspective of abortion being murder, and are not good-faith efforts to find out our perspective on their question. They say so themselves in a comment thread with me further down: Nothing bannable at this point, but, y'know.  Keep it in mind while commenting.

Remember that I do not think abortion is murder, and that you are not going to change my mind on that.  I have an extensive comment history that will explain my rationale, and I will not answer questions regarding that in this thread. Requiring somebody to carry a pregnancy to term exposes them to medical risks in a way that I would not do without consent.  Giving them large amounts of money while removing their ability to decline a medical procedure is not ethical to me.
Would you be willing to briefly summarize your position on why abortion should be allowed?
You mean, THIS brief summary?
They actually said "I have an extensive comment history that will explain my rationale, and I will not answer questions regarding that in this thread." I would like to give them personally a chance to explain in brief. I will not try to put words in their mouth.
Reading comprehension would tell you that the first paragraph refers only to their rationale for why they do not think abortion is to be considered murder. It is on that subject specifically that they are trying to direct you elsewhere, so that it does not need to be rehashed. The second paragraph addresses "why abortion should be allowed", in brief. You then proceed to ask for that very thing.
Except that poster actually confirmed that they will not be willing to briefly summarize. I'm not going to pull incomplete statements and extend that to be the reason for one's position.
No.
I'm not surprised.
Good.  I had told you that I would not.  Then I did not.  I gave you no reason to be surprised.
You actually asked that your 'extensive comment history that will explain my rationale' be reviewed. I requested a summary. You offered an extensive review. Two different things.
Sure.
It was two different things.
Like I said, sure.
Like I said, abortion is murder.

Not for me. You either want kids or you don't. To think that in order to enjoy your sexuality, you must be willing to compromise on your lifestyle choice (specifically when the technology is there), just because people will help you raise it in whatever way seems like a terrible idea. I don't not have children because I can't afford them. I don't want them because this world is populated enough and since I don't want children, i shouldn't. And there's always the argument "then put it up for adoption. There are so many people who can't conceive", and my response to them is "and there are plenty of orphans who are waiting for a good home. They can adopt them."
Thanks for letting us know your thoughts. Let's add another hypothetical: Sufficient contraception is available and world growth has turned negative (many predict world population will start falling in the next 100 years or so).
Human population falling isn't a bad thing. Mass population of humans causes a ton of strain on the world. Even more still,  someone who doesn't want children probably isn't going to be a good parent. No child should live a life of pain because their parents chose to have them despite not wanting then, therefore not taking the time to give them a good childhood. All around, choice is important. Lack of choice is never a good thing.
That why I asked, if the children were given proper support, would you be okay with making abortion illegal.
There is no form of proper support that's a guarantee that a parent is going to be emotionally there for them. There's not one ounce of me that would be able to love a child that i was forced to have due to old-fashioned laws. Plus, you aren't explaining what "proper support" entails. And lastly, I would rather take a chance on any illegal and potentially dangerous alley abortion (like it was before it was legalized) or kill myself than be pregnant for 9 months with a baby that I didn't want and was being forced to carry. Abortion, legal or not, will always happen. The reason is this: because for some reason (unique to each person) the woman does not want to or can not care for the child once it's born.
Proper support is subjective, and I purposefully left it open to interpretation. Everyone has different ideas as to what is sufficient support for a child. It is understood that illegal abortions would still take place if illegalized. Every crime I can think of still hasn't completely stopped the illegal action from happening. What are your reasons for preferring to kill yourself or illegally abort rather then carry a baby to term, even if proper support was offered?
Just the entire thing. I don't want a parasite growing in my body for nine months, making me nauseated, crave food, cause hormonal imbalances, potentially splitting me open like a coconut from (either coming out of my vagina or my stomach)... and that's before they can even cry. I choose to protect myself with birth control. I will never have a child. I will not change my mind. And no one can technically force me to go against my own body, beliefs and personal life decisions. If they want to try, they will have to rip it from my cold dead body, because there will never be a time that proper support will be proper support in my eyes. I do not want something growing inside of me. Ever. That includes a situation where every support option is available. The best supportive option is the freedoms we were given when the Row v. Wade case was decided by the Supreme Court.
Some people see beauty in new life. I hope one day you do as well. Supreme Court ruled on Roe v Wade, Supreme Court also ruled on Dred Scott. Supreme Court is not always right.
I think others wanting children and having them is a beautiful thing. I have, many times over, celebrated new life.  However, when you're not allowed to make that choice for yourself, how can you see the beauty in that?  Have you ever read/watched The Handmaid's Tale? I strongly suggest it, as it displays how being forced to bear children (even from the prospective of falling population) can quickly turn from something pleasant to something terrifying for the women involved. Now, I don't know if you are of a specific belief system, but I also think that, because I come from a place free of the fears of godly judgement, I see things differently than some would. I hope one day you will, even if you don't agree with this idea, at least respect it or understand others reasoning.
I am familiar with the synopsis of the Handmaid's tale. I do believe it brings out a fear in order to prey on people with paranoid tendencies.

How do you help them deal with the knowledge that they were born as a result of forced childbirth? I wouldn't want to live.
I would treat them with the love all humans are due. Many successful and good human beings had their parents abandon them. Even if orphans are not successful, they are due love, respect, and dignity.
I still wouldn't want to live with the guilt. What an incredibly fucked up world to be born into.
I'm sorry if you have issues. There's a lot of really cool people out there, just get to know them.
Is this your debate style? Advocate torture and then say "I'm sorry you have issues" to anyone who objects?
You do have issues.

Nope. There is no scenario that makes it okay to take away any person's body autonomy. If humans think the only way to continue to survive as a species if by forcibly turning women into human incubators, we deserve extinction.

Personhood starts at birth. Legally, it's that simply. Personally, I believe it's when the fetus can be reasonably expected survive outside the womb without significant medical intervention. Right now, that point is around 25-26 weeks. That's unlikely to change. Even though science may be able to keep earlier deliveries alive, significant medical intervention will always be necessary and the odds of significant and permanent disabilities is also extremely high. Like I said earlier, abortions performed after this are almost always done for medical reasons. I imagine having an abortion for a medical reason is exponentially more difficult for a woman than having an elective abortion. Since having an elective abortion is already an extremely difficult thing for most women, even when they are absolutely certain it's what is right for them, I can't even begin to imagine how hard it must be when a child is something you wanted, planned for and excitedly spent months being pregnant with and then having to terminate. It's unimaginable and passing laws that make the situation any more difficult is appalling. 88.7% of abortions in the US are done during the first trimester. 10.2% are performed between weeks 13-20. That just leaves 1.1% performed after 20 weeks. Most of those are done before week 24 and the ones done after that are almost exclusively done for medical reasons.
I don't think that's true.  Premature babies are usually in the NICU until around their due date.  The earliest they leave is usually 36 weeks or so.  A baby that young would spend ~3 months in intensive care getting significant medical care.
I agree that, in most cases, viability is farther than 26 weeks. However, there are a very few isolated cases of babies born at 26 weeks that required very little medical intervention to survive. Yes, they were in NICU's for months, but there was very little done in the way of medical intervention. So I'm willing to compromise from a legal stand point. And like I said, there aren't a lot of women that just decide to get an elective abortion after 20 weeks anyway so it's not a problem that needs fixing.
I don't disagree with you that it doesn't need fixing :)  And I think even with significant medical intervention, babies born before week 24 don't often survive, so it's not a significant difference between your definition and the medical one.
Honestly, I think medically intervening with a fetus born before 24 weeks is irresponsible. They usually don't survive and when they do, they almost always have significant deficiencies that adversely effect quality of life. We still live in a world where medical resources are finite and I feel like they are best spent on cases with better odds of survival. But then I'm not the potential parent of those children, so I don't get a say in what they decide to do. The cases I mentioned were where the babies were born before 27 weeks and the parents decided against heroic measures and wanted to let nature take its course and they happened to survive.
I agree with you.  It would be difficult to make that call but I wouldn't want to doom my child to a life of suffering.


First of all, "souls" have no place in this discussion. That's a religious issue (and no, religion and morality are not the same thing). Simply being able to identify a fetus as a distinctly different organism than the woman carrying it doesn't make it a person. If you had a tapeworms, should you be forced to carry them around until the doctors can carefully remove them without harming them? They are a distinctly different, living organism. What gives you the right to kill them? Sure, they are sucking nutrients from your body, take up space in your organs and they are a general inconvenience, but you can live with them. It's a manageable condition. As far as your grandparents go, once they are of the age where they can no longer survive without being hooked up to machines, it's perfectly legal for the next of kin to remove the life support and allow your grandparents to die.
Actually, one is allowed to use the existence of a soul as reasoning that they do have life, dignity, and personhood. As far as your tapeworm analogy. Humans are different from animals. Humans have a right to life. Many people in the US need pills, regular medical treatments, etc. else they would die. One doesn't need to be on life support to be considered with significant medical intervention.
Now you are just being facetious. You're trying to force the answer you want to hear even though you've been told repeatedly told there is no situation where it is acceptable to take away a woman's rights. Yet you still keep coming up with ridiculous scenarios and comparisons. One more time, IT IS THE RIGHT OF THE WOMAN AND ONLY THE WOMAN TO DECIDE IF AND WHEN SHE WANTS CHILDREN. Period. It really is that simple.
Then let's do gender tests before all abortions. The female fetus' shouldn't be allowed to be aborted.

How so? You are of the opinion that humans are not animals?
Humans are different from non-human animals. You know what I meant. Humans were have free will, intellect, and spirituality. No other species does.

Inconvenient. That word is quite the litmus test for me, in abortion debate. In ANY other context, no sane person would refer to the sort of risks and sacrifices a person makes in pregnancy/childbirth/parenthood and call them "an inconvenience". To suddenly call them such in the context of abortion, is absolutely to deliberately attempt to diminish and dismiss that sacrifice. I would like to know why you feel that doing such a thing is important to your pro-life argument. You have genuinely and wholeheartedly internalized that fetuses are children and abortion is straight-up murder, yes? Shame on you, for believing such a thing and STILL behaving as if the degree of sacrifice affects the morality of your stance. It should not. I think the support you reference is a good thing. Even a fraction of it would be a good thing. It would certainly lower rates of abortion among women who do want children but feel unable to support them. You should want that to happen and if programs like that are otherwise feasible, I would consider it vile and condescending to hold it hostage as some kind of bargaining chip - to be allowed if and only if women across the board agree to give up their reproductive autonomy. Someone comes up to you and tells you that you really ought to willingly go to prison. It's for the good of society, they say, and it will directly result in the birth of a new human [hand-wavey, somehow]. If that same person were to sneer "inconvenience" at the concerns you subsequently voice about bodily safety, damage to your current life, mental health and/or financial stability and condescendingly insist that it's selfish for you to care about any of that, would you somehow be MORE likely to agree with their position? Then they say "ok, compromise - we'll do our best to make the prison as swanky and comfortable as possible. That is a pretty equal compromise." What about then?
That's why I said that full support "Support includes coverage of medical procedures related to pregnancy, support for food, maternity leave, sufficient schooling, other costs relating to raising the kid, etc." would be given. And I pretty sure most mothers don't consider typical pregnancy to be that terrible. Not easy? Yes. Terrible as you describe it? No. Helping the unfortunate is part of my belief system. If abortion were illegalized and support was increased, I would be fulfilling several moral duties. Great to hear. Except that isn't how life works. A better equivalent, considering the hypothetical scenario would be: You make a mistake and commit a crime. (some people consider pregnancy a 'mistake'). Instead of going to prison (you believe prison is like pregnancy) you are offered resources and support to get through it. To overcome whatever conditions you may be struggling with.
Unless you've personally been pregnant, you have no clue whether or not pregnancy is miserable or more than an inconvenience. I have been and have carried a pregnancy to term, and it was hell. I can't describe how unpleasant my pregnancy was, oh and labor? You have to include child birth in that, which is literally one of the most painful experiences on planet earth. So I have to disagree that pregnancy is a minor inconvenience, that's an ignorant perspective if I do say so.
Unless you've personally been murdered, you have no clue what's it's like to be murdered as a fetus. Life matters.
I was responding to the point you made that pregnancy isn't "terrible" it has literally nothing to do with whether or not a fetus is a life. Your response was a misdirection, im simply following up on your own misguided comment. That being said, you wouldn't be qualified to speak as to  whether or not a fetus feels any way about abortion either. Also, I think your word choice is very loaded and inappropriate for this sub. I would suggest you stop using words like "murder" if you expect anyone to actually hear you out on your point of view, the wording is very off-putting to say the least.
I actually do have a clue. I know several people very well who have been pregnant, and they didn't describe it like you try to paint it as. And you talk about using loaded words. Hypocrite much? Either way, no matter how a pregnant woman feels, she doesn't get to murder the baby.
Well it sure sounds like you know more than I, a human woman with a child, (who has had abortions also), does about pregnancy. Either way, currently abortion is very legal, so yes, yes she can have a pregnancy terminated. (Which is an abortion, not a murder, I wanted to correct you incase you weren't aware.) Edit: it's also not a baby, it is either a zygote, or a fetus or a stage in between.
Call it what you want: fetus, zygote, baby, human, life, etc. It's still a human life. The name game you pro abortionists play only works on stupid people. (like pro abortionists) Your argument is that life or death decisions can be made off of how 'pleasant' they are. It would be very unpleasant and horrible to be murdered. Therefore abortion is wrong, per your logic.
It would be, if abortion was murder, which it is not.
Abortion is murder. I'll give you a chance to explain you point of view. How is typical abortion not murder?

I would kill myself if I found myself pregnant in such a society. Pregnancy is one of the most invasive, violating, dehumanizing and dangerous things that can happen to a woman. It should never be forced on anyone. What you're advocating is torture, which you pretend is ok because you pay the victims.
I'm sorry to hear that. Here are some resources for depression.
How patronizing. Wanting to escape torture is not depression.
Unhealthy attitudes towards fundamental aspects of life can indicate something is not right.
Torture is not right.
Agreed. And pregnancy is not.
Thankfully the UN disagrees with you on that
Thankfully the UN does not set moral standards.
I mean it kind of does
Morality is a common truth, what the UN says does not change morality.
Alllllllllright a little late to the party, but I just had to respond. Absolutely fucking not. And here's why; I take issue with this part of your post: So support includes things that you've considered to be 'inconveniences' related to having and raising a child. How would you be able to provide support for the 15 year old who has to walk around her high school every day for months visibly pregnant? Whose classmates stare and whisper... And I'm not talking about how it affects her education, I'm talking about how it affects her social life and self-esteem. How could you possibly support a pregnant addict? Or a pregnant woman who has to stop taking medication due to her unwanted pregnancy? How could you support a woman who suffers from severe PPD for years after being forced to birth something she never wanted? Sure, you can throw money into medical bills, food, supplies, schooling, and 'other costs related to raising the kid'. But you can't solve all the damage done by throwing money at it. How would you provide 'support' for the months of unwanted exhaustion, altered appetite, nausea and vomiting, heartburn, constipation, hemorrhoids, and weight gain? How would you support her as she has difficulty sleeping, increased swelling of her joints, leg cramps and higher blood pressure? How do you provide support for someone who feels constant discomfort because their internal organs and rib cage are shifted? Could you support her while her vagina is being torn open upon delivery? I mean sure, you could hold her hand, and pay for the husband's stitch, and pat yourself on the back. But other damage has been done that you cannot support. How would you support the woman who for the rest of her life has vaginal muscle weakness OR pelvic floor disorder, and therefore pees a little when she coughs or laughs? Support for the woman whose breasts are forever changed in size and shape, the woman who's covered in stretch marks and loose skin? Support for the episiotomy or c-section scarring that may never go away? We haven't even gotten into more severe side-effects and complications. Soooooo many things you cannot provide support for. These temporary and permanent effects of pregnancy and childbirth are not yours to dismiss, downplay, or argue. Even the aesthetic ones. The social, mental and physical toll is not yours to dismiss, downplay, or argue. There are so many reasons, besides money, that a woman may not want to be pregnant. You can never provide enough support to someone you are forcing to incubate and birth a fetus they don't want to host. Basically, you are entitled to your opinion that human life begins at conception, and every birth/baby is a miracle/blessing. But you are not entitled to push that opinion onto others, because frankly it is egocentric and unrealistic, and does not take into account individual circumstances and struggles that actually come with being pregnant and having a baby.
The difference between you and I, is that you put the opinion of others over a humans life. I value a humans life over the opinion of others. Walking around at school and stretch marks are not a reason to kill someone.
Ah yes, just as the mods said, you aren't actually here to debate your posed question, but rather to force fetal personhood ideology down our throats. I regret taking time out of my day to form a response.
I find it funny the way you jump to the 'force down our throats' narrative so easily. I gave my reason why I don't agree with you, and you were the one who is* ending the discussion.
There is no amount of support that would be worth taking away a woman's body autonomy. Would you be okay with forcing someone to donate a kidney or part of their liver or even just blood? What amount of compensation and support would make it acceptable? Hopefully, your answer is none, because that is the only right answer. It's the same with abortion. I don't want more children. I have children. I know I am perfectly capable of raising children completely on my own with no help from anyone. I do not WANT more children. There is no amount of support that will change that. I shouldn't be forced to carry a pregnancy I don't want. It's just that simple. The only thing I have an issue with is late term abortion (after 24 weeks). It shouldn't be an "elective" procedure, but that's a moral issue, not a legal one. We don't need more restrictive laws because they wouldn't be solving a problem. As it is, late term abortions are generally only performed if the live of the mother is at stake or the child won't survive or have a meaningful life. These are people that WANTED children. We don't need to do anything to make the decision to terminate more difficult for these women.  For women that don't want to continue a pregnancy, or can't for whatever reason, they almost always have an abortion in the first trimester. As it is, in the US alone, 21% of living, breathing children are living below the poverty line. There are 13 million children living in food insecure households, meaning there isn't enough food for everyone in the household so some of them are going without proper nutrition. 20 million children are living without significant access to basic healthcare. Before we even start discussing how to end abortion and bringing more children into the world, maybe we should start taking care of the ones that are already here.
Thanks for giving an insight into your thoughts. I wouldn't force someone to donate organs if sufficient support was provided. But I also wouldn't be okay with actively murdering anyone just because they are inconvenient or unwanted. A person is not completely responsible for taking actions to help others well being. But a person is actively performing an evil if they take deliberate actions to end another humans life.
A fetus is not a person. Abortion is not murder. Abortion is not evil. No human life is being ended.
When do you believe a fetus / lump of cells / person / soul / baby achieves personhood status? At what time is it wrong to kill them?
Your problem is that you're inaccurately equating abortion with "murdering anyone" and "ending another humans[sic] life". Most abortions occur long before the bundle of cells and/or fetus (for later term) can live on its own.
When do you believe a fetus / lump of cells / person / soul / baby achieves personhood status? At what time is it wrong to kill them?
When they're born - period. If they're inside the mother's body, then they're not a person yet. You have every right to carry to term if you want to, that doesn't mean you have the right to force the same on others.
Thanks. Can you let me know your reasoning for why birth is the start of personhood?
Because that's where it needs to be to protect the rights of the mother.
So one can be denied rights if it inconveniences another person?
There is no "other person" involved in an abortion. A FETUS IS NOT A PERSON UNTIL IT IS BORN.
Other person = mother. So the fetus/child/baby/lump of cells/human/soul will get personhood eventually. but not until it becomes convenient for the mother, per your logic.
You're falsely equating "rights" and "inconvenience." I shouldn't even be arguing with you, but I'm royally pissed off at religions trying to force their view down the throats of others right now, so you're getting an argument partner out of it. Do you really think you're going to change anyone's mind on here? Do you do this out of some sense of savior complex?
Please explain further.

Lol. No. Because that is in no way a compromise. Both of those things are necessary. We need safe, legal, affordable abortion with no stipulations, AND we need adequate support for struggling families. It doesn't need to be one or the other, so I see no reason to make it that way. Not to mention the fact that it's not really possible. An unwanted child can't be "supported" out of being unwanted. An unhappy mother can't be "supported" into wanting to care for her child. And she shouldn't be forced to.
Why do we 'need' abortion? Why do orphans, which aren't 'supported' by parents have a right to love, but that right doesn't apply to the unborn, per your logic?
We need abortion because women need to be able to control their bodies. They need the ability to decide if and when to have or add to their family. They deserve to be able to have control over their own lives. We need abortion so women don't have to endure a potentially dangerous medical condition. So women aren't put under undue financial, physical, and mental strain because you think they deserve it. So people don't have unwanted children, and so those children don't further burden society. ... Why don't we need it, in your mind? The "unborn" are just that: fetuses. A woman has a right to decide if that fetus can continue to use her body to survive. Children are people, who deserve a loving home.
We don't need abortion because it ends a humans life. Why do you believe the fetus/lump of cells/human/baby/embryo is not considered to be killed in an abortion? At what point do you believe it becomes worthy of protection from death?
Of course it ends a human life. That is literally the point. Whether it's worthy or not is up to the mother. If she wants it, she will probably try to avoid things leading to its death. Abortion is there for those who don't want or can't have the baby.
Why do you consider it acceptable that the mother chooses if the little one lives or dies?
... Because it is her body.
Forgetting about the babies body, are you?
The baby has no right to autonomy. Even if it did, abortion is essentially self defense. So even if it were a person i would have no issue killing it.
What do you believe makes the human baby not have bodily autonomy, but others have it?

Would you allow someone to force another person to be a bone marrow donor as long as they provide "sufficient support" for them? What level of support would be sufficient for you to support bone marrow donation against the donor's will? (In other words: no.)
Abortion is taking an action though, the action is killing another human. Not donating organs or bonemarrow is not actively being aggressive to another human being.
If you saw someone being forced to be an unwilling donor, would you take action to help them?
Yes.
You would take action that resulted in the death of another human being in order to prevent someone from being forced to undergo a gross violation of their bodily autonomy? So would I.
Classic false equivalence.
I wouldn't force someone to donate bone marrow if sufficient support was provided. But I also wouldn't be okay with actively murdering anyone just because they are inconvenient or unwanted. One is not completely responsible for taking actions to help others well being. But one is actively performing a murder if they perform an abortion.
How does pregnancy not fit this description?
Because a pregnant woman who acts prudently will have her baby live and be born. (unless of course medical issues) But in an abortion, you deliberately kill the child.
You said "one is not completely responsible for taking actions to help others well being."  Is a pregnant mother not "completely responsible" for her fetus's well-being?
If a mother goes about her life and lives prudently, the baby will live and be born (assuming no medical issues). Someone must go out of their way, and with the intent to end of life, to perform the action of abortion. There is a difference between the natural course of ones actions and going out of ones way to intentionally end someones life. (abortion)
I've seen this argument before but haven't gotten a satisfactory answer.  For example, the comparison between abortion and a life-saving organ donation.  If I get an abortion, I'm making a choice about how to use my body, enforcing it, and killing a living being (setting aside the personhood question here).  If I choose not to donate my kidney, I'm making a choice about how to use my body, enforcing it, and killing a living being.  How is it any different?  How is an abortion not a natural course of action?
Abortion = taking an action to kill someone. Organ donation refusal = not taking an act to help someone. It is not considered a crime/wrong to not go out of your way to help someone. We know there are people being abused, we know there are people dying of disease, and yet, we don't take major steps to help them always. If a child in Africa could be saved by a $5 vaccination or pill, and we spend $5 on something else, that could be donated to and used to save the African child, no one considers us to have killed them. But if we saw an African child, and shot them, and killed them, that would be considered killing them. Abortion is deliberate action with intent to end a life.
It would be illegal to kill them for no reason, but not illegal to kill them in self defense.  Just like it's not illegal to kill someone by choosing bodily autonomy over organ donation or pregnancy. Can you explain to me why action that results in someone's death is inherently worse than inaction that results in someone's death?  In both cases, the other person died.  In both cases, there are likely mitigating factors that made me guilty of murder or not.  I think it's a false dichotomy.
We are not responsible for the creating the situation where someone else will likely die. But we are responsible if we purposefully put someone to death.

An unwanted pregnancy is not merely "inconvenient", it is a gross violation of bodily autonomy.
Except the reason sex was created and exists, it to fulfill procreation. Pregnancy is nature running its intended course.
If nature ran its intended course, my wife would have died in the womb, so I have no particular attraction to the idea of letting it have its way.
It's not about nature running its course. It's about nature running its intended course. The intended course in order for your wife to live a fulfilling life is that she would live.
So you'd be fine with a woman terminating her pregnancy through inaction (eating and drinking nothing until she either dies or gets so sick she miscarried)? Pregnancy is a very very active process of sustaining a life. Every day the host must take actions to sustain the wellbeing of the embryo. Would you force them to take that action?
If you knowingly fed someone, that you knew was deathly allergic to peanuts, a ton of peanuts, and they died, would that be 'inaction?' In ordered for a pregnancy to be fulfilled, you would take the natural and intended actions in order that the baby would be healthy. There is a difference between an intended action in order to do good  (the mother living a prudent lifestyle during pregnancy) and action intended to do bad (intentionally killing someone through abortion.)
Answer the question. Because to me, eating when you know it's feeding a parasite inside you is not a natural or healthy action. And intended by whom?  The sadistic mass murdering character from the bible you people call "god"?
Both of your hypotheticals were addressed. The intended and fundamental course of life is that a baby would live inside a mother.
Estimates put the number of conceptions that ends in miscarriage between 1/3 and 2/3. A baby is not the standard outcome of a pregnancy. Also, "intended"? Another appeal to the murderous sky fairy?
Intentions are different from what happens. Someone can intend something that doesn't turn out that way. The intent is what is necessary in order for life to go on. Natural law.
Oh the natural law fallacy. What a surprise. One of the logical holes you torture-supporters often fall into... until you need treatment for an illness nature "intended" you to die from. Funny that.
Natural law is universal.
No. Fuck that.
No.
No, I wouldn't agree to that. No matter how much material support is provided, no woman should ever be forced to have a child she doesn't want. I would NOT compromise on that issue, even if the fertilized egg could be removed from the woman's body and allowed to develop elsewhere. It's the idea of forcing anyone to undergo an invasive, traumatizing medical experience against their will that I cannot condone under any circumstance.
In principle- no. However, I understand that compromise is sometimes necessary, so I try and think: if I didn't have the luxury of a pure ideological stance, where would I draw the line?  And I think it would have to be thus: How many women seek illegal abortion?  If this policy were put in place, what would the numbers look like?  Yes, lack of financial stability plays a big part in why women seek to have abortions, but it is certainly not the only or sole reason, and plenty of well-off women have always had abortions.  So the question turns to- what do the numbers look like?  How many unsafe abortions, botched abortions, and how much morbidity and mortality are we comfortable accepting?  (And especially considering that criminalization of abortion has no upsides for me, as I don't particularly care if a pregnancy isn't carried to term, there's not exactly any thing on the other side of the scale here, you know?). I'm also curious as to what sort of enforcement this hypothetical lays out.  Is this the criminalization of the pre-Roe days, where cops turned a blind eye unless a girl died or a prosecutor wanted to make a name for himself?  Is this the criminalization of Romania's Decree 770, where miscarriages were investigated as potential crime scenes?  Who is jailed- doctors, women seeking abortions, or both?  In a world where we have the abortion pill and early pregnancy is undetectable to the naked eye, just how far are the authorities willing to go to ensure every conception ends in live birth or natural miscarriage?  And if one does hold that only doctors be punished, what of the woman who gets and takes an abortion pill all by herself?
Thanks for your reply. Per research by the Guttmacher institute, the number of deaths due to illegal abortion were less than 200 in 1965. Roe v Wade was passed in the US in 1972. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that in 1972, 130,000 women obtained illegal or self-induced procedures, 39 of whom died. Source This survey by the Guttmacher Institute gives reason women cited for abortion: Study The mother would be treated as a victim and not charged in a crime, per the current legislation in HR 36. Source The mother is treated as a victim and the abortion providers would face the legal actions. Per HR 36, five years in a federal prison, a fine, or both, would be the legal action due to performing an abortion.
Is this about HR 36?  Because that's a lot more specific than the scenario I had presumed (i.e. all abortion illegal, not just that after 20 weeks).
It's about abortion in general. HR 36 was mentioned because it's setting a precedent as to how the criminal aspect of an illegal abortion would be handled.
Ah.  So that does beg the questions left unanswered in my original comment (re: self-induced abortion).
What question, specifically, would you like addressed?
This hypothetical criminalization- it does not seek any prosecution for a woman who aborts by taking abortion pills obtained clandestinely?
There are already cases in the US where a mother's self induced abortion came to trial. There is already a precedent established. Typically a self induced abortion receives some type of punishment, that may not be a serious a a full murder charge.
True, albeit for late-term abortions that required the women in question to seek emergency help (Purvi Patel, Anna Yocca); there's really no precedent, to my knowledge, for prosecution of an early, successful, non-emergent-care-requiring self-abortion with pills.  That would be uncharted territory and thus what I'm interested in, as it seems a giant loophole.
Of course the courts would decide that.

I think that IF this were to happen, including ample access to sex education and birth control, then the pro-abortion argument becomes harder to make in cases were there was consensual sex and the pregnancy appears healthy. Here is another hypothetical: Suppose you could choose between abortion laws as practiced in the U.S. right now, or every boy is required to get a vasectomy at 14 years of age.  The procedure can be reversed upon a certification that a woman is willing to bear his child.  Would anybody who is anti-abortion be willing to trade that for what we currently have?  If not, why not?
I'm going to have to go with no. I wouldn't give up my right to abortion in exchange for support for a living child, because the reason I've aborted is due to absolutely frightening and miserable pregnancy. I'm also on a medication that infants withdraw from, and that's miserable as well for both potential parties and can be life threatening if not treated properly. Personally I feel that an abortion is the more humane thing for both the potential "life" and for me. But I also don't consider an early term pregnancy to necessarily be a life, otherwise I would have to consider that any fertilized egg that doesn't adhere to my uterine wall and passes is technically also a loss of life. I personally don't equate the loss of cells to a loss of life.
[removed]
Fair enough.


I thought "Pro" meant Professional like Professional Wrestling. There's nothing professional going on here. I am confused.
If it helps, we generally wear masks while performing procedures.

👏👏👏
Here is how a prolifers sees it though. A person who has already given an organ to another can not withdraw consent either. They can not tear open the person to whom they have given an organ and take it back because that would harm if not kill the recipient. In the same way you can not tear the human fetus or preborn child out of your womb once they are already there because doing so would kill her. So a pregnant mother is not analogous to a registered bone marrow donor but rather, a person who has already donated their bone marrow.
However, having already donated bone marrow doesn't actively affect your health and pose a risk of death.

South America makes me so sad.

they'll win at 7COA

Ok, I know this is a ticklish subject, but I have to know: Does PP actually sell fetus remains for medical research? I don't have a problem with it, but it seems a lot of people do. Also, I need to know if that related secretly taped interview was a con job, too. The one where the PP heads are laughing about the money they're making from selling fetus cadavers. Just curious.
answer: it doesn't. they never did. ever. they donate to science. They ask to be repaid the shipping costs only. the tapes you're talking about are edited maliciously. https://rewire.news/search/?s-keyword=attack+videos when the woman laughs, she's laughing at the very idea that they make money.  and she sarcastically says that it makes big bucks. she's mocking conspiracy theories.
That makes sense. Unfortunately my family's news mainly comes from sources like Breitbart and sometimes Fox. I had a feeling something wasn't right about that video. I mean, these are the same groups who think babymaking is mandatory, and gays are destroying the nuclear family. Thanks for the info!😁
Those tapes were proven to be doctored hoaxes long ago. It was all a lie by the anti-Choice movement.
Ok, can you suggest any articles?
Full explanation and context: http://www.factcheck.org/2015/07/unspinning-the-planned-parenthood-video/
Thank you!😊


This is a parody, right?
Unfortunately not. Following the video link and checking out the user reveals that quickly.
This is like the trolley experiment to people who find abortion immoral. Would you pull of the leever to kill 1 person instead of 4? If a person gets an abortion they prevent abortion. It is not 100 % likely that this will prevent an abortion, but it is a risk for millions of offsprings to exist.
If that's the case, it's better to murder every 5 year old child you see as well, so they don't grow up to be murderers themselves, right? If this is seriously the best pro-choice argument you have then good luck, lol.
There is a 25% that somoene will get an abortion. If the gene does not stops it will result in more abortions. The minority of people are childfree. That 5 year old has a 25 percent chance of "murdering" somoene and a high chance of replicating similar people who will "murder". There is a higher chance birth will lead to more abortions. It is an unstable time bomb. It is not okay to kill 5 year olds because they have a very small chance of murdering somoene and their death will cause more harm for their parents. If the 5 year old has a 25 percent chance of murdering somoene, 90 percent chance of getting 1-2 children it would be neccesary for harm reduction to kill him or her. People don't mourn over an abortion the same way as  5 year old. The parents has invested more time with the 5 year old and built a relationship. If the 5 year old has siblings they will get devestated. I also think some pro-lifers think that the fetus don't feel as much pain as a 5 year because the development of the nervous system is not done yet. I don't think people will mourn over aborted siblings so much because a part of this is just the parents feeling sad for not getting kids. This is not the best argument because people will always have an excuse for creating life. I think it is important to make new arguments even if some fails.
From ever mother and father who has lost their child through miscarriage and mourned beyond anything you could possibly imagine, you are clueless. You've obviously have no idea what you are talking about. Have you ever even been pregnant? Your thinking is illogical and immature.
This is the closest I've ever been to removing something just because it was bad.
why is it bad?
Since getting an abortion prevents abortions then it does not make sense to criminalize it. If it is criminalized it only increases the population until it becomes legal and many people get abortions. The forced birthers would probably think that jesus or allah will be the victorious, and they don't realize that abortion will be legal once the superstitions have stopped taking place. Of course pro-lifers would have a really romanticed view on creating more people. Probably not a good video. I tought it sounded funny at first, but then i was reminded off all the negative christian websites that say abortion is like the holocaust and that i could make an argument based on this. I am happy that i can move on from this video and hopefully make something better.
It makes about as much sense as saying since killing every person on the planet would eliminate all crime and suffering we should blow up the world? Or is that what you are proposing?
In general once you get people to accept the extinction movement you can make all sorts of arguments.
Many pro lifers think that abortion is just like murder. On some christian websites they compare abortion to the holocaust. If being aborted is just like being in the holocaust then it is better to get the abortion instead of making more offsprings that will increase the population and give more abortions"holocausts acording to them". I don't think abortions are horrible myself, but by allowing people to exist they are creating more abortions. Most people will dismiss it because they think it is more important to create life, but maybe some people who think abortion is just like the holocaust will realize that taking the abortion prevents more abortions. I think procreation is immoral, but it is a difficult view to understand. Even if one don't agree with antinatalism it can give some realization that being borned is a harm if they live in poverty.
I mean this in the nicest way possible but, this is the stupidest shit I've ever seen on this sub.

My pro-life group on campus is trying to pull people in by asking people if they want to help eliminate racial genocide. They go on about how Margaret Sanger started Planned Parenthood with support of the KKK to reduce the black population. I've tried to look stuff up about her in the aspect of pro-choice but I can't find anything.

Read the article with interest, but I was surprised to learn things about Sanger that I didn't think the article did a good job of absolving her for. For instance, she worked with the KKK to achieve her birth control goals. She was extremely ableist. She feared that blacks might outbreed whites (sounds like people who talk about "white genocide" today). For all of these facts, the article merely says something like "thems were the times". It's honestly an unsatisfactory defense.
I mostly agree. Do you think Sanger is still relevant to today's policies and mission statement of PP? Or wording it differently, do you think her line of thinking around 45 years ago affects the practices, services, and mission statement of PP today? Or do you think she has become disconnected from it since her death (before abortion became legal). Question is open to anyone.
No, I don't think Sanger is inherently connected to what PP does today. You can't necessarily praise or condemn PP for Sanger. Although it might shed light on its initial mission and that may have some influence today, but probably none of the radical things from this article. I do, however, think it should make people pause before elevating her as a hero. She has a lot of baggage, even more than most others who have their skeletons.
It's been debunked eight ways from Sunday but that doesn't stop pro-forced-birthers from continuing to say it's true.
Being pro-choice isn't a religion, and Margaret Sanger isn't some blemish-free saint.  I can like the organization and dislike some of the ideas of its founder.  Thomas Jefferson had slaves but he still was an important figure for democracy. When I was a pro-life Christian, I  used to hear "hate the sin, not the sinner" but maybe a better one is "like the idea, not necessarily the person."
I've always wondered what the response would be if somebody was enthusiastically like "Oh, absolutely!  Their founder was racist, so I don't like them- instead, I support my local abortion and whole women's health clinic!  They only opened in 2006 and I haven't yet encountered them espousing any racist ideas." Because, you know, their problem isn't with Margaret Sanger's racism and the entire eugenicist movement that so many folks were down with at the time- their problem is with abortion, and they will thus use anything available to persuade people to oppose Planned Parenthood. The simple fact of the matter is that most people freely walk into Planned Parenthood (or other abortion-providing clinics) seeking or contemplating abortion; there's this disconnect where they will say Planned Parenthood is perpetrating racial genocide . . . but won't go as far as to say "Black women are being very racist by genociding themselves!".  It's patently ridiculous. And when it comes down to the numbers and disparities, it doesn't matter how often we patiently explain that higher abortion rates tend to correlate with higher incidences of unintended pregnancy (which is a whole 'nother stroll into our racist society- but one they seem much less interested in); they'd rather stick with shocking-sounding numbers to reinforce their messaging.
Margaret Sanger's racism is irrelevant. Besides, most white people were racist back then.
See here.
Why is this so freaking hard for people to grasp? The woman has rights over the fetus before it is born.
Legally in the US, fairly correct. Rights are given to natural born citizens. I'm only focusing on the born part, as naturalization opens a whole 'nother can of worms (yet not mutually exclusive) - . If they don't like it, they can try to amend the Constitution regarding the 14th Amendment. It's important to note here that I am not implying that legal = moral. These types of arguments were also used to justify slavery (the concept that all human beings are born with fundamental rights was not prevalent in the 1700's). Then there's bodily autonomy, which a common counterpoint is the "right to life". The "right to life" doesn't do much for amending the Constitution, because The Declaration of Independence is in a separate jurisprudence from the Constitution.
i'm 100% pro-abortion, too (and anti-euphemisms)... but ... are you like... making an interesting point or something? people who disagree would just say "i disagree."
It's called venting. I'm preaching to the choir.
oh. makes sense.
Why doesn't the fetus have the right to life until it survives pregnancy? This seems obviously wrong to me.
It isn't as simple as bodily autonomy.  If it were, one Siamese twin could kill another.  The real question at hand is what determines whether something has the right to live?  What I think is obvious is that it's based on an assumption by default that the being wants to live.  If we found out that cows understood and feared death, it would be grounds for banning beef for everyone instead of leaving it up to personal decisions.  In reality, cows don't grasp life and death, and fetuses are dumber than cows.
Siamese twins aren't the same. They often share vital organs. A fetus relies on the woman to stay alive and grow, the woman gains nothing from the fetus. And in some cases the Siamese twins have been separated due to the parents wishes in order for one of them to have an easier life, sometimes resulting in one of the babies demise.
If the fetus is a person, it has a right to live even though it's parasitic.  If someone was shrunken down to leprechaun size and somehow put inside somebody else, there would have to be a rescue operation.  The host victim would deserve as comfortable of a ride as possible, but we couldn't just kill the person inside them.  Fortunately, a human fetus doesn't so much as resemble a person.  A cat is more person-like.  It's fine to euthanize cats, so it's fine to kill (or euthanize, if pain is present) human fetuses. Whose organs are whose, if somebody is attached to someone else, doesn't matter.  What matter are the mental and emotional capabilities of each being.
Actually, if someone was shrunken down to the size of a leprechaun and put inside my body and was adversely effecting my health with the possibility of the entire situation leading to my death, I would have every legal right to kill the invader in self-defense. Pregnancy adversely effects a woman's health and can lead to her death. So, the question of "is a fetus a person" is irrelevant.
If there were a high likelihood of death and killing the little person would likely save your life, that would be different.  But if the situation were like a typical pregnancy, and you could realistically give birth to the little person and survive, you'd have a moral obligation to.  If you're in a situation in which you have to kill someone or die yourself, everyday morality doesn't apply.  But if both of you can live, both of you should live.  But fortunately, human fetuses aren't people and it's okay to kill them regardless of circumstances.
A. Because prolifers believe that this concept is not held consistently in similar circumstances by prochoicers. B. Because prolifers believe that the fetus is also a human person with equal rights. C. Because prolifers believe sure death is a much harsher outcome than nine months of a healthy and normal pregnancy.

When in history has this ever happened? Clearly if a woman has a scheduled c section she isn't going to abort. Terrible argument.
A. That's not a thing. B. If the fetus is past the point it is able to survive outside the womb, by definition it has survived pregnancy.

I wouldn't see a need for abortion if technology advances to the point where it's possible to extract an embryo/fetus without being any more invasive to the mother than an abortion would be, and another couple is able to adopt the fetus that way and pay for the artificial womb.

Yeah I mean abortion is about bodily autonomy, we're not terminating embryos just for shits and giggles.

The only point you're making is that anti-abortion propaganda is abundant and far too many people don't understand abortion, the pro-abortion side and the arguments for abortion.
Fetuses are not aborted, pregnancies are.
I respectfully disagree. You are aborting the fetuses right to life.
If somebody has twins and ends their pregnancy, have I performed one abortion or two?
It depends on how many human fetuses you killed. Did you kill one or two?
Well, no, it doesn't.  I've still performed just one.  Similarly, delivering twins is still one delivery. I mean, otherwise it could be three abortions -- one for each fetus and one for the pregnancy.  Or it could be an unknown number!  What if I don't know how many embryos there are, because it's very early in the pregnancy?  How am I supposed to bill for that? This is not a meaningful discussion.  It's a matter of definition.
Sounds like you are talking about the practical aspects of the job rather than what is actually taking place in the physical reality of it all.
If the fetus is to the point of an hour before delivery, barring exceptional medical circumstances, it has survived pregnancy. So no, they specifically say that it has rights then.
How would you propose the abortion would be conducted in that situation? Very late abortions usually involve inducing labor. Now, if you're aborting because your child is missing most of its brain or some other vital organ, which is why late term abortions are often carried out, it's not going to survive that process. But a healthy fetus is going to come out alive. Terminating a pregnancy at nine months is simply scheduling childbirth.
I was trying to use that as an example. Maybe I failed at that. Trying to say the statment OP said was also extremely over the top. It would be equal to a prolifer saying "Any time a woman gets pregnant she should always give birth, regardless of defects or rape."
I recently saw a post on r/dataisbeautiful about how most liberal and conservatives stick to their own groups of posting and sharing ideas and don't venture out very far into any opposing views. Where I see the appeal to that approach as I'm surrounding myself with people that agree with me, I do believe we are capable (myself and whoever chooses to as well) of having a civil discussion where we discuss differences of beliefs and opinions.My goal here is not to be antagonistic at all and I apologize as a male that I can not and will not ever understand the pressure, and complexity many woman face in regards to unplanned pregnancy. But at the core of my question is the question of life, is the fetus, specimen, tissue (whatever we call it) alive, human, sentient?I'm curious as to the philosophical, theological, and scientific proof that backs your opinion.(I put philosophical for those ho don have scientific research but are solid in their opinion based on logic)(I put theological because I've seen almost every religious group come down hard on both sides, individually at least)(I put scientifically because it in essence is a question of biology)TL:DR respectfully is an unborn fetus human? And proof.

But the vast majority of pro-life advocates actually agree that the life of the pregnant woman takes precedence to the life of the fetus. If pregnancy puts the woman's life is in danger, then of course abortion should be allowed. The problem is situations in which a woman's life is threatened accounts for LESS THAN 1% of all abortions currently performed in the US. The question (which you did point out) is this: At what point should we classify someone as a person? Should it be the point at which a being gains the ability to become aware of itself? If that's the case, should we consider newborns to have personhood? Humans do not become self-aware until about 18 months after birth. A person should never be able to take away the life of another person if that person has done nothing but exist (confusing sentence, sorry it's really the only way I could word it). Every person deserves the right to live a life. At the end of the day, since the goal here is to make sure that NO person has their right to life infringed upon, and since the definition of personhood will always unclear, why not assume that a being becomes a person earlier in development rather than later? This way no one gets their right to life infringed upon.
I actually buy the "err on the side of caution" argument when it comes to abortion, but in the exact opposite way then you. We don't know if a fetus is a person. We know for sure that the woman is a person. And since we normally don't control person's bodies if they have committed no crime, let's err on the side of caution and let women control their own medical decisions in this case, just as in other cases.
How do we know for sure? It wasn't to long ago that women were considered second class citizens.
Is that really your argument? That women aren't people but fetus' are?
My argument is that personhood is a subjective concept. Is it really your argument that you get to pick and choose who is a person and who is not based on your personal opinion?
No. It's my opinion that I get to choose which persons can use my body to sustain their life.
Exactly, it's an opinion. It really depends on what country you live and their laws. In fact, if you were a parent of a born child you would not get to choose in many circumstances since you would be bound to parental responsibility laws.
Er... and? You asked what my opinion was. I answered. And somehow that's a "gotcha"? Um... yea...? Isn't that the point of the debate? We're talking about our views on what the laws should be. Either you're being intentionally obtuse or you don't understand the difference between medical bodily autonomy and having responsibilities in your life (re: "i get to choose which persons get to use my body to sustain their life"). I can be more explicit in describing the difference if it is a confusing concept to you, but I have a feeling your vocabulary is not that bad.
I don't see where I asked for your opinion. I also do not see where we were debating. Medical bodily autonomy? Are you making up a new term now? I like how you have to squirm and revise concepts because the old one's are failing.

The thing is: Even if a fetus is a person, that person doesn't get the right to sit in my body for nine months. That doesn't mean I'd choose abortion if I got pregnant. It just means I'm not going to force a woman to carry a baby to term when she isn't prepared for what that entails.
Right, meant personhood, not species. My bad.
I'm a man who's pro-choice primarily because it seems right to me. That is, I've always been pro-choice, even when I didn't think deeply about it, it's a gut feeling. Having thought about it a long time, I'm still pro-choice for many reasons. Even though a fetus is human and is alive, it's not a person. Many abortions are done for medical decisions. It's impractical to expect all women to bring all fetuses to term. It's her body and her life.
Here are the ways in which prolifers would object to all your points, The fetus must have assumed personhood based on their humanity or human rights become futile. Less than 3 % of abortion are done for medical reasons. See here. A prolifer does not expect this. They expect the fetus to not be killed. It is the body of the fetus that is being killed during an abortion.
This makes no sense to me. That's not an argument. Evasion. A fetus is not a person.
Just saying so doesn't make it true. Explain why. It is because prolifers want to talk about elective abortions. Most if not all make exceptions for medical/theraputic ones. It is not an evasion. It is pointing out the reality that prolife does not means a fetus must be brought to term. Maybe viability if possible. Says you! Prove it!
I don't need to prove anything, these are my views.
You mentioned you thought about it for a long time and these were the compelling arguments you came up with so it seemed you were interested in putting them to the test. Apparently not. By the way, I am woman, been pregnant, given birth and am prolife. If you ever want to discuss your views further from another perspective feel free to message me.
Nope. No thanks.
I am pregnant. I am 19. I'm so small, pregnancy would be life threatening for me. I am the size of your average 12 year old female. Is the life of a 5 week old fetus more important than mine? Should this baby, who the father (my bf) doesn't particularly want, be considered more important than my life? I'm in college, I've had two jobs since I was 16. I'm a productive member of society. If I keep the baby, there is a very high risk of death or serious complications for me. I'm getting an abortion in 3 weeks. It's not that I don't have compassion, I cried for hours when I found out it has a heart beat right now, inside of me. But I'm more important than this, my life is more important than this. Humans are selfish, and I won't give myself up for something that can't even formulate thoughts.
Are you doing okay?
I am! Pregnancy symptoms aren't fun at all but I have a very supportive boyfriend and best friend, I qualified for a discount on my abortion so I can afford it, and I should have a weekend to recover :) It's been a week and although I am scared, I am at peace with my situation. Thanks for asking!
Good.  Sounds like you're at 5 weeks and planning on terminating at 8. My advice?  Make sure you have ibuprofen at home.  Have your place already be tidy and have your fridge stocked and your Netflix playlist lined up.
Yup, that's the plan! My bf will be taking work off for the weekend to help me with whatever I need. And yes, 8 weeks. I'm doing the surgical method anyways so it doesn't REALLY matter but I'm busy with work and school and that's the soonest date I could make to drive to the clinic or I'd be doing it sooner. Just sucks I have to pregnant for another 3 weeks lol. I'm sooooo tired of being tired!
Almost every prolifer makes an exception for the life of the mother. I am sorry you and your baby have to go through this. I lost a baby at 10 weeks and it was heart wrenching.
That's not exactly true, pregnancy is a risk for EVERY woman. I just have a slightly higher chance of death because I weigh 101, all women have a chance though. You should make an exception for every woman in the case that there is an exception for the mothers life. Pregnancy is always a risk for a woman's life.
This sound like pure fear mongering to me. Here are the stats, To a prolifer that would be like saying I can kill the person sitting next to me with the flu on a plane because I might get it (the flu) and die. The risk has to be significant or it is not considered a medical abortion but an elective one. Listen I don't know your situations and I do not want you to think I am criticizing you or judging you. I am woman and I have been pregnant. I have also given birth. The truth is that it really isn't so scary or bad. Pregnancy for the most part is very safe in a developed country. I do realize that there are cases where a woman's life is really at risk (ex: ectopic pregnancies, risk of preeclampsia) but to think that all pregnancies fall under this category is simply not true. It sounds like you are getting an elective abortion though. I mean my sister has 4 born children and gave birth and she weighed 100 pounds.
But there is a risk. And pro life generally wants to force women to take that risk. I am at a higher risk, so is your sister. And yes, it is an elective abotion. This has never even been a question for me. I don't want kids at all, actually. I like them, but I don't want any. My point was that it is ALWAYS a risk to some extent, its painful as hell too, so you would be forcing a woman to go through pain and life risk that she doesn't want to go through which is incredibly inhumane, and that this baby is NOT wanted. Pro lifers want me to take this risk, endure all this pain, for a baby that neither I or my boyfriend want to care for. That is inhumane to me AND the baby.
See my example about being stuck on the plane with a person who has the flu. There is a risk there but we still do not allow the passenger to kill the person with the flu. Generally the risk is so small that it does not justify killing (I am not commenting on your situation because I don't know enough about it. I am talking about 97% of pregnancies that do not fall under the high risk umbrella). Prolifers weigh the risks for both human beings. A normal pregnancy poses very little risk and an abortion is sure death. A prolifer would say, adoption. No one is forcing you to raise him or her. I mean, I am sure there are a lot of parents who do not want to raise their born children but we still don't say it is ok to kill them right? There are epidurals for the pain. In fact, many women who use hypno-birthing techniques report little to no pain. It seems more inhumane to allow one human being to be killed in order to alleviate another from temporary suffering. Well this I don't agree with. The baby is not wanted by you and the father. I want him or her :). I have adoption in my family. I also know that there are many, many couples looking to adopt. In fact, there are 36 couples waiting for every 1 adoption. See here. Here is the way a prolifer looks at it. It doesn't matter if a person is wanted by their parents or not. We do not get to kill a child just because they are an orphan. And sure death is a bigger sacrifice than pain. Pain can be managed, death can not be reversed. I think it is much more humane to give the baby a chance at life. I know many people who are not raised by their biological parents and none of them have ever said that they would rather be dead. Hope this helps to see the other perspective.
It's not a child to me, it's a fetus. I am an atheist. I don't believe in souls. I believe in science, so this fetus to me is just a clump of cells. It isn't a person, it isn't a child. That's where pro life and pro choice will never EVER see eye to eye. I am a human, I am a person. I am more important than a clump of cells. Idgaf if anyone wants this baby, I don't. So I won't carry it to term because it's my body and I get to decide what uses my body to live.
You don’t have to be religious or believe in souls to be prolife. See [here(http://www.secularprolife.org/abortion). Many people on the prolife subreddit are atheist as well. You don’t need to be religious to know abortion is wrong. Just like you don’t need to be religious to know killing a born baby is wrong. We are all just a clump of cells though. Whether the fetus is a human being is an issue that biology has already solved. See here. The issue of personhood is a philosophical one. Prolifers believe that all human beings are equal and ought to have the same basic human rights. Well I think all prolifers would agree that you are a human and that you are a person. But biologically speaking you are also just a clump of cells. I mean at 8 weeks the human fetus possesses more than 90% of the structures found in adults. See here. I think the question most prolifers would have is what you (or an adult) has that the 8 week embryo does not that makes you more worthy of human rights in your opinion? Well, my point was that the baby is not unwanted. There are many who would want him or her. Part of of what we are discussing is your body true. But abortion is about whether or not we have a right to kill someone else’s body simply because they are attached to us. I mean one conjoined twin can not just kill the other right so, I think the answer is definitely not on demand and without apology. When I was younger I bought into the prochoice rhetoric too. When I got older I thought logically about it more. When I was pregnant I couldn’t deny that there was a baby growing inside me. It was scientifically a no brainer. In the end, the prolife side seemed much more logically, compassionate and right to me. Hopefully some of this makes sense to you. If you have any more questions about prolife let me know. :)
I am capable of surviving on my own, I am not a parasite. If something is attached to me, surviving from my energy, I have the right to get rid of it if I want. You are HIGHLY downplaying what pregnancy is and it's quite manipulative. Pregnancy is actually very painful, many women have their ribs break, and their vagina torn to their anus. You are sick and exhausted for 9 months straight. I'm not willing to do that for a baby that I do not want. I'm not interested in pro life anything, pro choice is compassionate to people who are ALREADY ALIVE AND SURVIVING ON THEIR OWN MERITS. That's what I'll always choose. Thanks, but no thanks at all.
When my daughter was born she couldn't survive on her own. She needed to be hooked out to life support. She wasn't a parasite then and she is not one now. Being dependent (like a conjoined twin) doesn't make you a parasite. Sounds like something people need to tell themselves to justify killing or other atrocious behaviour. Not really. It is only the case (legally) with abortion and it is only the case in some countries. Many countries respect the right to life of the preborn child. And again, conjoined twins are attached. Morally it is always wrong to kill another human being as a solution to a problem (exception self defense). I've been pregnant more than once. And I've given birth. I think someone fear mongered you into thinking pregnancy is the worst thing in the world. And yes, I had vaginal tearing twice. I get it. It can be difficult. But in all honesty it is not that bad. And death is a much, much greater price to play. I can not imagine any sane person choosing death over 9 months of pregnancy. Unfortunately I don't think prochoice is very compassionate at all. They offer a band aid solution to a greater problem. Also, being alive and surviving on your own merit are two different things. You can be very much alive but still depend on others or other things (conjoined twins and life support patient were two examples I provided earlier). In reality, no one can survive independently of others. We need eachother to survive. As you grow older you might realize that things are not so black and white. That most people are trying to do their best and perhaps you will be more open to hearing views that differ from your own. Abortion is not always the easy route it is made out to be. Not only does a baby die but the mother (and father) can also suffer. I only tell you this because I know many woman who are very close to me (mother, sister, best friend etc.) who've had abortions for various reasons and suffered greatly after (physically, emotionally and mentally). One experienced a severe hemorrhage and almost bled to death, another has carried the regret and still others struggled with post abortion trauma. I am not saying this will happen to you but if it does do not be afraid or embarrassed to ask for help. Thanks for the chat. I hope all the best comes to you.

Maternal death Maternal death is defined by the World Health Organization (WHO) as "the death of a woman while pregnant or within 42 days of termination of pregnancy, irrespective of the duration and site of the pregnancy, from any cause related to or aggravated by the pregnancy or its management but not from accidental or incidental causes." There are two performance indicators that are sometimes used interchangeably: maternal mortality ratio and maternal mortality rate, which confusingly both are abbreviated "MMR". The world maternal mortality rate has declined 44% since 1990, but still every day 830 women die from pregnancy or childbirth related causes. According to the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) this is equivalent to "about one woman every two minutes and for every woman who dies, 20 or 30 encounter complications with serious or long-lasting consequences. Most of these deaths and injuries are entirely preventable." UNFPA estimated that 289,000 women died of pregnancy or childbirth related causes in 2013. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source ] Downvote to remove | v0.27
Thanks bot!
Whenever I hear this, I have the same question: what percent risk of death is significant?
Well you are an Ob right? I would say, when you tell someone that they are in a high risk category then they fall into the umbrella. I don't think we can pin down a number here but you and I both know that 0.02% is too small.
I tell people when they're at a higher risk of complications, but that's not a function of their risk being "enough" to warrant termination.  I tell people that they're at a higher risk of complications (death, fetal demise, malformations) because they have a sort of general gestalt feeling about how pregnancies go and I want them to understand theirs Do you think skydiving has a significant chance of death?
Higher risk is not at all the same thing as high risk. Let's not play games here. No I don't actually. I've looked into the numbers and it's really low. I went myself once. If someone is attacking me with a knife and I kill them to defend myself no one would argue that I did anything wrong. But if a person walked into my house all stuffed up with the flu and I shot them, we'd all agree that it was murder. So why do we all play games when it comes to abortion? I just don't see the point.
So if I came at you with a knife and told you I was going to inflict the kind of injuries that childbirth typically and routinely causes (genital tears, prolapse of pelvic organs), you wouldn't shoot me in self defense? Childbirth rarely kills in developed countries. It routinely causes pain, injury, trauma, and irreversible changes to a body.
Well first off I've had genital tearing twice. It's not that big of a deal. Fear-mongering about pregnancy is a regular thing here in this sub. If I decided to hold a child over a cliff and in their panic they began to tear at my limbs and scratch to reach for safety then no I would not let them go. I would try my best to pull them up to safety. And if I did let them go (considering I put them in that position in the first place) I would be criminally charged. Imagine conjoined twins. One sibling gets a sickness that renders her dependent on her brothers blood supply and internal organs. The doctors say she will recover in several months. After that a surgery to detach them can be performed very safely. There are small risks of complications but nothing too serious. No one would argue that the brother should have the right to kill his sister before those months are up. So, why argue it with abortion. It just seems like such a double standard.

If you need to talk you can DM me. I hope you're doing okay.
This might be a better question for /r/changemyview, which is a great place to go to get your current views challenged and to avoid echo chambers. I suspect that this question has been asked a number of times if you search there. FWIW I think for a lot of us on the pro-choice side don't view fetus sentience as the core issue, but rather bodily autonomy. See JJT's A Defense of Abortion: "I propose, then, that we grant that the fetus is a person from the moment of conception." Read her argument here - http://spot.colorado.edu/~heathwoo/Phil160,Fall02/thomson.htm If you will not entertain that argument, though, the CDC has about 92% of abortions in the first 13 weeks of pregnancy - https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/ss6208a1.htm?s_cid=ss6208a1_w Philosophically, what do you believe gives a human being a right to life? I think you would struggle to come up with something that gives a 13 week old fetus a right to life but doesn't grant a right to life to something to which you probably don't grant the right to life. (A unique human DNA code doesn't do it unless you want to grant the right to life to tumors. Potentiality arguments are philosophical trash because an egg and a sperm also have potential to become full humans, and I assume you don't think it's genocide if you masturbate... and around 50% of fertilized eggs are spontaneously miscarried so even by the numbers game potential ain't as great as you may think.) FWIW, being unable to draw a clear line between "no right to life embryo/fetus" and "yes right to life full human for sure" doesn't mean there is no difference, just as I would struggle to draw a perfect line between "poor" and "rich"... but clearly there is a difference between poor and rich. If you can accept that soooomewhere in there there is a point that a collection of human cells doesn't have full personhood rights, you're essentially making a weak pro-choice argument, and are likely approving of a very large percentage of abortions that currently happen, as most people abort quite quickly. Note: I do come from a bio background but I view abortion from very philosophical terms (and took a Philosophy of Reproduction class in college). I don't like arguing "is it human" or "is it alive" because that feels like arguing about weird technicalities. The questions are "does it have a right to life" and, a la JJT, "does its right to life supersede my right to my body"-- can you hook me up to another human against my will and say, "Yeah, you are required to keep this other human alive, at risk to yourself". A few other things you may be interested in: I think there is a serious minimization of how likely unplanned pregnancies are in pro-life circles. (An attitude of "only someone irresponsible could accidentally become pregnant") Here's a little more info on birth control failures over a 10 year span (vs a 1 year span, which is what we typically see reported... you have sex for a lot more than 1 year!) - https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/09/14/sunday-review/unplanned-pregnancies.html?_r=0 If you maybe think it might be that pooooossibly some very early abortions are okay, but anyone who gets a late term abortion is definitely evil, it may be worth reading a little about what kinds of reasons lead to someone getting late term abortions and what the current laws require of people who are stuck in fucking heartbreaking situations. No one carries a baby 8 months and then just decides they don't want it - http://jezebel.com/interview-with-a-woman-who-recently-had-an-abortion-at-1781972395 and https://www.theguardian.com/society/2017/apr/18/late-term-abortion-experience-donald-trump
In the end, this is what does it for me. You can't compel a dead person to give away rights to their body.  Why should you be able to compel a live person to do so?
It's a common question on /r/changemyview, so please OP be sure to look through the FAQ/common questions on section before posting.
Of course the fetus is human. Is it a person? I say probably not but I also ask: does it matter? Even if it is a person, that poses no issue to a woman's right to choose. If a fetus is a person, it is a person trying to use my body to sustain its own. I have a right to choose whether it is allowed to do so. Person or not. For me, abortion is essentially a question of my right to decide what happens in my body. It's also almost a self defense scenario, in that pregnancy is a potentially dangerous condition, medically, emotionally, and financially. Forcing me into a pregnancy is forcing me to put my life at risk.
a fetus is not a person, and cannot be a person—even if it "feels pain", reacts to "auditory stimuli", writes "staggering poetry", and "voted for Obama and canvassed for Hillary"—it cannot be a person, because a person does not put any other person's health in danger just by sitting there. A fetus does, even before childbirth, which is a whole separate toll on the pregnant person's health (and chance of survival). no person has a right to put your health at risk to keep her alive, so there's no reason for a fetus to have such a right. pregnancy is not a joke. it's a serious health risk, and even if you've had multiple uneventful childbirths, your next pregnancy could still kill you. people ITT referring to the pregnant person's autonomy are spot-on. in every other case where a person's survival depends on some rescuer putting their own health at risk, the rescuer gets to decide if they're okay with that. the person putting their body on the line always, ALWAYS gets to choose.
Your comment is pretty much why I'm pro-choice. We don't allow anyone to take the organs and blood of corpses against their (predetermined) will, so why should a fetus have rights that nobody else has. This is coupled with being educated of what happens when abortion is illegal. More women die (+ the fetus). It's not pro-life at all. Philosophically unfalsifiable and subjective arguments such as 'when does personhood begin' and the 'value of life' are futile to me. edit: futile to me except for thought experiments I guess if you wanna go down the rabbit hole of philosophy
When I think about who I am, I am not a genetic code.  I am not my body.  I am not even my brain.  I am a continuity of consciousness. If I had to pick which to keep, my genetic code or my body, I'd pick my body.  If I had to pick my body or my head, I'd pick my head.  My head or my brain, my brain. But if I had to pick whether or not to keep my brain, or the pattern of neuron interrelatedness in my brain that encodes my memories and my personality?  I'd pick that pattern. I feel like I post this a lot: https://www.rcog.org.uk/globalassets/documents/guidelines/rcogfetalawarenesswpr0610.pdf The best evidence I currently have is that this continuity of consciousness started at birth.  So I think that's when I started.
The major aspect of disagreement in the abortion issue is the two sides have drastically different stances on fetal right to life. The pro-life group thinks an embryo is equal to the woman carrying it. The pro-choice view sees the woman as having rights that should not be suspended in favor of her pregnancy. Is the embryo human? Genetically and developmentally of course it is. There is  a lot more to the issue thn species. Consider for a moment that about 60% of abortions occur to women who already have children. These are not teenagers facing first time pregnancies. They have been through pregnancy and birth already. They know what it does to their bodies, their livelihood, and their families. They choose to abort because, for whatever reason that is no business of yours, they feel unable or unwilling to carry to term. There is so much more to the issue thn whether or not the embryo is alive or human. Many pro-life people I have talked to balk at the idea of forced organ or blood donation and yet think nothing of condemning a woman to doing just that for the happenstance of having. Working uterus. It isn't merely 9 months, either. The body goes through tremendous physical and hormonal changes that can take up to 2 years to return to pre-pregnancy state. Add in that here in the US maternity leave is often unpaid. These is  tremendous stress on a person's financial situation on top of everything else. I can understand being against abortion. There are ways to dramatically reduce the number of abortions through education and access to birth control. Two things the pro-life camp is often opposed to, especially if they come from a religious/philosophical slant that tends to see pregnancy as punishment for sex. In the grand scheme of things I will always side with the born woman over the embryo in her uterus.
Well, see, one problem with that proposition is that clearly most people who go on the "pro-life" side don't demonstrate by their actions that they actually do make life qua life the core of their question. Do you favor mandatory blood donation? Mandatory organ donation? If not, then your argument isn't really that people, as a general category, have an obligation to make use of their bodies to continue the lives of others, but that specifically women do. And I'd say the argument that women, and women alone, have a special burden to donate their bodies for the wellbeing of others but that men are exempt from this requirement shows that the issue isn't really life. If your concern was actually, truly, no self deception, the preservation of human life then you'd favor mandatory blood and organ donation. Likewise, if your overriding concern was actually, truly, no self deception, preventing abortion then you'd be donating every cent you could spare to Planned Parenthood, because the science is quite clear: the only method that has ever succeeded at lowering the abortion rate is providing free, low effort [1], birth control. Especially to teenagers. Yet the overwhelming majority of "pro-life" organizations (even the Protestant or theoretically non-religious ones) are opposed to most or all forms of contraception. There have been "pro-life" arguments to the effect that any use of contraception is inherently anti-life. For me the answer to the question is pretty simple. I value actual human beings over potential human beings. I value the health, wellbeing, and bodily autonomy of women over the hypothetical humanity of fetuses. The idea of a government forcing a woman to carry a pregnancy to term against her will is viscerally repellent to me. Even rape seems like less of a violation. The very concept of a person's volition being ripped away from them forcing them to risk their health and lives simply because some religious fruitcakes have some beliefs seems like the plot to a horror movie, not a sane political position. [1] That is, implants, rings, IUD's, and so on, not the pill or condoms.
yup yup no. certainly not at the stages of pregnancy in which abortions routinely take place. It's physically impossible to be sentient without a functioning brain to give rise to that sentience. Even at birth, it's less sentient than many animals that are legally killed every single day for no better reason than "meat is tasty," which as justification is nothing in comparison to "this creature is growing inside me and could kill me on its way out".
"I'm prolife but..." "as a male..." I recommend /r/changemyview You shouldn't get a say in what women do with their bodies.
He doesn't get a say. He is 100% entitled to his opinion though. I am happy he is branching out and looking for different view points on a subject he already knows his stance on.
Well, regrettably by voting he DOES get a say. And increasingly that say is winning.
Very true. Thank you for your comment. That totally slipped my mind.
A fetus is alive, in the same way that cancer is alive. A (human) fetus is human, in the same way that (human) cancer is human. A fetus is not sentient, in the same way that cancer is not sentient. Heck, 2 month old babies aren't sentient (though I don't think we should kill them, since giving unwanted ones away to someone else is so easy). The interesting question is whether a fetus is a person. I don't think it is, in the same way that an acorn is not a tree. If you're interested in understanding the pro-choice position, I suggest reading A Defense of Abortion by Judith Jarvis Thomson. In it, she argues that even if you grant that a fetus is a person and has a right to life, abortion is still morally permissible because its right to life does not trump the mother's right to bodily autonomy. The analogies she uses (the violinist, the seeds in the screen door, etc.) are iconic these days, and aDoA is one of the most widely reprinted essays in all of modern philosophy (abortion-related or otherwise).
Philosophical: Even if a fetus IS a person, that person doesn't get an unalienable right to use my body for nine months. If I consent to allow that person to use my body for nine months, then fine, whatever, but if someone else doesn't consent and we force her to offer her body to someone else for nine months, that's violating her bodily consent. Period. I believe a fetus is a person, but I don't believe abortion is murder. Abortion is the equivalent of denying someone your kidney when they'd die without it - morally murky, but ultimately no one's going to charge you with murder for putting your physical needs over anyone else's. Also, you don't have a uterus. You literally have no horse in this race. Stay the fuck out of this. Theological: I'm a neopagan, so my belief is that everyone follows their own path for their own reasons. I don't ever bring my religious beliefs into conversations like this because I know that different people have different opinions on the matter. Scientifically: I think my philosophical belief properly explains my scientific beliefs, as well.
Why we shouldn't make laws about it I would think that all women, pro-lifers and pro-choicers would agree we don't want the government to decide when we can or can't have abortions.  Right now the government culture is very pro-fetus, and people are letting the government write laws over the objections of science and medical professionals.  Bad idea.  What happens if in 40 years the zika outbreak causes tons of birth defects and it's been enshrined into law that the gov't can decide when a life is viable?  There's a long history of forced sterilizations in this country, it's really quite a small leap to forced abortions.  I can easily envision a world where the US gov't forces poor women with babies with birth defects to terminate.  Get politicians OUT of this decision either way. Religious Logic: Why it's totally stupid to assume a "soul" happens at conception There is a 22-75% chance that a fertilized egg fails to implant.  So, up to 75% of pregnancies end in miscarriage in the first few weeks.  At 5 weeks pregnant, there's a 10% chance of miscarriage.  From there it continues to go down week by week.  But let's take a conservative view and say that 1 in 3 pregnancies end through miscarriage. Are you saying that 1 out of every 3 souls ever created never made it out of the womb?  That seems like a stupid design flaw.  If you want to talk souls, it's probably much more likely it develops over time (much like a human fetus).  Furthermore, Catholic dogma used to hold that a soul didn't develop until something like 4 months into the pregnancy for men and 6 months in for women.  So, the idea that we can just keep pushing back the "start date" of the soul every time we have some new scientific knowledge while ignoring how common miscarriages are is foolish. Certainly, anyone who isn't constantly mourning for the billions of miscarried souls can't really argue that abortion up to 6 weeks means jack-shit in regards to a soul. Politicized Fetus First off, abortion has always existed in different cultures throughout all of history.  And, frankly, before quickening (feeling a baby move inside the womb) it was never really considered abortion, just considered restarting menses.  As medicine got a little better at figuring out when someone was pregnant, certain attitudes came along with that frankly had a lot more to do with controlling women and the birth rate than protecting babies.  Even after RvW, you don't actually see an Evangelical backlash against abortion until the 80s Jerry Falwell up and decided there should be some politicizing issue to unite them and landed on abortion.  You can read about this, and it's actually pretty fascinating. You also need to understand the importance of the ultrasound image in this politicization of abortion.  Prior to the 1960s we didn't have a way to really image fetuses.  If you want to talk about pregnancy, you need to really include the mother in this conversation.  Enter the ultrasound image.  Now you can take a picture of a free-floating fetus that literally renders the woman invisible.  Now you can add some modicum of science to the idea that this fetus has autonomy.  The fetus is viewed on its own, floating there, very human-like and the woman is not a part of the picture at all.  That's fucked up.  Because that fetus isn't a free-floating baby, it's a fetus that is 100% dependent on the woman for survival.  There is no autonomy and it's absurd and disingenuous to talk about fetus and woman as separate entities.  They aren't, they can't be, not until much later in the pregnancy. Autonomy These questions are complicated.  But at the end of the day, the fetus needs the woman's body to develop into a baby.  The woman gets to decide what to do with her body.  For the same reason we can't just harvest bone marrow from living people without their consent, even though it will save a life, you can't just make a woman stay pregnant.  We don't even take organs from dead people if they haven't consented to it.  So as a culture we literally give dead people more rights than we give pregnant women.



That's unacceptable. It must be legalized.

Sssshhhhh troll....
lol troll harder.
Good point any trolling tips?


And during the same period benefits have been cut and tax credits for a third child scrapped unless the mother can prove the child was born as a result of rape

Here is the guy, he stood there with his sign and when people said they didn't want their children seeing it, he said 'all people need to see this, men, women, and children'. Seriously, fuck that guy, a little girl was so disturbed by the sign that she started crying, and even if there weren't children, there is a time, place, and way to start a discussion, at a city parade holding a graphic sign whilst being a dick and calling everyone there horrible for saying he should leave because people are just here to have a good time is not the time, place, or way
Goodness, I can't wait until this guy discovers what happens during some major surgeries, like hip replacements or some heart surgeries. Imagine the signs he'll carry! /s
If he didn't have his GoPro, one of the men there would have beat his ass and he likely would have needed a hip replacement. The guy who took his signs moved his arm like he was going for a punch but seemed to notice the camera and just take the signs instead
Well, the dude's a shithead and a liar, but I'm glad he didn't get assaulted over this. Not only is it just morally wrong, but you know he'd also just turn it into a martyr thing.
Oh of course he would, and it is very infrequent that people with delusions of martyrdom are taken seriously

It's a picture of a fetus aborted during the first trimester. It has a coin next to it to show approximately what size it is.
Has the picture actually been authenticated?  Because a lot of times they use later fetuses or miscarriages and pretend they are of early abortions.
I don't know. It says at the bottom that it's a first semester abortion so I just assumed it was.
I assume it's possible.  I can't tell the size because they are comparing it to a dime and then blowing up the image to make it look even bigger.  Which they're doing to over emphasize the size and get an emotional reaction.  A 12 week fetus is supposed to be the size of a lime, so it would make more sense to compare it to a quarter, but they can't do that because then there wouldn't be enough of a size difference for them. I looked up faked pictures of abortions, but this image didn't show up so I don't know.
As he presented it, it is fake because he claimed it was 7 weeks into pregnancy and the picture shows what appears to be the beginnings of the small intestines forming, something that doesn't happen until around the end of week 8
Of it is definitely fake if he is claiming that is an embryo at 7 weeks.  Every source I can find says that an embryo at 7 weeks development would only be the size of a blueberry. So about the size of the dime that fetus is next to.  I didn't know he claimed that it was 7 weeks.  I just saw the first trimester and thought he might have meant 12 weeks which is the end of the first trimester.
Even if it was 12 weeks I don't think it would even be that size at the end of the first trimester. That guy is a major piece of shit for ruining the days of several families whilst presenting falsified information
I think his picture resembles him; maybe related.
I read that most of those images are fake, is that true?
Not sure of most of them, but as he presented it that image is impossible because he claimed it was a 'picture taken of a child who was murdered in the womb seven weeks into the pregnancy', however there are several issues with that description, one of which being that the picture shows the beginnings of the small intestine being formed, something that doesn't occur until around the end of week 8 In addition the body proportions are way off, the body is too long and the limbs are way too short, in addition to the fact that it's head is both too small and seemingly is shaped much too similarly to an already born child and not a 7 week old fetus
Which is why I think most of their images are doctored, fake or misrepresentation.
Even if they are fake, showing that shit to 6 and 7 year olds is absolutely unacceptable
It is no doubt a huge issue. But the issue I do have is that they are being dishonest with the pictures.
That bothers me as well but if my baby brother was there to see that bullshit the GoPro wouldn't have saved that asshole
Just cross reference here.
Thank you for posting this.
Wow. That guy knows how to ruin a party. I'd say A) He needs to get his info in order and B) I don't think that's really the place to show that
The guy might annoy some individuals, but that never gives any individual the right to assault someone. Violence is never acceptable. I can think of a few subreddits that I was kicked out of because I used to think it was acceptable to post violent responses about certain issues (namely one issue - circumcision, but a few others too), but it isn't acceptable, and there are consequences for any form of violence, even mere threats can carry consequences. It's a big NO NO.
https://twitter.com/wholewomans/status/903719375269752832Tweet: We're offering NO-COST abortions to those affected by #HurricaneHarvey Call us: 877.835.1090 to see how we can help
Wow, I suppose it's expected, but the response on Twitter is just nasty. I can't imagine going through the fallout from Harvey AND unintentionally falling pregnant.
I know. That tweet did get attacked pretty hard. Some people aren't willing to open up their hearts and minds on that topic. And yeah, either of those events on their own can really push you to an extreme sense of hopelessness. I'm very happy that this provider exists down there. (This is also the one that had the legal battle with Texas about admit privileges and such. They were featured in the documentry Trapped which is now on Netflix)
I'll have to give that a watch, thanks.

According to Anti-Choicers if you don't have the money for an abortion it's still ok to have a child.
But yet they tend to be against government programs that would help the mother and baby.
and free birth control
Yup and they do not want to teach sex education! Too many things wrong.
That's because they don't care about children once they exit the womb... unless that child's mother needs welfare in order to raise them. Then they're parasites wasting "their" tax dollars.
If you have a local NARAL ask them if money donated to them goes towards grants and hotlines for women who cannot afford abortion services. Many of them do. When I was 17 I had an abortion, between having to use judicial bypass to avoid getting permission from my parents and being by myself through the entire process, having some peace of mind concerning the finances was especially helpful. I am so thankful for the grant I received and the amazing network of pro-choice people working in Minnesota. 13 years ago I had my abortion and every year since I've donated, it feels good.
Alabama has a state specific fund to help defray the cost for women who are struggling to pay. It s the Yellowhammer Fund.  Other states may have similar non-profits in place to help too. https://www.facebook.com/YellowFund/ https://twitter.com/yellowfund?lang=en
Of*
It's not worth your time to argue. 99% of the time they're coming from religious backgrounds with religious arguments that are impervious to any level of logical thinking.
The religious argument is specifically about the nature of souls. To them a fetus is a flawless soul that corrupts as it grows into an adult. Adults are flawed. Fetuses are flawless. Hence they have more value. By counterpoint, a non-religious argument would be about investment of society. A fetus is a potential investment. A Baby is an initial commitment. An adult is a realized investment. We should think of adults as gaining value over time, not losing it.
And once they have original sign, fucks are no longer given. As I said, don't bother arguing with them because they have the argument of a sociopath.

Um yes we are. And If you guys are waitsting your time arguing with us on facebook, then its pretty clear to me you guys don't have anything better to do with your time
The most frustrating part for me is that they see other people's decisions as their business. If a pro lifer wants to avoid abortion herself, great! (Of course, too often the pro lifer doesn't even have a uterus...) But to extend their beliefs to a whole country of people is just fucking infuriating. I know it's more complex, with supposed freedom of religion and economic reasons, but it really isn't. Just mind your own damned business. Simple.
Most do not understand biology either. I literally had to keep posting, for one reddit user who was anti-abortion, correcting his mistakes.
Big hint: pro-lifers don't see the fetuses as potential lives, but rather as present lives and as persons. That may help understand it.
With only a 70% survival rate. You'd think God would have created better odds if he cared so much about fetuses.
Where did you get this number from? This is a figure for a birth at 24 weeks (8 months). After 27 weeks (9 months) of gestation the percentage of successful births is over 90%. See - https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fetal_viability
You're looking at the wrong statistics. "Fetal Viability" is the chance  "ability of a fetus to survive outside the uterus at a given week". Not the odds that it will come to term. The 30% estimate is based on a sperm fertilizing an egg. A "miscarriage" could be a failure for the fertilized egg from implanting on the uterine wall or just getting aborted naturally due to hormone levels being off. It's the whole statistic right from the start. The reality is that the human body aborts fetuses all the time. The reality is that the majority of miscarriages happen without the pregnant woman even realizing that she's pregnant. It will come across like a heavy period. https://datayze.com/miscarriage-chart.php
Fetal viability Fetal viability or foetal viability is the ability of a fetus to survive outside the uterus. [ ^PM | Exclude ^me | Exclude from ^subreddit | FAQ / ^Information | ^Source ] Downvote to remove | v0.27
Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fetal_viability HelperBot v1.1 /r/HelperBot_ I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 106798
There's a vast chasm between unintended deaths and willed deaths.
Humans created that chasm not because we abort fetuses but because we improved on healthcare so much that it's rare that fetuses die unintentionally. And since we're using the word "life", may I remind you that weeds and mosquitoes are life. We all place a varying measure of the value of life all the time. A fetus is just a potential person. It's the social value we place on it that gives it meaning. This is why a family can be devastated during a miscarriage and why an abortion can be a moral decision in recognizing that it would damage an existing person's life and that potential new person's life.
I didn't want to get pedantic, but the reason I included the term "person" was to shift the emphasis away from life (which isn't extremely special as you pointed out). Pro-lifers believe fetuses ARE persons, not merely potential persons. In any case, my point stands. There is a moral difference between something unintentionally dying and something being intentionally killed.
This conversation by nature needs to be somewhat pedantic. I too switched to "person" in my goal to be clear in what I meant. Sure, a cluster of cells is life. So is a weed and a mosquito. So, "life" doesn't have a specific value. I think your shift in word usage implies that. So, the reason I say that a fetus is a potential person is because they don't yet have value as a person. In the early days of development, the value of a fetus is nothing more than the value conferred on the fetus, usually by the parents. They are looking forward to their baby. They are also willing to take the risk involved in having a child, both the biological risks of bringing a fetus to term and the risk of raising that child and the consequences of that. This is why when a couple miscarriages, they can be emotionally devastated. They have invested emotional value that they've lost. When a baby is born, there's a value attributed to it. The collective group of people who have brought this baby to term and even society itself has said "We've made a commitment to see this baby grow into an adult." Some societies are better than others in this supportive process. Then a human starts developing it's own value. In it's learning and eventual contribution back to society. As people gain knowledge and wisdom, they just become more and more valuable. This is where I am at odds with religion. The concept of a soul and sin reverses this value. It sees a soul-infused fetus as being equal to that of any other human and more over as we grow and sin, religion views us as eroding. As collecting more and more sin in our life. And as such, an adult has less value than an "innocent child". This is a backwards perspective and it depends on undemonstrative concepts like a soul and sin. As for Pro-Lifer's conferring value on someone else's fetus. It's meaningless unless they are willing to support the mother during their pregnancy and childbirth and willing to adopt the baby. From my moral perspective, abortion is just doing that which happens naturally anyway.
Keep in mind OP was asking about where pro-lifers are coming from and I was helping to shed light. I appreciate you sharing your own philosophical position, but bear in mind pro-lifers fundamentally disagree with you there, hence the difference in conclusions about abortion. Also, for what it's worth, I completely reject any notion that the value of people decays with time. I personally believe all humans are of equal worth regardless of what they've done or who they are. I'm guessing you disagree with people in China who dump their female infants into trash cans to die. Yet you probably haven't volunteered to adopt any. Are you saying you can't be allowed to oppose infanticide in China unless you are willing to adopt? Consider the implications of this rigid view. I mean, death is itself natural? How does your view not justify all killing, indiscriminately?
China's moral failing is in the selection of male over females. That's pure unadulterated sexism. It has nothing to do with abortion. Although in t he case of China, at least abortion would be more humane than dumping babies in dumpsters. That presumes there aren't other moral measures that govern the killing in general. That said, I think euthanasia in certain cases to be moral. There are some who suffer from illness where their quality of life is not worth the pain. I'm glad society is re-evaluating these moral concerns.
I think I wasn't clear here. My main point is that according to your reasoning, we can't place value on Chinese dumpster babies unless we are willing to adopt them. More broadly, we can't oppose the killing of any baby unless we are willing to adopt it. Is this your view? My point here was that your reasoning seems to permit ALL killing. If abortion is just bringing about something natural (death), then so is all killing. Isn't murdering an innocent family in cold blood just bringing about something natural, albeit a bit earlier?
My response is that the chinese baby argument isn't relevant because the moral failing isn't in abortions but in the sexist cultural view. The argument just doesn't apply. You're ignoring my argument for my aside. There are other moral justifications for not killing in general that don't apply in the context of abortion.

Future voters.
Aren't we all Cells and Tissue? Don't we all have hearts pumping blood? Don't we all have brainwaves? Don't we have two arms, two legs, a torso, and a head? Doesn't a fetus have these things?
AFAIK a fetus doesn't have a developed brain.
The hert beats, the Brain functions, and they feel pain at 8 weeks
So like I said, I myself am Pro-Life, but I love to debate, here it is :).Abortion: America’s Biggest KillerAbortion is a very contentious issue in the American political sphere. There is a wide difference of opinions on the issue, many say it is an issue of privacy, life, or rights. Opinions run wild across the political spectrum, often creating vitriol. Well, this piece most likely won’t help, but it is the truth and should be said, no matter how gruesome. And that is, abortion should be outlawed by the Federal Government because it is the taking of life, it is immoral, and it is illegal under the U.S. Constitution. These are some hefty claims, but they are more obvious than they may seem.I want to first start by establishing some scientific fact. The most important fact is, a human zygote is composed of unique HUMAN cells and unique DNA independent of the mother. This very combination makes it genetically distinct from all other humans. (Mayo Clinic) The zygote is a completely different human organism from the mother, and those who would say that it is no different from her appendix in that it is a part of her body that doesn’t contribute have a flawed scientific backing. We understand that all 46 chromosomes are present in the zygote and that they are unique to the zygote. Science is progressing extremely fast and gender can now be determined from a simple blood test of a pregnant woman who is 12 weeks along. (Doctor Testimony) Not only gender, but researchers have found every single trait that chromosomes design for a human in the earliest stages of pregnancies. That would have astounded scientists from the turn of the 21st century and as science progresses more evidence for choosing life abounds. But even with all this new and convincing evidence, we can fall back on some old tried and true principles. The four basic principles of life are organization, growth, reaction to stimuli, and reproduction. The human embryo can meet all of these standards with ease. I would also beg the question, can we use the reverse standard of death, to form a standard of life? Examining further, to be clinically dead, your heart must stop, then would the formation of a heart perhaps mark life? Well, if so, the heart begins to beat on the 22nd DAY of pregnancy, rendering large amounts of abortions murder by that standard ALONE, our previous standards withstanding. But to form a more rigorous definition of death, physicians will often use the stoppage of all brain activity as medically dead. Again, this standard alone would render Embryos life after the 40th day, when brain waves start. (Mayo Clinic)  But with those basic principles determined, let’s look at the testimony of trained OBGYNs and Biologists. The first few individuals I’d like to discuss are Professors at the Science departments of well-respected universities. These people stood in front of the Senate and testified their views on life. Micheline Matthews-Roth, who teaches at Harvard, says this: I oppose the use of embryonic stem cells because to obtain those cells it is necessary to kill a growing human being. We know from embryology that a new life begins with the formation of the zygote, the cell formed by the union of egg and sperm in fertilization -- this is scientific fact, not religious doctrine. What makes us human is not our looks or mental attributes, but the human chromosomes and genes which we have in our cells from the zygote stage throughout our life. We should not condone killing a member of our species, even for a good reason. (NPR) That pretty much confirms the facts stated above. However, there is more, Dr. Alfred Bongiovanni said this : I have learned from my earliest medical education that human life begins at the time of conception.... I submit that human life is present throughout this entire sequence from conception to adulthood and that any interruption at any point throughout this time constitutes a termination of human life.... I am no more prepared to say that these early stages [of development in the womb] represent an incomplete human being than I would be to say that the child prior to the dramatic effects of puberty...is not a human being. This is human life at every stage. (NAAPC) Jerome Lejeune, often considered the Father of Modern Genetics, said To accept the fact that, after fertilization has taken place, a new human has come into being is no longer a matter of taste or opinion. The human nature of the human being from conception to old age is not a metaphysical conception. It is plain experimental evidence. (NAAPC) I could go on with that exact same philosophy repeated out of the mouths of at least 5 more world renowned scientists who have made such statements, but I think the point is perceived.But, there is one final medical reason for the abolition of abortion. To this I refer to Dr. Bernard Nathanson, the co-founder of NARAL, the largest pro-abort political action group, and Abby Johnson the former Director of Planned Parenthood. Scientific fact says, fetuses can feel pain and react to their surroundings. Neither of the Former Pro-Abortionists believed this. Pro-Choicers will often say that reactions from babies in the womb are not available until 26 week, this has been disproven as above, but it wasn’t until the Now Pro-Life abortion Doctors experienced their first ultrasound abortion.  Early in the 70s, ultrasounds were just being developed, as the first one rolled into Dr. Nathanson’s office, he was thrilled to witness his work. As his colleague began, all that changed. He watched as the baby was pulled apart, he went on to write his book “Aborting America” in which he said, “I am responsible for the death of 60,000” and called abortions “humanity’s greatest holocaust”. He made the film “The Silent Scream” to highlight the process of abortions and what really happens during the process of ending a pregnancy. Little did he know that 40 years later a young woman would experience much the same. As Director Johnson was pulled in to assist on an abortion, she noticed an ultrasound, she didn’t give it much mind, she had never seen an abortion performed, but as the abortion started she saw a fetus pop onto it, she the 13 week old bouncing and swimming away from the forceps that was chasing it like a mad dog locked onto its prey, the fetus fought but lost, as the tool sucked the child apart the child limb from limb. Director Johnson resigned that day and never went back. (Abby Johnson) Those two stories are just 2 doctors among at least 2,500 members of the Pro-Life OBGYNs, a group of doctors who reject abortion and some of them, former abortionists. (AAPLOG) In fact, Dr. Nathanson has repeatedly debunked the false statistic that illegal abortions mean dangerous and deadly ones. Well first, even in a legal abortion, you are losing the life of a child, and consider this on Maternal Death. Firstly, let us consider, how do we know the number before abortion was legalized, we don’t. So any number is purely speculative. Secondly, Dr. Nathanson even said: How many deaths were we talking about when abortion was illegal? In NARAL we generally emphasized the drama of the individual case, not the mass statistics, but when we spoke of the latter it was always "5,000-10,000 deaths a year. I confess that I knew the figures were totally false, and I suppose that others did too if they stopped to think of it. But in the 'morality' of our revolution it was a useful figure, widely accepted, so why go out of our way to correct it with honest statistics? The overriding concern was to get the laws eliminated, and anything within reason that had to be done was permissible.That is pretty damning, but it get’s worse. In 1960 Mary Calderone, a Planned Parenthood board member speculated that 9 out of 10 abortions were performed by licensed doctors and said: they are physicians, trained as such...Abortion, whether therapeutic or illegal, is in the main no longer dangerous, because it is being done well by physicians. In fact, many women have died since abortion’s legalization. But we wouldn’t know because the states with the most abortions (California, New York, et. al.) often don’t need to report maternal death rates. And even in states that do, doctors can record the Cause of Death as, a “hemorrhage” never reported that it was abortion-induced. Now, I concede that here in the states, the data is circumstantial and requires critical thinking, so let’s look abroad for cold hard facts. In Ireland and Malta, the UN reported maternal deaths lower than in the US, and they are extremely Catholic and Anti-Abort nations. And in Poland for another example, the Polish Health ministry reported that maternal death rates dropped when abortions were banned. (FRC) And let’s take a minute to talk about Planned Parenthood. Planned Parenthood says that 3% of what it does is abortion, but there is a reason why Slate, of all websites, calls it “The Most Meaningless Abortion Statistic ever” and why the Washington Post called it “Very Misleading”. But let’s look at the numbers. According to their annual report, Planned Parenthood commits an average of 325,000 abortions a year. That averages to 1 abortion every 97 seconds. But let’s talk about how much of what they do is abortion, the original query, well, the 325,000 abortions a year divided by last year’s total patient count of 2.5 Million Patients. That mean ONE out of every EIGHT women who walk into a Planned Parenthood, not one in thirty-three, ONE in EIGHT. In fact, they commit 160 abortions for every adoption referral. Let’s talk about what else they do now, they do .97% of the nation's Cervical Cancer screenings, 1.8% of the nation’s Breast Exams, and of course, THIRTY-ONE PERCENT of the nation’s abortions. That’s right, 31%. Let’s not forget they do not offer prenatal care. But that is a PR problem, so how, do they get that 3% figure? They measure everything in “services”. What is a service? An abortion is, but so is a simple pregnancy test. An Abortion which can cost up to $1,500 is weighed the same as a $10 pregnancy test. So if a girl walks in for an abortion, she will get a pregnancy test, the abortion she came in for, an STI test, and a packet of contraceptives. During the visit she got 4 services, she scheduled an abortion, but according to Planned Parenthood, what she did was only 25% abortion. In fact, using this method if all Planned Parenthood patients received an abortion they could claim only 25% of what they do is abortion. Planned Parenthood gives 9.4 million “services”, divide 325,000 by that, you get 3%. And let’s not forget that abortion has a 31% stranglehold on the abortion market, bigger than Samsung on TVs and Chrysler on Cars. So let’s call it for what it is, Planned Parenthood is big business, a big abortion business. One that uses the foulest means of abortion to make a buck. What are those methods, we haven’t even gotten into the full nastiness of Planned Parenthood? We have had doctors from Planned Parenthood talk about using “less crunchy” techniques to harvest the parts of the child. Or perhaps when a different doctor explains the ease with which baby eyeballs and intestines can be extracted. And of course when doctors haggle over the prices of the parts standing in front of a tray filled up with said parts. But it gets much worse when we talk about how the children are harvested. During the first trimester, doctors plunge a tube with an edged tip into the cervix they use the suction part of the tool to rip the child limb from limb while it is still alive and collects it in a vat. This is the type of butchery Director Johnson experienced, it is called Suction Aspiration, but as time goes on, the methods become much more Orwellian. Try Dilation and Curettage where a curette is used to chop the baby up and scrape it right up. How about Dilation and Evacuation, where doctors use forceps to crush the baby, including the now developed Brain and Spine, but this usually results in unusable parts. So what do they use to save the parts, they use Intact Dilation and Extraction, otherwise known as Partial-Birth Abortion. Doctors will use an ultrasound to find a baby’s legs, use forceps to pull them into the birth canal, they deliver the entire baby, except the head, at which point they stab the child in the neck severing the now developed cerebral cortex and ending the child’s life, even while most of it has been delivered into the world. Then, of course, you could side with Former President Barack Obama who supported Post-Birth abortion, that is right, he said that if your doctor somehow botched an abortion before birth, and the child was delivered alive, that killing it post-birth was a protected right. You ask me, that is infanticide. So, I ask, when a fetus can move away and detect the pain and the suffering, how is that a safe medical procedure? When from the moment of conception, you are dealing with new life, how is that a “moral” operation? And that when the vast majority of this operation is performed where a forceps is used to pull the fetus apart, or where a vacuum is used to suck it into a collection vat, sometimes heart still beating, how is that ok by society? And when the biggest medical argument against illegalization is a House of Cards promulgated by decade old lies. How is this an act to be defended? If you ask 2,500 of our nation’s finest caretakers, it’s not, it’s murder. And from the date of this article’s publishment, the cause of death of just under 60 million Americans. Compare that to every American killed by war, 1.2 million.Now that we have covered some scientific reasons against abortions and we have established an unborn child as life, we can delve into the legal world. But to compose any good legal argument for or against abortion, we must look at the crux of the issue in law, Roe v. Wade. The first thing we need look at is what Roe decided. Most Americans would think that Roe created a limited right to abortion. In fact, the court did just the opposite, they said, We need not resolve the difficult question of when life begins. When those trained in the respective disciplines of medicine, philosophy, and theology are unable to arrive at any consensus, the judiciary, at this point in the development of man's knowledge, is not in a position to speculate as to the answer. (Roe v Wade) Ok, fair enough, that decision is from 1973, scientific evidence for Life wasn’t nearly as strong, however, instead of cautiously allowing science to deliver an answer, or revise the decision once evidence came out, they created an unlimited right to be abortion, albeit one that can be stymied by States at the arbitrarily created “point of viability”.  However, we can also find a sentence in the ruling in Roe’s companion case, Doe that says this : We agree with the District Court, 319 F.Supp. at 1058, that the medical judgment may be exercised in the light of all factors --physical, emotional, psychological, familial, and the woman's age -- relevant to the well-being of the patient. (Doe v Bolton) That means that a doctor can override a restriction if he deems a woman in “emotional” duress because of carrying a pregnancy to term. In fact, we can even look at the cases of abortions being defended by the Prosecutors, the woman that sued Texas and Georgia, were in fine health and simply did not want to carry the child to term. (FRC) Now you may ask, “Where did this ruling come from, surely the Court must have had a Basis?” Well, that basis came from a “right” not even written in the Constitution. Both the Doe and Roe ruling reference an inherent Right to “Privacy”. The word privacy is never even used in the Constitution. (Constitution) This “right” to privacy that was ruled upon, made abortion completely an issue of Women’s Health. Well, we have established life from conception and when the court overlooked it and wrote that they need not determine life to rule on it in the earliest stages, they effectively made complete abortion legal, on a basis of a “right” not found in the Constitution. When the court authors an opinion, that sends the signal for ALL law enforcement to uphold EVERY single letter of it, sometimes that can have ill wished consequences. In fact, even Liberal Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg sees it as an issue of equal protection, and not “privacy”. She even said in an interview with a Kansas newspaper “It is not the way courts generally work”.  And even off the bench, Pro-Choicers are singing a similar tune with John H. Ely of Yale saying: “because it is not constitutional law and gives almost no sense of an obligation to try to be.”  And best of all, the Clerk of Justice Blackmun, the authoring Justice, called it: “one of the most intellectually suspect constitutional decisions of the modern era.” But beyond just mere opinion, there are verifiable sources in U.S. Law. For example, When we look at the 5th and 14th Amendments, they contain what is called the Due Process Clause. In the 5th it reads: nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law. And when we take a look at the 14th, it sounds rather familiar: nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. To me, having established life at conception, that seems rather a clear cut, but there is, even more, some would have the fetus exempted from citizenship, but as a fetus is a person, that comes into conflict with both Title 8 of U.S. Code and Article II of the Constitution. Both establish that birthright means citizenship. We can find that from the apparentness of Life at Conception, there is citizenship. Even the American people as a whole seem to be catching on, 61% of Americans believe that once a fetal heartbeat begins, abortion should be illegal, as we have discussed this occurs much earlier than most would think. In fact, Most Americans, 53%, would not overturn Roe, however, when explained that Roe creates an unlimited right to abortion, that contrast these numbers, only 6% of Americans agree with this unlimited right, 86% agreeing with banning 3rd trimester bans, 72% with 2nd, and a further 61% with heartbeat bans as said above. (Gallup/Ipsos)  However, these numbers do drop in the cases of rape or incest. If we delve further however into this issue, we see in a survey conducted by the Pro-Choice Guttmacher Institute, we see some interesting polls on why abortions happen. We see that 92% of abortions are purely elected. Less than 1% are Incest and rape driven, combined. And even then, I ask, why should a child get the Death Penalty for the crimes of the father. Why should a child conceived in rape, be executed, when even in the 2008 case of Kennedy v. Louisiana, the Supreme Court ruled that a 400 lbs. man that raped his 8-year-old stepdaughter could not be put to death and overruled his sentence given to him by the Louisiana jury. (Kennedy v Louisiana) If even HE cannot be legally executed, a child rapist, why should any child conceive of rape be murdered for their father’s heinous crime, when he himself, cannot be? This among the myriad Constitutional provision and standing legal precedent is why the illegality of abortion is truly the most unenforced standing law in the nation, at a dire cost.The final field in which we examine abortion’s many nuances is its morality. This topic trickier than either Medicine or Law is often divided into two camps, Morality from Religion, and Morality based on secular foundations. There is an argument against abortion to be derived from both. For the religious viewpoint, we can look no further than the Bible itself. But before I delve directly into the verses that I find most damning, there is an elephant in the room. The Bible NEVER specifically references abortion. For one reason only, in the time before Jesus until afterward when Paul composed the final books, abortion was so unthinkable that it was an unwritten law. Infertility was seen as a curse, and pregnancy a gift, so the Prophets didn’t need to write anything about its evil. That view about the sacredness of the family had vanished, but the Bible, and its verses on the beauty of God and his gifts haven’t. The first few verses are about King David and his relationship with the divine. Starting with Psalms 139: 13-16 which reads: For thou hast possessed my reins: thou hast covered me in my mother's womb. I will praise thee; for I am fearfully and wonderfully made: marvelous are thy works; and that my soul knoweth right well.My substance was not hidden from thee, when I was made in secret, and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth.Thine eyes did see my substance, yet being unperfect; and in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them. This reaffirms Genesis 2:7 which says: And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul. Both of these powerful passages make a point to say how much care that God puts into forming babies in the womb. But there is much more, in Psalms 51:5 we see the truth, that unborn children are responsible for original sin from conception when it says: Behold, I was shapen in iniquity; and in sin did my mother conceive me. And in Genesis on 3 separate occasions is the likeness of God confirmed, in 1:26-27, 5:1, and 9:6. And again, we can see that, though God’s perfect image was affected in the fall of man from Eden, it was not erased. This can be read in 1 Cor. 11:7 and James 3:9. We can also see in Romans 5:12 and Hebrews 7:10 that the unborn child receives original sin and is morally accountable at conception, as all unbaptized humans are. Romans reads: Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. And in Hebrews, we find: For he was yet in the loins of his father, when Melchisedec met him. And even beyond this level of biblical morals that God wishes to follow, we must look no further than Exodus 21:22-25 to find the sanctity of the pregnancy in Jewish culture. In Exodus it says this of the death of unborn: If men who are fighting hit a pregnant woman and she gives birth prematurely but there is no serious injury, the offender must be fined whatever the woman’s husband demands and the court allows. But if there is serious injury, you are to take life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound, bruise for bruise.To me that is rather clear that the death of an unborn is taken just as seriously of that as a born child. At this point, I think that everyone that treats the Bible with great reverence as a book of worldly wisdom has come to understand the immorality that abortion embodies. But even for Secular folks, their philosophies as decent people are sure to be challenged by the non-religious issues posed. The first few standards are imposed by Roe. Beginning with what was discussed earlier, Roe draws some lines, one of the most infamous being that of the viability point. Ruling that before a child is viable to survive outside the womb, abortions ought to be legal, however, the first bit of our time together was disputing when a child became life, and that was conception. Life is Life, even if it needs to be nurtured. Would you consider a deer that was hit by a car and needs to be nurtured and have medical attention to not be alive, even if you left it alone it would die? Would you feel this way of your grandmother of brother that needs emergency care? This is the standard Roe set, and it’s unacceptable. Another hallmark of Roe is their trepidation separation of separating humanity from personhood. The ruling confirmed, that even if a human, the legal definition of “persons”, may not apply. This opened up a way for some radical definitions of personhood to be proposed. Ones that proposed, not biological definitions of life or personhood, but cultural ones. Francis Crick said with Nature magazine a child was considered to be legally born when two days old, it could be examined to see whether it was an ‘acceptable member of human society. And it was famed Anthropologist Ashley Montagu that stated A newborn baby is not truly human until he or she is molded by cultural influences later. (Probe) And Professor Joseph Fletcher perhaps holds the most blood-curdling view, writing in his book, Humans without some minimum of intelligence or mental capacity are not persons, no matter how many of these organs are active, no matter how spontaneous their living processes are. (Probe) He would go on to use 40 IQ as a benchmark for personhood.  These are not just arguments supporting abortion’s supposed morality, but infanticide, and the last one, the murder of the most vulnerable in society. Now that we have covered some of the current standards imposed by the courts, and the opinions on them, we can look at the true value of the unborn. Now, some people would say that fetuses have no rights. This included the Democratic nominee for President this year, Hillary Clinton. (Richardson) However, even IF an unborn child is not a person, and we can disregard all juxtaposing information on that and the life of the child, I would ask this. Even if the child is not a person, why is it afforded no rights? There are many animal rights groups, surely they don’t think that the animals are people, but they do believe they have rights. I myself agree, they are living beings and should be treated respectfully. However, many of the members of these animal rights groups, such as PETA, take an interesting stance on abortion. MANY members of animal rights groups are rather militant liberals, yet, when they say they animals should be given rights perpendicular to human rights, they omit the unborn. They never seem to say, “Hey at least in some stage this baby becomes a baby”, even if they don’t recognize life at conception as modern science had granted us. This hypocrisy really is both repulsive and mind-boggling. But it doesn’t get any better from there. A fetus has value, I think we can all agree, an infinite value in fact, of endless possibilities of a new person in the world. When a mother plans on carrying a baby to term, that baby is seen as having almost infinite value, yet, when pulling in for the insidious practice of abortion, that value goes away. Why doesn't the mother get to decide the value of her child? And say, in a tragedy, a pregnant woman, is murdered, the assailant is charged with murder of course, but how many times? Two counts, or just one? Does the death of the fetus mean another murder to be prosecuted for? Hard to say, but if you follow liberal abortion theory the answer is clearly no, that life is not found in the womb. Now that we have discussed some philosophy and principle behind the issue, I want to paint you a picture. Imagine a woman. Her husband has just left her, and she is to move in with her parents. However, she has a problem, her parents don’t know what she does. The absent father impregnated her and she is faced with a choice. Does she get an abortion or not, being a devout woman she goes to the nearby church and is convinced to choose life. That woman’s name is Ann Dunham, she is no longer with us, but her child is. You see, thirteen years after Ann had passed, her son was elected the first Black President in American history. The man that supported radical abortion, was the very one who grabbed life from its deadly jaws. The woman who wasn’t quite ready for a child gave birth to a leader of the free world (By The People), so I would implore all mothers, before choosing an abortion, think about the unlimited value your child could possess. So after all that heavy moralism, I want to end on a happy note. Just something in our society that already recognizes life in the womb. If you believe that a baby is part of a mother’s body, do walk up to her and say, How’s your Body? No, I would hope not at least, you say How’s the Baby? You recognize that the baby is a separate being with its own welfare. These values are recognized across the spectrum of humanity, from the secular to the non-secular. They aren’t values that can be easily cast aside nor should they, they just need be exposed to shine their proud light, much like the children they protect.So, now that I have presented the facts, the evidence, and the morals, it is your turn. I would ask you to understand the medical evidence, the law, and the beliefs of the philosophies of the world, ranging in value. And I would ask you to choose a side, choose what you can do to help society, and after all that I have said about the above, I would plead you, choose life.Works CitedAnderson, Kerby. "Arguments Against Abortion." Probe Ministries. Probe Ministries, 08 Feb. 2017. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. https://www.probe.org/arguments-against-abortion/.Schwarzwalder, Rob, M.A. "Family Research Council." Family Research Council. Family Research Council, n.d. Web. 13 Mar. 2017. http://frc.org/arguments.Gallup, Inc. "Abortion." Gallup.com. N.p., 26 May 2016. Web. 13 Mar. 2017. http://www.gallup.com/poll/1576/abortion.aspxSchool, Cornell Law. "8 U.S. Code § 1401 - Nationals and Citizens of United States at Birth."LII / Legal Information Institute. Cornell Law School, n.d. Web. 13 Mar. 2017. https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/8/1401Authors, Various Bible. "BibleGateway." BibleGateway.com: Search for a Bible Passage in 63 Languages and 194 Versions. Bible Gateway, n.d. Web. 16 Mar. 2017. https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/.Prager, Dennis. "The Most Important Question About Abortion." YouTube. YouTube, 17 Aug. 2015. Web. 16 Mar. 2017. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AMwkQVpy98A.Mayo Clinic Staff. "Fetal Development: The 1st Trimester." Mayo Clinic. The Mayo Clinic, 10 July 2014. Web. 21 Mar. 2017. http://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/pregnancy-week-by-week/in-depth/prenatal-care/art-20045302.Fr. Pavone, Frank. "Abortion -This Is a Suction Abortion." YouTube. YouTube, 29 Mar. 2008. Web. 28 Mar. 2017. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QBOAPleF1t0."Roe v. Wade 410 U.S. 113 (1973)." Justia Law. Justia Law, n.d. Web. 28 Mar. 2017. https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/410/113/case.html."Doe v. Bolton 410 U.S. 179 (1973)." Justia Law. Justia, n.d. Web. 29 Mar. 2017. https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/410/179/case.html.Baltzell, George W. "Constitution of the United States - We the People." Constitution for the United States - We the People. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Mar. 2017. http://constitutionus.com/.By The People: Election of Barack Obama. Dir. Amy Rice and Alicia Sams. Prod. Edward Norton. HBO, 2009. Netflix. Matthew-Roth, Micheline. "NPR." Stem Cell Research: An NPR Special Report. NPR. N.d. Radio. Transcript.Alcorn, Randy. "Why Life Begins at Conception." Why Life Begins at Conception | NAAPC. NAAPC, n.d. Web. 06 Apr. 2017. http://naapc.org/why-life-begins-at-conception/.Johnson, Abby. "Home." Abby Johnson. Abby Johnson, n.d. Web. 06 Apr. 2017. http://www.abbyjohnson.org/."Home." Prolife OBGYNS - AAPLOG - American Association of Pro-life Obstetricians & Gynecologists. AAPLOG, n.d. Web. 06 Apr. 2017. http://aaplog.org/."Kennedy v. Louisiana 554 U.S. 407 (2008)." Justia Law. Justia, 25 June 2008. Web. 06 Apr. 2017. https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/554/407/opinion.html.Richardson, Bradford. "Hillary Clinton’s ‘unborn Person’ Comments Anger Both Pro-choice, Pro-life Sides." The Washington Times. The Washington Times, 03 Apr. 2016. Web. 06 Apr. 2017. http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2016/apr/3/hillary-clinton-unborn-person-has-no-constitutiona/.Live Action, "Debunking Planned Parenthood's "3%" Abortion Myth " YouTube. YouTube, 14 Sep. 2016. Web. 26 Aug. 2017.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qtgqxvaV-8U.
As others have said, I started reading but didn't finish because that is a massive wall of text. I did try and skim most of it. In the end it doesn't matter what you say in the article or what you think, there are two major things wrong with anti-choice views (including yours) which can be summed up by saying "one size doesn't fit all": You are trying to impose your (conservative) Christian views on everyone. This country has no national religion, therefore you shouldn't bring up religion when discussing laws. It weakens your argument. You want to create a law that doesn't take into account people's (or society's) best interests. I have a friend who had complications with her pregnancy. Because of this she was at risk and she found out her baby was not going to live. Because of her state's strict abortion laws she was forced to put her life at risk and carry on with the pregnancy.  Not allowing abortion in cases of rape and incest is also insane. Hardcore anti-choice people often do not want to allow provisions for this which is just asinine. I also want to be clear. You are not "pro-life" you are anti-choice. A lot of the time an abortion is the correct thing to do for the parents, for the siblings, for the family.   The US doing things like cutting off abortion aid for foreign countries is one of the cruelest things I can think of and leads to situations such as the one in this image. http://bit.ly/2xp77YW
Makes me think of this image [NSFW for most values of NSFW]: http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-YV42Ivqsd3E/UMPxs1-s4oI/AAAAAAAABjA/dhfRZTI7w_g/s1600/geriGraphic.jpg
This articlehas some nasty images of dead fetus if you want to compare. NSFW. Both are very brutal tragedies I would say.

No you aren't. Why did you come here asking for others options when you are just trying to jam your beliefs down our throats? It is not black and white, stop acting like it is. You are anti-choice. The laws you want to enact cause children to starve, mothers to die, mothers to kill themselves, mothers to be stuck in abusive relationships, families to breakup, drug addiction, alcoholism, and many other terrible things.

I think we can use the Catholic church's massive infrastructure for good, they commit literally thousands of child rapes and cover them up to protect the rapists and perform exactly zero miracles. They can correct so much of that.
I 100% agree, and they really have done much more to do that than PP has ever talked about.
What do you think PP's infrastructure could be used for?
More adoption and actual care for women.
Planned Parenthood is already doing a lot in terms of care for women. I understand where you are coming from in your belief, however I don't agree with you at all. I'm not going to go into full depth on my stance on it because you'll believe what you want to, but FORCING someone to carry a child when they don't want to is terrible.
To that first point, Planned Parenthood performs .97% of the nation's PAP tests, 1.8% of breast exams, and 31% of the nation's abortions. That is what I mean when I can say they can do a lot more for women. And absolutely, I understand, I simply believe that aborting the child is equally terrible, I appreciate non-incendiary responses like this my friend :).
That has more to do with the fact that you can get a pap or a breast exam just about anywhere, whereas there are very few abortion providers in the US and most of them are PP. But abortion comprises only 3% of services provided by PP.
This is actually incorrect and has been debunked, it is actually closer to 13% or 1 in 8.

Factually incorrect. Where did you even get that from?
Planned Parenthood quarterly report lol
Can I ask how you feel about sex Ed? Have you seen the statistics about teaching safe sex and how it leads to a reduction in teen pregnancy vs teaching abstinence only?

We got abstinence only sex education at my school. We had multiple girls getting pregnant, and I dont know many people know from school that didnt have a kid during school or doesn't have one now 3 years out of school.
Yet another study just came about stating clearly that abstinence simply does not work and we won't make it work in current society and we shouldn't even have to. It's embarrassing to your (u/Reagan0) person if you honestly think it does and it shows astounding naivety to human nature. Here's a recent news article. 
Fair warning: I have strong opinions as an abortionist and as a proofreader. "More obvious than they may seem" is a bit of an odd turn of phrase.  Surely things that are obvious also seem obvious. A zygote is a single cell, it is not composed of cells at all.  It is composed of cell. This is true at the zygote stage, although later in pregnancy there will be maternal cells genetically identical to the fetus. Well, unless there is a twin.  Or unless I've cloned the mother.  I don't think those would change the humanity of this organism, and I suspect you agree -- so why is it part of your argument? This is a bit of proof by intimidation, plus some ad hominem vs strawman.  Your statement that it is a different organism is an analytic statement, not a synthetic statement -- it's a matter of the definition of an organism.  As such, it doesn't have moral weight, unless you attach some meaning to the reasons scientists defined an organism as starting at fertilization. "Those who say" it is no different from her appendix are clearly using the phrase "no different" loosely, i.e., "no different with respect to moral weight."  So when you say they lack scientific backing, you show that you lack the ability to take the perspective of others.  Clearly "those who say" understand that the zygote is not a part of the gastrointestinal tract. Again, do you not think that zygotes with aneuploidy are people?  Or that if they have a twin they are not people?  If it is not necessary to your argument, why is it in here? Bit of a garden path sentence between "researchers" and "pregnancies."  I initially read it "researchers have found [I assumed an implicit "that" here] every single trait that chromosomes design for [I expected a verb here] a human".  To be honest, I'm still not sure how it's meant to be read. Gender can't be determined from a zygote.  But genetic sex can.  It can be determined from a single cell removed from the zygote at the 8-cell stage, why bring up 12 weeks?  Also, it's a little circular.  If all the genetic material is present at fertilization, why make it sound like a big discovery that, for every trait that genes code for, the genes that code for it are present "at the earliest stages" of pregnancies.  Confusing. Wait, why is the fact that sex can be determined from a zygote evidence for choosing life?  Why is the fact that it would have astounded scientists evidence? Oh, right.  Because you're writing this for the pro-life perspective. Stuff like this makes it feel like a masturbatory exercise. No major objections.  Yeah, a fetus is a living human organism.  I don't find this to have moral significance. Maybe replace "stoppage" with "cessation." False, she was the clinic director of a PP clinic, not director of PP. Citation needed. Wait, so are you calling us pro-choicers or pro-abort?  Pick one. Also "this has been disproven as above," you didn't disprove it above. It wasn't disproven until those abortion doctors experienced their first ultrasound abortion?  Sounds like you forgot to finish the sentence.
It's weird that you call her Director Johnson.  I've never heard a clinic director go by that as a title.  In the context of you previously inflating her importance it's doubly weird. You're implying without stating it that withdrawals from noxious stimuli are indicative of awareness of noxious stimuli.  This is untrue. https://www.rcog.org.uk/globalassets/documents/guidelines/rcogfetalawarenesswpr0610.pdf Random mid-paragraph pivot, appeal to authority, lacking a citation... oh, right, this is for a pro-life audience. You ask yourself questions and give yourself the wrong answer.  Why are we present for your mental masturbation, if you're only going to shoot blanks? http://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/article-abstract/401754 Did he even say that?  Why do I care?  One person's opinion does not move me.  How about showing me some evidence on how many deaths there were per year?  Oh, right, you think there is no such evidence. Gets, not get's.  And "that" and "it" are undefined antecedents in this case; I assume they are referring to the quality of the writing so far. Okay, can't take anymore.  Going back to my life. Consider rewriting it so that it can be read from a neutral or pro-life perspective.  Empathy may be required.
This is incredibly impressive and thorough. I am amazed you took the time to help OP to this degree, and I sincerely appreciate the time it took to compose such a review.
I got, like, a third of the way through it.
Bless you and the work you do. Please know you have continued support from all over the US, this girl included!
As an emergency medicine resident who plans to get trained in abortion care, I want to thank you for all you do! You make this world a better place to live.
Hey, I love cross-training, but I've never seen an em resident doing TABs. Is that a thing now? Are you planning on practicing super-rurally? When it's an emergency, probably we should be doing them. Higher risk of perf with septic abs. That said, paragard is an emergency contraceptive and I wish more eds could put them in.
Missed that there are more indicators of death that some doctors use and others don't, like breathing, which fetuses can't do until a certain age.
I wouldn't say that I missed that.  I'm not sure your argument is going to bear fruit.  However, I'm not too committed to it, because like I said, fetuses are alive.
I'm just trying to point out that there are different standards of "living", some that fetuses meet and some that they don't.
Well, you phrased it as something that I missed, which was odd.  And... with respect, I think it's a bad point. I think it's a bad point for a couple of reasons.  (Remember, we're on the same side here, I think.) First, I'm not sure what you mean by "indicators of death" or "standards of "living".  There is the biological definition of living, which a fetus unequivocally meets.  Then there are criteria for death that doctors use, for which breathing/apnea can be a component (it's part of the diagnosis of brain death, for example), but never by itself. Second, fetuses do breathe, and OP's argument already uses fetal functions that aren't present at fertilization, so I'm not sure it changes anything. Third... why get into that?  What's your goal?  How will this argument advance your goal?
So this was a very long post and I didn't read it all, but some points to consider: You discussed that fetuses are unique and complicated beings, but so are most of the animals that roam the earth now. Would you support a ban on all meat and animal products? Or shutting down any business that causes habitat destruction (pretty much all businesses)? Would you never euthanize an animal when it's ill (more for fetuses that would have health problems or a poor quality of life due to their parents living situation)? Every human being born in a developed country also causes a massive toll on the environment, which causes unique, intelligent, and developed lifeforms to suffer and die. I also have a difficult time understanding the argument for fetuses potentially feeling pain. Even if they are at a point where they would feel pain, birth is also painful. They would also feel pain throughout their life if their life wasn't terminated, particularly for fetuses aborted because of potential health/genetic issues or lack of resources to care for the child. In comparison, abortion is very quick and potentially causes less suffering than living. Again, we have much more developed animals, such as pigs (who are as self aware and intelligent as a 3 year old human child) who we put through immense pain and suffering throughout months, just for our own pleasure. Edit: autocorrect mistake
I would also add the countless possibilities of health risks a fetus can pose to the mother's life. Why should the life of the fetus be preserved and valued over a grown woman's when there are risks or issues that would be detrimental to that woman's life?
Absolutely. I believe the post mentioned something about the dangers of abortion to the mother as well, but we know that abortions are currently safer than childbirth. I know several women who had lasting health problems from giving birth who aren't even considered high risks.
Exactly! It doesn't have to be life threatening to the mom to make sense. So many extremely debilitating things can happen to someone from carrying a pregnancy to term or from the process of childbirth and we cannot even begin to understand all the many health situations where this is relevant. The longterm quality of life of both the child and the mother must be considered. Thanks for taking the time to post!
So, I didn't read the whole thing but I see that you're quoting the bible quite a bit. The problem with that is that the bible to me is a completely meaningless piece of fiction and a terrible source for an argument of any kind. This is like me citing Harry Potter as evidence for the importance of protection from death eaters. Like, cool, within the story it makes sense, but it cannot possibly be the basis for any legislation. You're trying to make your essay look scientific by adding a list of works cited, but by using the bible as a serious source, you've disqualified yourself as a scientist. The only field where the bible is a reasonable source to quote is literature.

Not everyone is Christian, and in Leviticus, it gives you instructions on how to get an abortion from a priest. That seems pretty clear to me.
So then if you are invalidating the Christian Religion, why use Leviticus to support your beliefs.
I'm not invalidating, but the argument doesn't work for people who aren't, which is the majority (only about 31% are and the number is dropping). Leviticus is a counterpoint to the sheerly Christian argument. I'm arguing that not only is it a poor argument for excluding most of the world, it is also patently wrong.
hmmmm, last time I checked Christians constitute 71% of the Population.
Still wrong according to the latest (2012) study I could find.
My argument is meant for America mainly, my mistake I thought you were talking America.
My mistake that America isn't the center of the universe. Argument still stands. Furthermore, less than 20% of Americans regularly attend church anyway.
This is as far as I needed to read. Why should I be forced to live by your beliefs if I don't share them, when your life is not affected when my beliefs are law?
While I share your views on abortion, I disagree with the comment that you have made. /u/Reagan0 answers your question (essentially, "why should abortion be illegal?") at length.  I wouldn't say that they answer it well, and I wish it were shorter, but they answered it at length. Any well-written piece starts with a thesis statement.  I'm not calling this piece well-written, but you've picked the one thing that's okay about it to get angry at.  That's unproductive.  So is reading the rest of the piece.
That's what the entire abortion debate boils down to for me. It's not about science or legality. It's about using a personal belief to create laws that restrict the freedom of others.

This is entirely about beliefs. Specifically, when do you believe life begins?  There isn't a consensus from the scientific community on this subject (scientists, please correct me if I'm wrong). Which means we're left to figure out the legality of abortion based on our beliefs. So I ask again, why should I be forced to live by your beliefs if I don't share them, when your life is not affected when my beliefs are law? Or how does my abortion affect your life?
Scientist.  You're not wrong in spirit. In letter, though... We have a general consensus on when life began; it was around 4 billion years ago.  Some time after that it started forming into species which formed discrete organisms.  For convenience, we defined organisms as beginning at conception.
Thank you for the correction. :)
Rebuttal: Nah, fam.

But really though, I'll probably come back and give an actual response. I'm doing something right now.
Ok cool.
I think you don't realize what the point of laws are in America. Laws are not ment to uphold morality they are ment to keep the peace in a large and diverse ammount of people.
Absolutely! I 100% agree. But there are some immoral things that are outlawed because they shouldn't go unpunished in a developed nation, murder is one of them.
How do we choose which group of peoples morals to live by? Not everyone sees abortion this way. Potential life is not the same as established life. Ex. If a fertility clinic was on fire and you had to choose between saving 1 toddler and 500 frozen embryos which would you choose?
Prolifer here. I think a person could also make the decision based on who they think would suffer less in dying. It's a complex decision. Here's another one: A man is going to push either your mother or a 8 year-old-stranger kid off a cliff. Who do you choose to save? If you choose your mother, does it mean the 8 year-old boy is not a human being? If you choose the 8 year-old boy, does it mean your mother is not a human being?
Are you aware that in some places women can be punished for miscarriage because they thought she had an abortion? Other countries want a 11 year old who was rape give birth to the child even though that can endanger her life? Anti-abortion laws tend to show that women/girls are not valued and are quite disposable.
My problem with your arguments are that none of them address the bodily  autonomy of the pregnant person. So what if a fetus is or is not a person? We don't mandate that one individual risk there life to preserve the life of another. If we did we would mandate that everyone be on a kidney donor registry so that anyone who needed one could get a spare from  someone with two. After all you really only need one to live right?
No because the baby is not a part of her body, it is a completely different body.
Would you force a mother to give up a kidney to save the life of her sick child? That's what the user above alluded to. That even if the fetus is another organism it doesn't change the fact that in any other situation the bodily autonomy of one person is not disregarded to save another.
Let's go paragraph by paragraph: Largely correct, but irrelevant. A zygote is human. So what? No human in the world has the right to occupy the body of another without explicit and ongoing consent. Pain perception only applies in third trimester abortions (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16118385) which are illegal in most of the world except in very serious medical situations. Some good arguments here for improving abortion care and prenatal care, but the fact is that abortion is vastly safer than pregnancy and childbirth. Forcing someone to carry a pregnancy to term means gambling with their life. I'm not American so I'll skip the whole Roe v Wade thing. Christianity is fundamentally an immoral religion. The story at the core of it is this: a mass-murdering god decides he wants a kid, so he impregnates a young girl without her consent. When the kid grows up, god decides he should die, so lets him be crucified. God, assuming he exists, has no right to speak on morality when he's so clearly an evil entity. If we gave fetuses full human rights, termination of pregnancy would be legal until the due date. Currently, fetuses >24 weeks have more rights than any other human on the planet, as in many jurisdiction they have the legal right to occupy an unwilling host's body.
Pretty much. The logical ramification if the point was really to protect life and not to punish women for having non reproductive sex, would be that the government should be able to force people to donate blood, organs or whatever in order to save others.
What are your feelings towards in-vitro fertilization therapy for couples who aren't able to conceive?
I would never do it with my wife, and she would never do it, but those who do are fine.
Why are they fine? Why are they not murderers? That process requires the destruction of viable embryos. If life starts at conception, why the exception?
Perhaps I am not completely versed on it, or had some misconceptions on it, could you explain it to me, I will admit I have not done the previous research to make a full opinion.
The long and short of it is that the process requires a number of viable embryos end up being destroyed. IVF allows couples who otherwise can't conceive to have biological children, are you calling those parents murderers because what they're doing is murder given your own definition. Fertility clinics destroy embryos all the time. Why aren’t conservatives after them? Pretty fucked up.
You are 100% correct.
So to you those parents are murderers? This also implies that women who go through a miscarriage should be charged with manslaughter and should be investigated in order to determine their culpability.
Well if she killed the child on purpose it is murder.
That was not my question. Please look up the difference between murder and manslaughter. You also didn't answer about the parents doing Ivf: are they murderers?
I think the general prolife consensus is that if the human embryos are discarded or destroyed then yes, that would be murder.


If they are conceived children, then the embryos. As it is saving more lives. But I think these kinds of loaded questions are toxic to dialogue.

Your title finishes with: Your wall of text finishes with: You want to change some pro-choice opinions, correct? You are not asking for opinions from subscribers or even asking any questions.
I'm going to come at this from the point of view of a Pro-choice Christian who is slightly conservative in their thinking. I honestly didn't read the whole thing because it's a giant wall of text, but the gist of it is that abortion is wrong because from your (and christianity's) standpoint, life begins at conception and therefore any attempts made at ending that life are wrong. While I share those same views, I am pro-choice because I believe in God-given free will, something that I believe is given to all of us. What others choose to do with their free will is their problem and their problem alone, whether I like what they do or not (Galatians 6:5). I also believe that with the world as diverse as it is right now, it's impossible for me - a christian - to look at others and judge them based on my own set of beliefs not shared by everyone i.e. I can't slander women for getting abortions because (a) it's honestly none of my business and (b) while I wish it didn't have to happen, i'm not naïve enough to think that the world is rainbows and sunshine for everyone else. Therefore, I don't know all of the facts before going in and making a judgement of what she chooses to do, which is wrong whether you're a religious person or not. Due to my beliefs, I'm not going to go and protest outside abortion centres or intimidate those who choose to get an abortion, I am not going to petition politicians (it should be said that I'm apolitical and not even american) to draft bills and pass legislation that practically eradicates the already few choices that women have in terms of medical autonomy because that would essentially be getting in the way and working to obstruct these women exercising their god-given free will - which is something i refuse to do.
If you want to talk about faith, Free Will doesn't cover breaking the 6th Commandment.
Yes, but the thing about that is, not everyone listens to what the Bible has to say because they aren't christian. So yes, the Bible says that ending someone else's life is wrong, but not everyone believes in what the Bible has to say and therefore it would be useless to try and get them to change their thinking to align with something that they don't like/believe in. Free will was given to us to be used for either good or bad, and judging people on what they choose to do with it (especially strangers/those who have no connection to you whatsoever) is something reserved for God himself - whether they believe in him or not, because we as imperfect humans have no right to judge others for their sins when we ourselves are imperfect and sin too.
TL;DR But obviously no one agrees with you, including myself
Stop doing cocaine before you reddit. You're writing too much and no one cares what you think.
Ill keep that in mind.
You completely ignore the woman in you writing . She has thoughts and feelings regarding her pregnancy , it's egregious to dismiss her .
I understand that, but feelings do not override life. I have feelings but I can't go and murder someone.
Actually, yes you can, I'm pro-life but not necessarily anti-death, Im pro-life on fetuses, but I'm an animal-man in war.  I've buried or killed close to the beasts number in war bodies and I buried about 550 fetuses in 1983 in Chicago.  So one had washes the bloody one.  No conflict in my heart, the kids are innocent, the teens with mortar tubes or IEDs get pounded on by 3.75" rockets.  All the bodies I find or make are sinless in my eyes, even if I just killed them, that is true forgiveness.  I make my crew chief bag up the aftermath and we deliver the person with all we know about them (Iranian or Kurdish etc) to the volunteer women who sort the dead.
How many children are you adopting and fostering? Surely as someone who is pro-life you would take action.
2
Only 2? Any with disabilities? And how long will you foster? What kind of volunteering for disadvantaged children?
Yes, no, plan to adopt, I'm a teacher.
Are you a teacher in a poor, inner city area? And plan on adopting? So you have not. Hopefully you adopt a child, not a healthy newborn. And no fostering. Funny. The people who I know who adopt (not healthy babies either), foster special needs kids, and work with disadvantaged children are not anti-abortion. Hm.
I am fostering, with intent to adopt.
Why do I not believe you?
I don't know.
Do you expect either of your children to eventually be able to get pregnant?
No. Just...no. I didn't read it, as the wall of text hurt my eyes.
My eyes hurt too.  Couldn't start reading it because Thanksgiving is coming up and we'll have to get a turkey soon.
Let me ask you a hypothetical question. Imagine you are in a fertility clinic, when a fire breaks out. You suddenly hear a young child crying and screaming for help. As you go into the room where the child is located, you notice the thousands of human zygotes that are being kept there for couples to have children from. You only have time to save the child or the zygotes, before you die of smoke inhalation. You can either A) save the child, and you and the child survive B) save the zygotes, and leave the child to die.... There is no choice C).
Ah the old clinic straw man. This has nothing to do with abortion and you know it.
Is it really? If you claim life begins at conception, then it isn't. Just answer the question. Since it "doesn't really have to do with abortion" it should not bother you to make a choice.
Personally, I would save both and sacrifice myself. Now the reason why it has absolutely nothing to do with abortion is because abortion is a decision between death and life, not death and death as this overplayed question is.
No it isn't. This primarily disproves your idea that life begins at conception. Oh, and by the way there is no choice  where you save both. You save one or the other pick. If you choose the child, then you are saying that you are lying to yourself about believing life begins at conception. You and I both KNOW that a living breathing child that is screaming for help is worth way more than embryos that are not even implanted yet.
It actually doesn't. This analogy is a flawed straw man because the choice here is kill one or the other. In abortion it is save a life or end it. Also please, Philosophy can't debunk scientific fact. Now worth is an interesting question, we start to talk about what would be the ramifications of if a mother lost her born child or her frozen embryos. We can get into the weeds all we want and I do enjoy a good philosophy debate but that doesn't change the fact that life begins at conception. You are postulating opinions can override biology.
Who would be the audience with the patience to read this article? I would predict that whatever you say would be 95% true, if one counted true propositions. I would predict that if I took paragraphs, almost all would be logically consistent. I predict it boils down of about 5 major propositions and only one contains the controversial issue.
Interesting.
Can you confirm you are pro life by stating you are against all forms of war and the death penalty?

Clinics should have private drive-up entrances.

Good, abortion bans are sick. I will never forgot a girl at 16 who died because they did not want to give her cancer treatment because she was pregnant. It really shows how abortion bans are anti-women/girls not about the "baby".

The Blaze is on the extremes of a biased news source.
This is from The Blaze, a conservative network run by Glenn Beck. They're trying to foster division between us. Don't let them.

I think you should try posting this again.
I recently read something claiming a few far right Congressmen (yep once again men) want to make it illegal to discard any embryos after IVF because they have "rights." So not only are they claiming a fetus has rights when it can't survive outside the womb but now they claim a bunch of cells have rights outside of a woman's body?? What the flying fuck. How do these people get elected? And why is it any of their damn business? I suppose it's more responsible to implant all the embryos and see what happens? Wrong. That's irresponsible. I can't even with this.
A fetus can implant itself in places other than the womb and survive. (Reference) Men, like women, are equipped with abdomens suitable for such implantation and gestation. Therefore, I propose that every man voting for this measure be required to have one or more embryos implanted in their body, to gestate and be delivered by Cesarean section at 9 months.
Because they think if one embryo dies then the world is over as we know it. I'd like to ask them this: If a building that stored these embryos was on fire would you risk fire fighters going in to save them? Besides they were very quiet when the octomom had all of hers implanted.
The whole Octomom thing was so unethical. That should never be allowed. And she couldn't afford it.
This sounds consistent with pro-life rhetoric. I've always pointed out how no one seems to protest IVF clinics like they do PP.
I guess the point of IVF is to create life, not end it?
Almost half of embryos used in IVF are thrown away.
The net result is one more life than before. I guess you can argue if that's worth the 'loss' of other embryos, but I think most recognise the intent and believe abortion clinics are much worse. In my opinion anyway.
All things considered, if someone wants a child and fertility is an issue, I'd rather them consider adoption rather than creating and throwing away embryos via IVF (needlessly, IMO). But that's if we lived in an ideal world where people were okay with not having their own biological children and such. I certainly don't understand the desire for my own biological children, so my opinion doesn't matter much to those who do. :P
As opposed to them... not being fertilized whenever they have sex? I don't get how it's a waste. And adopting newborns isn't actually that easy.
An embryo is already fertilized. I agree it isn't easy and it should be easier for people to adopt. The foster system is abhorrent.
Y'know, I kind of like this kind of stuff.  Not because I'm in favor of the policies, but because I like that it shows the world the consequences of embryonic personhood.
The Catholic Church has opposed IVF for years. It's not really anything novel. Republicans are catching on I guess.
It does make sense though, if an embryo is an ' unborn baby' to a prolife person it's location should not matter. Didn't Bush support snowflake babies, where women are given frozen embryos to gestate https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snowflake_children
Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snowflake_children HelperBot v1.1 /r/HelperBot_ I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 103820
Actually this is consistent with the prolife stance. The whole prolife rhetoric rest on the assumption that all living human beings deserve the same basic regardless of where they are located.

So as you know, Texas is pretty pro-life and anti-abortion. It's a very conservative state overall. I ended up finding a pro-choice advocacy center in Austin hiring canvassers and I'd love to do it but I have concerns.I'm more than used to being yelled at and abused by people. You learn to live with it when working in the restaurant industry. That isn't my concern. My concern is physical threats to me. I'm a big guy (6'4" 290lbs) so I'm not super worried, but this is an open carry state with castle doctrine laws. While I'm well aware anyone who harms me wouldn't be in the legal right, I'd rather not be shot or assaulted. So my question is, how save is canvassing? I'm aware the relative safety can change depending on where you are, but I'm talking overall. It's good pay and it's for a good cause but I'm too much of a coward to die for even this noble of a cause. Should I at least try? Or should I continue to advocate where I'm a bit safer, that being behind my computer?Tl;dr: I want to canvass in Austin but I'm concerned for my safety. Should I go forward with the job?
I think safety shouldn't be an issue as much as the job sucking really really bad. It's safe, I did it in DC and never felt unsafe. But it's a shit paying job with next to no reward and lots frustration and disappointment. I also lived in Austin for years and I don't see you having any safety issues. Edit- I canvassed for Planned Parenthood as a 5 9 120 lb female. People would say things like "I'm not interested" or "I disagree with what your organization does" but nobody threatened me.
You'll be fine here. I've never seen things get too out of hand in all my pro-choice life here.  Good luck 😁
Also, for context, the worst reaction I ever got was a guy preaching Jesus to me. I heard stories about a guy years ago getting a drink thrown at him, but that sort of thing is super rare. Most people just ignore you and walk on by. If you get the job I really hope it works for you, its just a really shitty job with really bad pay-off and little to no reward. It's frustrating and tedious and not worth what they pay you (minimum wage, in my case).

Please take your opinion somewhere else. He didn't ask you what you thought about abortion. Keep it to yourself. As someone who has actually had an abortion, that movie is ridiculous and full of inaccuracies. That is not AT ALL how abortions work.
Maybe not these days but it still shows the graphic and sad truth of the procedure. If you can't handle my views and opinion on the subject then don't comment. This entire post is about the problem of abortion and I really wanted to see how pro choice supporters see it too. Commenting on my post means you're up for debate. I state it clearly in my post before anything.
You're on the wrong post. He literally isn't asking for a debate on the topic of abortion or for movie recommendations. He was asking about what its like to canvass in the state of Texas. And again, please don't speak over people who have ACTUALLY HAD THE PROCEDURE. You literally have no idea what its really like to have an abortion. And you'e speaking over the people here who do. Keep it to yourself. If you want a debate, take it elsewhere. This guy wasn't asking for it.
Oh wow you're right wrong post LITERALLY. Sorry. Ive been getting many notifications today. :/ But I wasn't going against him I was just giving him advice. And I even said if he still goes with the job to not be scared of anybody because nobody should stop you from your dreams.

I've heard many people I talk to about it speak of how pro-life is a ridiculous concept but I'd love to hear some reasons from a more various number of some supporters. (P.S. Up for debate if requested :) )Edit: I love the feedback because it finally lets me hear from others that aren't people I see everyday. :)

I disagree. Born children are exposed to smoke and no one is jailed for it. Moreover there are reasonable amounts of alcohol and certain drugs that will not harm the fetus. Not to mentioned logistics and risk/benefit being weighed. Not if that situation is necessary in order for them to survive. For example, I can give my child chemo to treat cancer or perform a risky surgery to save their life. The benefits outweigh the risks. How so?
The idea that human beings should be tortured to preserve the life of something with the same level of consciousness as a bacterium is ridiculous. Or at least it would be if it wasn't so evil.
Exactly.
I'm glad you agree. Restrictions on abortion are utterly immoral.
Explain that to me Please.
Forced childbirth is torture. Torture is wrong.
It is also slavery, but he doesn't seem to think so.  Apparently women and their own opinions on their own bodies don't matter to him.
Actually they do very much but when the baby's body is ripped apart and forcibly removed from their safe haven that is legal murder and has nothing to do with women's rights.
It has everything to do with women's rights.  It has to do with women having ownership of their own body.  Women are nothing if they cannot even control their own body.  A uterus belongs to no one other than the woman that it resides in, a fetus does not own it and it does not own women.  You're defending slavery for women.  If women mattered to you you wouldn't try to take their rights away and turn them into slaves.
The BABY and the uterus are completely different because the child only resides in the women's body to survive. The baby doesn't own it but it shouldn't be killed over a mistake and human nature.
The embryo or fetus is inside of the WOMAN's uterus, only she has the authority to keep it there or have it removed.  If she wants it removed she can have it removed because it is using her body to develop.  They aren't completely different things because it is using the woman's uterus against her will.

How is a person being tortured yes having a baby will hurt but the fact that u call a living fetus within the same level as a bacteria is the stupidest thing I ever Hurd it's a living baby I really wish your parents gave u and abortion.If u get into a car accident and die I would be genuinely happy saying that a human life is equivalent to a life of bacteria smh.
How very pro-life of you.
So save the single cell zygote but kill people who believe in abortion? You aren't pro-life. You're just stupid.
forcing a woman to continue to gestate her egg and give birth against her will isn't ridiculous, it's tyrannical. fuck tyranny
Totally agree.  It's tyrannical and also barbaric.
If the woman doesn't want to have the baby then she should have the man wear protection or don't have sex at all. Either way it's the woman and the mans fault because pregnancy is natural and only caused by sperm inserted into the egg... They both know the consequences that can come from it but they do it anyways...
Rape?

Spoken like someone whose body will never be ravaged and destroyed by a pregnancy.
A pregnancy doesn't destroy a woman's body. An abortion literally tears apart the child inside her.
Pregnancy and childbirth permanently changes a woman's body.  Women even die, get seriously injured, or experience severe complications from it.  A multitude of articles about women and the dangers pregnancy and childbirth have been shared on this sub.  Women should not be forced to endure death and injury because you view them as reproductive slaves.  We're still people and we still have the right to autonomy whether you agree with us having rights or not.  You can't force us to have our bodies used against our will and potentially die or be maimed in the process.  That is the individual woman's decision and her's alone.
Not a child
Then what would you say a human being that is under 1 year old is called?
A child? Baby? It's alive and out of the womb.
It can be alive and in the womb

Birth control isn't 100%. It's also none of your business what people do in the bedroom. But now you want to control when people have sex. Do you hear yourself?
[removed]
Exactly.  He is even against rape victims having the right to autonomy, because apparently pregnancy and childbirth is only some kind of minor inconvenience that women should be forced to endure whether they consented to sex or not.  Fuck that!  Women should have the right to their body no matter what, no matter if they consented to sex or not, they didn't consent to pregnancy.  People like him are despicable.
If someone didn't consent to sex, they shouldn't be forced to consent to the consequences. Plain and simple.
I agree, but consent to sex isn't consent to pregnancy either.  And consenting to have protected sex definitely isn't consenting to pregnancy and when birth control fails there shouldn't have to be consequences.  There is nothing wrong with people choosing to have sex, it isn't an act that deserves consequences. I don't understand why anyone would want women to have to "live with the consequences" regardless of if they had consensual sex or not, because then that just says that pregnancy and babies are nothing more consequences and burdens that should be forced onto women who have the gall to sex for pleasure.   It also doesn't make sense to me because the people who usually say those things are the ones who fetishize embryos and fetuses, I don't see how they can think that pregnancy is some kind wonderful gift, while at the same time wanting to punish women with forced pregnancy and childbirth just for doing a normal activity like having sex solely for pleasure.
I agree so much!!! I had an abortion in 2014 and it was the best choice for me and my future. If it wasn't an option for me back then, I wouldn't be living in an amazing city with my SO, and we wouldn't have the stable, happy life we have today. I would be living below the poverty line, unable to peruse an education, and miserable. I am grateful I had compassionate care and was treated with respect by the doctors and staff. Babies should't be forced upon women who dare to have sex. They should be brought into the world thoughtfully, lovingly, and in a planned manner. I guarantee you if I had continued with that pregnancy, I would resent that baby for taking away my future. What kind of mother would that make me? Not one that I would ever like to be.

Women tend to get angry when you try to take away their rights to autonomy and personhood and force them to give birth and have their bodies used against their will.  If you don't want us to get angry don't try to control us and take away our rights.
I'm not trying to control anyone I'm just saying there are other ways to take care of the situation.
No one is forcing a woman to have an abortion.  Women aren't stupid, they know they have options, some just make decisions that you don't like.  Women making decisions you don't like isn't their problem, it's yours.  Women are living their lives how they want to, not how you want them to.
But why not think of the growing child inside of them and their future?
It's their body they can do what they want to.  They know that continuing a pregnancy is an option, they just decided not to.  That is thinking about the pregnancy.
True but the baby is a entirely different body with different thoughts. It's not literally a part of her like a conjoined twin the umbilical cord is what feeds the baby. The baby at least should have a chance at life.

How many unwanted babies have you been fostering?
But why not think of The growing child inside of Them and their future?                     - ChalkMemes25 I'm a bot made by /u/Eight1911. I detect haiku.
[removed]
I'm not demanding anything on anyone. I'm sorry if it comes off that way but that is not my intention and it's in no way tyrannical to suggest other options.
Women already know there are other options.  Women aren't stupid and helpless like you act like they are.  They aren't mindless, it isn't like they don't think over an abortion first.
Of course they do but I think killing a baby shouldn't be an option.
The thing is no one cares.  Ending a pregnancy or continuing it is up to the individual woman.  Not you.  What you think doesn't matter to the woman or us.
Then why do you argue with me on the subject of what I'm saying apparently doesn't matter?

[removed]
Well yeah of course they don't, it's their decision. I'm just saying there are other options but abortion shouldn't be one.
So you're trying to take rights away from women, their autonomy, and they personhood.  It is their decision and that decision includes abortion.  Stop lying, you want to control women.
If a woman was in an abortion clinic id try to convince her of what I believe is the right thing ; I wouldn't throw her out and push her back to where she came from...

[removed]
How is it tyrannical?

[removed]
I don't like when women choose to exterminate a life because of convenience. And it isn't in anyway responsible to kill a human being
[removed]
I love it when women are pregnant because the baby inside them has a future to change the world for the better. At least that's how I see it. :/
Maybe the pregnant person was going to change the world for the better, but couldn't because of the pregnancy or childbirth or childraising. Or the baby could be the next Hitler. Why is the nonsentient fetus more important than the sentient pregnant person?
[removed]
No one has to I'm not trying to impregnate anybody here. I'm just telling you how I see it differently. How is that tyranny?

Personally, I don't consider "pro-life" to be ridiculous.  I consider it anti-choice, for one reason.  Its sole agenda is to make abortion -- and even some forms of contraception -- illegal.  That would remove a woman's right of choice in reproductive matters.
Making it illegal for a man to beat their wife (Which is still legal in some countries) gets rid of a man's right to do what they want with their property. If you went to Pakistan and told men to stop beating their wives they would not be happy. Yet we still did that in developed countries. This is no different.
Because they refuse to adopt or foster, they tend to be sexists and racists, and some even think that the mother should not get an abortion to save her own life.
Because it's not "pro-life" at all it's just anti women's choice. If pro-lifers were actually pro-life they would lay off legislating against abortion clinics and contraception and sex Ed. Instead these supposed pro lifers would legislate for affordable housing for women and children, they would push for affordable income based childcare, they wouldn't try to strip welfare programs like wic and Medicaid. If this country was more focused on making it more affordable and easier to raise and have a family you would see women opting to keep their children. Pro-lifers are a focusing their energy on the wrong thing. Stop trying to take away the rights roe v wade gave women. Instead put their energy towards legislation that supports parents, children families of lower incomes and you'll see the number of abortion drop.
"ridiculous". No. While I'm totally pro-abortion,  pro-life views are not ridiculous -- just wrong, not ridiculous.
Well thank you for the honesty.
How could I not have been conscious? Does a baby have consciousness as soon as it leaves the uterus?
Before birth.  Also that would be a late-term abortion because it is past viability, in most countries those are only allowed for severe fetal abnormalities and the life or health of the woman.  Those are rare.  Most elective abortions are much earlier.
They asked my mother if they wanted to abort me because I was going to come out disabled. Late-term or not they still asked her.
And she chose not to, which was her choice.
And thank my lord Jesus Christ that she did lol
now you want to force your own mother to birth you? yep, tyrant oooo i want to punch it's nose in sooooo bad!
How could I have forced my mother when I couldn't even fully speak at the time?
[removed]
Oh wow I'm sorry to have made you angry it was not my intention.
You also couldn't care in the first place.
And? It's the mother's choice.
Well the woman who drinks and does drugs is obviously a child abuser no matter the stages of pregnancy because the abuse it is taking in from these substances can cause many problems for the child in the womb. Life begins at conception because the sperm cell fertilizes the eggs and let's it form into the fetus that we now debate over... The thought of it being "just a clump of cells" is equally absurd because as you can see in a sonogram that the heart virtually begins at just four weeks of conception. When watching a procedure of an abortion taking place in only 12 weeks (which is unfortunately legal) with a sonogram included you can see the baby move away from the tube, showing that it notices that it is in danger and their life is at risk. I also disagree that miscarriage is negligent manslaughter unless the drugs and alcohol are the reason for its death; as my mother is a woman who had a miscarriage since the fetus had died and exploded in her womb. Miscarriage is mostly because the woman's body is unable to conceive children which is also mostly unknown to the victim which is truly a sad event that takes place. Edit: I was just wanted to add I appreciate that you would take the time to comment and talk to me about the situation as it has been a mind boggling question in me for quite some time.
Why are you just focusing on drugs and alcohol? Countless things could cause a miscarriage. Is a woman allowed to exercise, even if she doesn't know she's pregnant?  If so, she would be risking a miscarriage. Risky sports? Drink coffee? How about for choosing to have a child at an older age? Miscarriage rates shoot up as a woman gets older. You are proposing a world where your own mother would have had to go through an inquisition to prove that she was completely blameless no matter how small the risk for her miscarriage. You almost certainly ate something today that tried to fight to stay alive before being killed for your momentary pleasure. If your logic here means anything to you, you should immediately become a vegan, and if you don't it means you're just an ideologue who will use the flimsiest of reasons to support what they were in all likelihood raised to believe.
I focused on the drugs and alcohol because it was what the person had brought up at the time, but I am well aware that miscarriages can happen for more than that.
Ok? That's not the point of contention whatsoever. You made two specific points that I focused on. One, that someone who is pregnant at any stage who drinks or does drugs is a child abuser. Two, that miscarriages shouldn't be considered criminal. These points are contradictory, because drinking or doing drugs while pregnant aren't the only two ways to harm a pregnancy. This means that there are two possible outcomes to your line of reasoning: You consider other activities that are risky to the fetus to be child abuse and therefore something that should be prosecuted. This leads to invasive investigations of miscarriages. or You only think that drinking and drug use while pregnant should be illegal, and anything else, including abortion via external trauma or other chemical consumption, is legally fine. Which is it?
I agree with the second option the most.
So to sum up what I'm understanding of your position, abortion should be legal but instead of it being a safe medical procedure, it should be risky, taking us back to the era of back alley coat hanger abortions? Not trying to put words in your mouth there, but with the ideas outlined I can't see other options.
I think abortion should be illegal entirely.
Then clarify your actual positions, because you said that you didn't want miscarriage investigations. If abortion is "entirely illegal" but it's legal to hit yourself in the belly with a hammer until you miscarry, news flash, abortion isn't actually illegal.
Hitting yourself with a hammer is very concerning to anybody I don't know why you would want to do that.
You are clearly totally unaware of the history of abortion. Women have knowingly risked their lives to end an unwanted pregnancy, women have died from unqualified amateurs butchering them in an attempt to end a pregnancy. This is the reality that we would return to if you had your way. You said you were interested in debating, but you're just throwing out unrelated statements. Either educate yourself, or demonstrate that you understand this subject and address the points presented.


You're arguments are spot on and I'm so glad there are people like you in the world
It's not really irrelevant since the person had brought it up in the first comment. Edit: Also not everything with a nervous system has rights but it's still a baby and soon to grow into an adult and I bet you that if you pulled it out and asked the baby if it's ok to tear it apart like they do in abortion procedures  it would completely disagree.

As a religious individual I'd never choose abortion over a mistake. And how can you say the baby is non-sentient when it's shown moving around in the womb. Humans don't move by just instinct they move because of the mind also...

It's shown during abortion that a baby's heart rate grows rapidly which means it is aware of what's going on, how is that not sentient?

"Sentience involves the conscious processing of stimulus" but when you say "The increase in heart rate proves that they have a functioning rudimentary nervous system that responds to the stimulus" then you say that the stimulus is in process and therefore they have consciousness.


Do you not understand what the word rudimentary means?  Or conscious processing?  OP mentioned two different processes.

"As a religious individual I'd never choose abortion over a mistake." So what.  Your decisions are just that...yours.  Each woman has the right to make her own sexual and reproductive decisions, including the right to choose abortion.  If it isn't your pregnancy, it isn't your choice.  Period.
Oh yes, if you pull out an 8 week old fetus that is the size of a kidney bean and still partially translucent they will totally tell you not to have an abortion.  This right here is why people rightfully call pro-birthers ridiculous.  Also most abortions don't happen anything like you describe in your ridiculous appeal to emotion.  Usually they are either performed with a pill that causes a miscarriage or through basically a D & C procedure where the woman has the contents of her uterus suctioned and cleaned out.
That's the procedure I speak of, when she has the baby suctioned out.
k? Gonna address anything else they said, or...?
It's none of your business what medical procedures a woman undertakes.


Good. It makes no sense. I think there has been in a change in the state I am in. Laws have changed. I always want to redirect those fools to the nearby place that is asking for people to adopt and be a foster parent. Here you go!
I don't get this argument. Surely we all agree here that big a parent is an incredibly large responsibility and burden. If they are out there protesting, they probably back up their beliefs in other ways too.

Well if you're the sort of person who stands around protesting abortion clinics, I would assume that you're likely to also believe that premarital sex is wrong and that if everyone stopped having premarital sex, there would be a lot less unwanted children. Aren't conservative Christians also more likely to be charitable?
They do but I want them to really see what they beliefs really mean. I went to school with people like this. They have no idea and some need to see it.
I'm not a fan of that argument, either- it's an accusation of hypocrisy, but there's nothing inherently hypocritical about opposing abortion rights and not lifting a finger to help pregnant folks.  Shitty, sure.  But hypocritical?  Not so much.  Being anti-abortion doesn't obligate a person to foster, adopt, or be charitable in any way. (And yes, there are indeed folks who both protest abortion and also do the things that pro-choicers tend to accuse them of not doing.  That doesn't suddenly make it okay for said "walk the walk" people, at least to me, to try to criminalize abortion).
When you get right down to it that argument is about conservative vs liberal economics and social values, not abortion. Framing it in an abortion discussion is just a distraction.
I'm not sure how the formatting worked it, but my reply was in response to the "I don't get this argument. Surely we all agree here that big a parent is an incredibly large responsibility and burden. If they are out there protesting, they probably back up their beliefs in other ways too." post, not your later reply to unUSEFUL_idiot.


Big shocker, they continue to do anything they can to treat women of all ages and circumstances like breeding stock.  Closing family planning clinics, teaching abstinence only, having an ever increasing teen pregnancy rate, limiting the number of abortion clinics, and forcing women to go to Mexico to obtain the abortion pill still isn't enough for the Texas Christian Sharia.  Apparently it won't be enough for them until they finally force women back in the homes under men's thumbs.
Texas shall reap what is sows.
It's Texas. What else do you expect from the yeehaw Jesus cowboy farmers?

That is so sick. I could not imagine giving birth and then being blamed for the death of my baby by being put in jail.
This is beyond sick, disgraceful and inhuman. This is so very wrong.
Abortion is inhumane( its inhumane, not inhuman) Hypocrit
Why is abortion inhumane? And how am I a hypocrite? And are you a woman? Edit: oops, sorry, I see you're a troll. Please disregard. P.S.... no one likes you.
Immoral panic.

I really dislike this article. I don't mind the headline, nor some of the content, as I agree, but the first section seems to be attacking this woman who's making a very valid point: That's neither wrong nor irrational to discuss. The article is pretty open about discrediting what she's saying, but I don't think that's fair. There's a huge difference between being anti-choice and wanting to discuss the real implications of new medical technology that could impact society as a whole. Ableism is a problem today, not some past issue. I do believe that if embryo editing becomes the norm (especially for wealthy people), people with genetic issues will be considered to be even lesser. Already richer people seem to detest helping anyone who's poor, so if certain disabilities only affect the poor, I really fear for their health, futures, and happiness... It's an important issue to address, especially before it's an active problem.
I know your position isn't "disabilities are awesome!" but as someone who suffers daily from one, I welcome this type of advance. There will be problems and as with all other advances it will initially benefit the rich, but that's already the world we live in. I'm paying a couple thousand dollars a month just to avoid an excruciating death, I don't want anyone else to have to experience this shit if they can avoid it.
That's not at all what I mean, though, and not even the point of what I'm saying. It's a good idea to have an open conversation about the possibility that life will become even more difficult for existing people with disabilities once it's viewed as a thing that only affects the poor or people with poor life choices. I'm not against these advances; I'm against shutting down any discussion that isn't inherently positive.
I probably should have specified the part of your reply I was responding to, so my apologies on that. I'm not saying you're against these things, but I think the argument about the economic side falls a bit flat when it's already the reality for a lot of people. Additionally, there's the method versus outcome aspect that's commonly used in anti-choice propaganda, basically saying that pro-choice people support sex selective abortions because they support access to abortion without jumping through specific legislated hoops. I totally agree that this needs to be discussed and implemented carefully, but it smacks of fear mongering when something with so much potential is slighted with Nazis and genetic cleansing, just like it does when someone tries to say that reproductive freedom is a slippery slope towards sex and race selective abortions.
On the other hand, you've got people with disabilities saying that, no, they don't want to die.
Please try again, and this time make a coherent point. Maybe reading and understanding the article would help?
Oh please. The only difference between s fertilized ovum and a human is time. 9 months is nothing to the average human lifespan in the West. Imagine if we killed everyone in a coma after 9 months. Your arms and legs are not individual organisms, they are part of a larger whole. A fertilized ovum, is a whole organism. Is a baby or dwarf less of a person because they are smaller? So what? The fragility of life doesn't make it ok to destroy more. The argument is that a fetus isn't a human because it's not sentient. Don't try to justify it with bullshit.
I'm not sure what your point is. Time isn't insignificant. It's very significant.
The problem with this argument Is that while the first two points are true, they do not follow up to the conclusion. An ovum and sperms both have human DNA, but they don't have half the amount that is usually required to make a human being (before anyone brings up genetic disorders there is a reason they are genetic disorders; they are  not natural. The people suffering from these disorders are human, however, and we can test this via DNA even if we never looked at them.) A sperm is alive. It is not a human organism. Sperms don't reproduce and make more sperm, and eggs do not reproduce and make more eggs. An egg and sperm, however, will produce a human being capable of producing other human beings. Seperates sperm and eggs do not have a "lifespan"; they are  mere parts of the new life cycle.
Sperm do reproduce and make more sperm!  They do so by finding a haploid egg; they then combine to form a diploid unicellular life phase called a "zygote" that transforms into a diploid multicellular life phase called a "blastocyst" and then a "morula."  In this phase they require a very specific environment provided by the endometrial lining of their diploid life phase.  If provided with this very specific environment, they will (half of the time) produce an adult diploid which produces sperm, and the other half of the time produce an adult diploid that provides eggs and endometrial lining.  This is how sperm reproduce. Voila, the sperm-centered view of the human life cycle. Is it sensible?  No, because it's not useful.  We as animals have a very limited, vestigial haploid life phase.  Compare us to mosses, where the haploid phase is the one that you see, and the diploid phase is the more limited one that depends on the haploid phase for nutrition.  Which one is the organism, and which is a "mere part of the new life cycle"? We are all parts of the new life cycle. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK9980/ <-- shared not because it'll change your mind about abortion, but because plant life cycles are awesome. Look, the point of the above argument isn't to change your mind about life beginning at conception.  I know I'm not going to do that and I'm not fussed about it right now.  The point is to encourage you to let go of this particular reason for it. "Organism" and "human" were words made for biological convenience.  Viewing the sperm and eggs as subservient to the larger organism, rather than the other way round, is because, well, our diploid phase predominates!  It does the energy consumption and is a lot more complex. I think the key part of why our diploid phase is more important than our haploid phase is that it does the thinking.  Since I think I have strong evidence that embryos and fetuses do not think, I am okay with terminating life in the early diploid phase (as well as throughout the haploid phase, because I don't think eggs or sperm think either). You also cite the idea that a combined sperm and egg are capable of creating a fully formed human, while a separate sperm and egg are not.  I would challenge that you actually need a sperm, an egg, and a receptive endometrial lining.  Then I would challenge that you actually need a sperm, an egg, a receptive endometrial lining, and a person who is going to carry the pregnancy to term... and before long we're at this /r/prolife post. To make sure we're on the same page here, my argument could be summarized as follows: Biology doesn't contain a lot of clear borders; it has a lot of fuzzy transitions.  We drew some borders for our convenience as researchers and doctors.  It doesn't always follow that those borders are also the morally-significant borders.
Just reading through and I found this confusing. Did you mean it the other way around? Shouldn't haploid take the place of diploid and vice versa? Oops, never mind. I get it now /u/TrustedAdult.
My last "it" was an undefined antecedent.  Mea culpa.
Nice use of Latin. I guess you noticed that Catholic in my name.
I just assumed you had a severe cat problem.
LOL. Awesome!
I apologize then, I should have made myself more clear. Sperms do "reproduce", however they are not seperate species and I don't consider their reproduction to be something they do as a continuation of its individual species. https://www.princeton.edu/~prolife/articles/embryoquotes2.html we know that from the embryo's conception it is human; and in a stable enviornment meant for its purpose it will grow up to become a fully developed human being. We know from its chromosome/DNA structure that it is human. It is not a cluster of cancer cells or a chimera - it is a human organism. Therefore,since it is human it is up to you to show me how killing it is justified. When does this blob of cells become human and deserving of rights in your view? Because no matter what you say, that is an indicator that we earn our rights as developmental degrees, contradicting the idea that human rights are universal and that we have them because we are human. Here's the thing: plenty of people are mentally disabled and unable to "think" in the way we see fit in order to define a human, and there are people with congenitial insensitivity to pain, yet we are not allowed to kill them.  We aren't allowed to kill them because they are humans and have rights.
I can flip that as "diploid humans do "reproduce," however they are not a separate species from sperm and I don't consider their reproduction to be something they do as a continuation of its individual species." Humans are much more complex than sperm, and they are diploid (although again, there are living species out there for which the haploid half of the life cycle predominates). I know that a lot of textbooks describe conception as the beginning of life.  Because you shared that link, I worry that I haven't communicated my argument well. I started to type out a few replies and I think I've figured out how to expose our disagreement.  What follows is the broad-strokes reply, which I think is often more useful than getting stuck in the weeds.  Please remember that I'm sharing this in good faith and am generally an alright person. I actually do disagree with that, but maybe not the way you think. I don't think that human rights are derived from us being human organisms.  I think that they're derived from us being sentient consciousnesses.  (Please note that by consciousness I do not mean "something that happens to be conscious this second.")  "I" am not my DNA or my cells, I am the pattern of electrical activity hung on the scaffolding of my brain, supported by the flesh of my body. You challenge that then I will think of mentally disabled as being less person-y, and I'd like you to believe me when I say that I don't.  I've had patients in comas and with mental disabilities and I have worked my butt off to make their lives better.  So though it might seem weird to you for me to be proposing a "past this point you're a person, but it doesn't matter how far past this point you are," it really does work internally for me without accidental eugenics occurring. Maybe part of it is that I'm a science fiction fan, or my approach to math and science in general -- it just feels wrong to pin a label (person) on a set (all sets of connected diploid human cells, so long as the set of connected diploid human cells does not cross a uteroplacental barrier) without really examining what fundamental property gives rise to the label.  Why do I care that the cells are diploid?  Connected?  What if they weren't?  Then I start thinking about hive minds, or about machine intelligence, or about how I would feel if I were a machine intelligence with no knowledge of biological life observing Earth and deciding when in the life cycle to start caring about human organisms. Okay, here are the weeds.  Don't feel an urge to reply to them individually. A petri dish containing a sperm and an egg, with the two not yet touching, will also (in a stable environment meant for its purpose) grow up to become a fully developed human being. Our definition as a species involves our ability to interbreed.  With new gene-editing techniques, we could edit just the zona-pellucida proteins and zona-pellucida binding proteins on sperm and eggs and make a set of NeoHumans that are definitely not homo sapiens, because they are a genetically distinct population that cannot interbreed with homo sapiens.  They are otherwise alike in reason and conscience.  So perhaps being genetically human is not necessary for your point? We also know that eggs and sperm are human from their DNA, so perhaps being genetically human is not sufficient for your point either. A sperm is also human, how is killing it justified? But I will pretend you said "since it is a diploid human." Killing it is not just or unjust.  Killing it is neutral.  It has no thoughts or feelings, no consciousness.  At the two-cell stage, I could split it in two and it would form two separate consciousnesses.  If I burst it instead, it forms zero consciousnesses.  If I split it, have I done a good thing, by increasing the number of future consciousnesses?  If I split it and then burst one of the cells, have I done a neutral thing? Look up ICSI.  Suppose I have an injector in an egg, and a sperm in the injector, and I am slowly pulling the plunger with one hand.  In the other hand I have a hammer, poised to smash the whole petri dish.  It is absurd that one millisecond it is not murder and the other millisecond it is. Anencephalic neonate: diploid human living organism, not a person.
Actually, that's not what I said. I brought up mentally disabled patients because you said the fetus' incapability to think makes it OK to kill it. I know you wouldn't see killing them as right. So what makes them so different? You say a human must be concious in order for it to human rights - thus justifying the killing of those not concious- and you go on to say that they don't have to be conscious every single moment, which means that these people may have the right to  life because some of them may be conscious. Fine, but that includes human fetuses (order human diploid, whatever you prefer), because you contradicted your assertion that humans have rights because they are conscious. Just asking so I don't misunderstand you- is suffering and consciousness truly what matters? So if I kill you, and there is no suffering or awareness, then it's ok? Someone lacking consciousnessness is still a human being entitled to full protection (like a coma patient). Saying a sperm is equivalent to a human being is like saying an egg is cake. A sperm is a gamete; a human cell that has the capability to create a human diploid if it is joined with the ovum. It's the difference between a human cell (skin cell, neurons, myocytes, etc -- cells with human DNA that contribute to an organism) and a human organism as a whole. The only time one cell = human organism is the zygote. After that, the human organism is composed of cells, but no one cell is the human organism itself. To be human (diploid) is to have that unique DNA sequence that emerges during conception. The sheer potential for the sperm and egg to meet is not enough.
Let me elaborate on that. By "consciousness" I do not mean the property of being conscious at the moment.  I mean the entity that thinks. Although I am identifiable by my DNA, it is not my identity.  My identity, like I said before, is the pattern of electrical activity in my brain.  I am the set of my memories, decisions, attitudes, and ice cream preferences.  It's something that has a string of existence that started, I think, from the available scientific evidence, around the time that I was born. A lot of it was determined by stuff before I was born, like my DNA and in-utero hormonal exposures.  Some of it was determined by stuff before I was conceived, as well -- there are things that you could have predicted about me just by knowing my parents.  A lot of it was determined by stuff after I was born, like my early childhood experiences. My state of being conscious has ebbed and flowed while I've been alive.  I've slept, dreamed, not dreamed, been in boring lectures.  Maybe I've been in a motorcycle accident and been in a coma for a week.  At any point when I was asleep, or sedated, or anesthetized, harming me would have caused harm to my consciousness.  Even if I as not conscious at the moment, it would have deprived "me" of the future that I was going to have.  Like damaging someone's house when they're not at home. If you knew I was never coming home?  Perhaps I'm in a coma and for medical reasons you know I won't wake up?  Then I don't think there's any harm done, no. This sounds a little dualist.  I'm not quite a dualist.  I think that it's all a matter of a pattern of neurons connecting to each other.  I am that pattern, plus a little bit of adrenals and other hormonal production that influences those neurons. I agree that this is a good definition of "the human organism" for the purpose of convenience in classification for biology.  I disagree that it is a relevant definition for morality. But it still has no potential to create a brain if it is not joined with an endometrial lining.  To me, the sheer potential for the zygote and endometrium to meet is also not enough.  Why is it enough for you?
Existence as a human organism begins when you have 2 sets of DNA in the cell,  exactly when sperm meets egg. Not all zygotes implant successfully, and this is sadly an unavoidable tragedy.  But human life begins at conception. Any other definition is arbitrary. So while I support some forms of birth control,  birth control/abortafacient measures is to kill a fetus that would otherwise implant and survive, thus killing it. Abortion and a human zygote failing to implant are two different stories. One is unavoidable; the other is intentional. Are we in agreement then, that a zygote is a human diploid (give or take the rare extra chromosomes)? Whether you think it is moral to kill them is a completely different story. But I'll address your consciousness argument now- I doubt a newborn or toddler does much thinking as we understand it. I doubt they think about the meaning of their existence, what their purpose is, and so on. Babies at 24 weeks don't do this either.  I'm not making assumptions here,  I'm simply pointing out parallels. If our ability to think is what makes us special, what gives retards  and mentally disabled the right to live?  Their IQ is significantly lower than the average population. A baby without a brain will not experience the world as we do, and if they make it to birth they will be horribly deformed, and will probably die very soon afterwards, but they are still human beings with rights. When do you consider a human to be a "person"?
I would argue (am arguing) that the definition you use is also arbitrary. Human life began millions of years ago. There is something that begins at conception and ends shortly after cardiac death.  100%.  It's called an organism and I'm going to call SALife (for Sarcastic Ace). I care about something that begins (roughly) at birth, and ends at brain death, not cardiac death.  It's what I've been calling consciousness, what I think of as personhood, etc., and let's called it TALife (for Trusted Adult). I think that both are arbitrary (that's what we're doing -- arbitrating).  I think that SALife is what I would decide to use if I were trying to do some evolutionary biology or some genetic studies.  I think that TALife is what I would use if I were determining personhood. I think there are things that are SAlive that aren't TAlive -- like anencephalic neonates (I notice that you disagree with me on this, see below) or brain-dead people.  I think that their existence supports my use of TAlife over SAlife for morality purposes. There are no things on Earth that are TAlive that aren't SAlive, but there are theoretical entities, like machine consciousnesses or alien life, that could meet those criteria.  I also think that, in thought experiments, they would support my use of TAlife over SAlife for morality purposes. Newborns and toddlers do lots of thinking and lots of awareness.  My benchmark for consciousness has nothing to do with intelligence or IQ.  I have a subjective experience of existing behind my own eyes (do you know what I mean?).  I don't have any empiric way of knowing that you also have this experience (solipsism), but I assume that you do because your brain is similar to mine.  Fetuses before 24 weeks do not have the forebrain connections necessary to support this kind of self-awareness.  After 24 weeks they might, but there's reason to believe that they're kept in deep sedation (incidentally). https://www.rcog.org.uk/globalassets/documents/guidelines/rcogfetalawarenesswpr0610.pdf I know the argument you're replying to, but it's not the one that I'm making. You make a large distinction between before and after fertilization, saying things like "the sperm will never develop without the egg (or vice versa)" and "the fertilized egg will, in the right environment, become a human." The right environment, for the fertilized egg, requires an endometrial lining. The right environment, for the unfertilized egg, requires a sperm. So I don't see how you have substantially differentiated between the potentiality of the two.  They both need some other tissue, some other cells, to contribute to their development. Yes, absolutely. I disagree.  And if we disagree on this, I think we might have met the limit of our ability to make forward progress. So here is my attempt to convince you that number of people = number of brains.  Very narrow argument here. Abby and Brittany Hensel are conjoined twins.  They have two heads, two brains.  Two people!  Two hopes, two dreams, two driver's licenses.  Two votes in an election.  They are, however, a single organism. So two brains = two people. Sometimes people have a conjoined partially-vanishing twin, which manifests as a third leg, or a set of legs emerging from their torso.  They are just one person.  So one brain = one person. Sometimes that partially-vanishing twin is something called a parasitic acardiac twin.  In this case, the twin has no heart, and only its lower extremities get sufficient perfusion from the donor twin, due to some details about fetal circulation (blood is inflowing backwards through the umbilical artery).  The uterus contains one normal fetus (for now -- the strain of supplying the parasite twin will eventually give it high-output heart failure and hydrops, but let's ignore that), and one set of legs, pelvis, and abdomen. Man, OB is grisly. It's hard to say if it's one or two organisms, because one is so dependent on the other.  But if you delivered them, I'd think it was just one person. If the parasitic acardiac twin had some anomalies of circulation, and actually developed up to the neck, I'd still think it was just one person. When anencephalic neonates develop up to the tentorium, I think it's zero people. (Of course, to their parents, they are a loved and lost child.  Parents love and name and dream for their children before birth and, sometimes, before pregnancy.  Their loss is real.)

I think another important point is that the dna contained in a sperm is identical to the whole organism from which it came. Another indication that it is a PART of the male organism or body and not a separate entity itself.
Edit: I assumed from your comment you were arguing that a zygote is not human because it contains identical DNA to the ovum and sperm cells it came from. Apologies, I've heard that argument genuinely used before and I was confused by your comment.
Actually I'm arguing the opposite. Also a zygote does not have identical dna to the egg and sperm. The dna is combined to make completely new and unique strands.
Yeah I figured that out. Sorry for the misunderstanding there.
The period of time is insignificant.
It's not though. The fact that in that amount of time something goes from microscopic to 6-8 pounds, from a few cells to a trillion cells, from not even having a neural tube to developing a brain and internal organs, from being 100% dependent on its host for survival to being able to be sustained outside the womb shows that the amount of time is very significant.
If you were in a coma for more than 9 months should we switch your life support off?
Yeah, you should because you're unlikely to regain brain function after a coma that long, but that doesn't have much to do with what we're talking about (development of an embryo). There is not a substantial difference in development at that point. But for everything I just said in my last comment, there is a HUGE substantial difference between a fertilized ovum and a baby. The time it takes to develop makes a HUGE difference.
Ok so because a baby is less developed than an adult we can kill it?
Sigh I don't feel that you're here in a good faith debate but here goes: No, we can't kill babies outside the womb. We can terminate a pregnancy because 1) it is so underdeveloped that it can't be considered human yet (seriously I would challenge you to look at 4 week old embryos of other species and see if you can point out the human one) 2) it is inside the mother's womb and 100% dependent on her (and her alone) to survive, therefore her bodily autonomy is more important 3) pregnancy and childbirth carry a HUGE risk of bodily harm, permanent complications, or death to the mother and no woman should have to go through that for a child she doesn't want, see bodily autonomy again

I know, but I've read that arguing with someone doesn't do anything to change their mind but it could influence other people reading it that are more open to other perspectives. So even though I know that person is a fool I don't want statements like that to go unchallenged because of fence-sitters that may be lurking. When you're the one with rational arguments and the other comes across as a sensationalizing incoherent strawman, you can influence other readers.
I'm trolling by saying a human fetus might actually be a human? Or by saying that you shouldn't have a right to an abortion on the sole grounds of the fetus' location?
If it isn't a human, what species of animal is it?
I don't know, do you? They all look the same to me.

I call serious bs on this title. This claim is in no way back up in the article. This is the kind of thing that makes it very difficult for prolifers and prochoicers to converse.
Do you know of any articles that both sides of the discussion, could find some common ground on? Most articles are partisan .
Not sure but I think that all they had to do was add the term person to the end of the title to be clear.

And when it doesn't kill it can cause major health concerns and injury.  My cousin recently had a wanted baby and is now suffering serious complications that no woman should ever have to endure against their will.
I'm so sorry about your cousin; I hope she will recover.  My only pregnancy/birth experience was a difficult pregnancy the entire nine months, followed by high blood pressure (pre-eclampsia), hospitalization, early induction, 16 hours of agonizing labor, and after all that, a c-section.  I was actually relieved when I heard the c-section was necessary, because after getting the local anesthetic, all the pain stopped, and my baby was delivered safely. No way was I ever going to suffer all of that again.  Pregnancy/birth was bad enough the first time, and that was for a wanted pregnancy.  Forcing a woman to suffer any of that against her will is utterly barbaric.
Even without getting into the short-term, life-threatening consequences, I think it's reasonable to discuss pelvic floor disorders.
You said that the baby was "wanted." Yet, said that the pain was "against her will." I'm sensing an apparant contradiction. You can get "complications," and recieve chronic pain from just about any procedure. With this line of logic, even wanted children should be aborted just in case it is inconvenient for the mother in any way. Wanted children are exactly that, and I know my mom would be willing to endure any amount of pain to give me life, too bad there are so few as blessed as I am to be given such a mother. Too many mothers would rather snuff out their child's life than have to deal with the inconveniences of birth and motherhood.
No contradiction. She wanted a baby and she had one, now she is going through severe pain and complications from the pregnancy and birth, not against her will as she wanted to have a baby.  The against the woman's will part had to do with women forced into continuing a pregnancy and giving birth against their will.  I said that women shouldn't be forced to go through pain and severe complications and possibly die from a pregnancy they don't want.  And birth isn't just an inconvenience, like the article says women die from it and like I said many women who don't die experience injury and complications.  Women are more than incubators, they can decide to endure pregnancy and childbirth in order to have a wanted baby, but they shouldn't be forced to and they shouldn't have their personhood and autonomy stripped from them and given to the contents of their uteruses.
I agree with alot of that! The way you worded your last post didn't make alot of what you just said very clear. I am always open to other's viewpoints. Thank you for the input. While I don't entirely agree with every claim you have made as previously stated, I do understand your persepctive quite a bit better. I never made a claim that women are merely incubators, nor that is their sole purpose, I just do find it to be very important however. I do not agree fully that if there are likely or know life altering complications or likely death associated with a given birth, that it is justified. I also do not think anybody should be forced to give birth if they don't want to. Yet, I still believe that in alot of cases, the mother wouldn't be permanantely harmed physically, the child could be perfectly cared for, but it's just inconvenient. I'm saying this as one exception to the general use of abortion. I just don't think it should be used as a form of birth control. Again, some people use birth control and still get pregnant, however 99 % of people who use birth control correctly don't. So for the people who could have used precaution, but didn't, could financially care for the child, and have no likely physical complications, I would say while it is still their right that should not be taken from them, I don't agree with it. Not trying to seem insensitive to the people that do have complications regarding pregnancy, or birth.
Yes, many would. These people do not make good mothers and are often abusive if/when they become them. Yet they are of the personality to not give a child up for adoption because that would be self sacrifice. So I'm glad they don't have them. The less parents like this, and people raised by them, the better off society will be. "Bad mothers" should not breed.

Very interesting!  Thank you for sharing.
Hey,  I'm new to this subreddit and would like to ask, how can you possibly argue against the "embryos and fetuses have a soul " thing?  I'm home from college and often but heads with my mom.She's very conservative and pro life ,  and she often baits me into arguments about sex and boys,  and wonders if I'm seeing someone. She then turns my words against me and tries to shame me into "having morals like I was raised to".I'm trying to get her to care more about these issues instead of seeing them as a one dimensional moral argument.  She rebukes my logic at every turn, and when it comes to this I'm usually too tired to even think of a counter argument.  She's extremely catholic (which I was raised to be) and I'm agnostic atheist. As you can imagine she sees this as a huge failure.  To be honest,  I really don't even have an opinion on whether or not people, or embryos,  actually have souls  as I'm atheist  so I have no idea what to say to that anyway.  Its exhausting and I hate that I even have to ask this.**Edit She's pro life.  Didn't catch that typo
Just because she holds that specific belief doesn't mean everyone else does or even has to. Hence freedom of religion or lack thereof. And even if it was "wrong" to be prochoice, she should follow in Jesus' footsteps and not judge/worry about it or impose her belief on others because God will take care of it in the end if it really matters. I was also raised Catholic and am also agnostic/atheist now, so I hear that bullshit all the time.
Here's a few, if you still have the patience! But also, your happiness/having an alright relationship with your family might be more important and that's ok (you do you). Basic bodily autonomy: even if there was a fully grown human who needed to use my organs to live (i.e. donating a kidney, marrow transfusion), with a soul and a consciousness and a personality, they can't use my body without my consent. Even if I were dead and the only match for a family member who will die if they don't get a piece of my liver, if I didn't consent to being an organ donor when I was alive, my body is my body About 10-20% of known pregnancies end in miscarriage. Add in all the unknown pregnancies and miscarriage rates are a lot higher. If there was a disease that randomly killed over 20% of children, we'd dedicate all our resources to investigating why it happens and what we can do to stop it. I don't see any anti-choicers dumping millions into miscarriage research. (I'm pulling from this article called "How I lost faith in the pro life movement" by a pro-life activist who became pro-choice once she saw the logical inconsistencies. A great read! Even if she believes that, she has no right to impose her beliefs on others
Sorry for the reply to a two week old post, but this is something I've never thought of before and I'm absolutely adding that to my mental list of arguments. Thanks for posting it!
Learning more about biology (specifically fetal development) is likely to muddy these waters for her. An example that should be easy for her to approach is Siamese twins: do they have two souls or only one? If they only have one soul, what happens to it if one twin dies and the other lives longer? If they have two souls, considering that they started development as a single embryo that partially split during development, did it start out with two souls, or did one arrive later? Personally, I think a more interesting example is [chimerism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chimera_(genetics)), in which multiple genetically distinct zygotes fuse into a single embryo with different genes in different body parts. Do they start out with multiple souls and lose some as the embryo fuses together? If so, where do these souls go? Do some of the zygotes not have souls in the first place, so that the final person ends up with only one soul? or maybe human chimeras have multiple souls even into adulthood? The more I learned about developmental anomalies, the more convinced I became that souls do not and cannot exist.
Maybe don't have these arguments. It sounds like your mother wants to slut-shame you.  It sounds like she starts out these discussions with a goal of disagreeing with you, by your description of it. When somebody is trying to find a reason to denigrate you, it isn't a good time to change their mind.  Sidestep the blow and let them dull their blade on the ground. You are asking for tactics, but what you need is strategy.
Does your mother know you're agnostic/atheist?  Because if so, the simplest reply to "But the fetus has a soul!!!!" is just to shrug and say "Agree to disagree."  That's one of the nice things about abortion as a topic- once we get all the BS out of the way, it frequently comes down to opinions that might be swayed but really can't be "disproven"- one party believes in embryonic personhood and another doesn't, and that's that. Alternatively, you could expose her to the arguments by religious folks who are pro-choice- there's even a Catholics for Choice organization!- but those typically take a very liberal interpretation of religion, which might not work. Ultimately, if you're being bullied into having "discussions" on the topic that are really thinly veiled ways to insult and interrogate you, it might behoove you to find a way to avoid the conversation if possible, or steer it into a direction where you have more control.  Honest exchange is having different views and explaining them to one another, asking questions, gaining insight, even if you both end up disagreeing.  You're not beholden to defend your stances to someone whose only goal is changing your mind or ragging on your beliefs.
Other conversation starters: Do animals have "souls"? Can a person's soul die while they are alive? Can a soul be killed? Is killing someone else's soul as bad as killing their physical person? Is there soul suicide? If fetuses have souls and souls = life Are women who miscarry murderers or just felony manslaughters? Or just bad people?  Or just bad women? Or just bad mothers? It has to be their fault, right? There's a belief in Judaism (I'm paraphrasing) that a fetus is just a fetus unless/until it's born. To refer to an unborn baby as an inevitable person is basically asking for a jinxed, failed pregnancy. One superstition I like is that expecting parents don't share their chosen baby names with extended family or friends prior to birth. Loosely translated: don't name your chickens before they hatch. A fetus is, at most, a maybe-baby. One day, it MAY be a baby, but it's just not a person until it is born.
The Bible says life begins at first breath https://dailykos.com/stories/2014/3/19/1285933/-Bible-Life-Begins-at-Breath-Not-Conception
See if she can explain what a soul is, and then, using her definition, ask her why a fetus or an embryo has one, and when it has one. When it's four cells instead of two? When it has a heartbeat? If it has a soul when it has a heartbeat, why then? Why wouldn't a soul be attached to the brain? If it is attached to the brain, then do coma patients not have souls? At what point of "brain-deadness" does a soul disappear? If you want to get really ridiculous...when would a zombie stop having a soul? Take her down a logical path of consequences. Where does assuming X (that embryos and fetuses have souls )get you when you assume it is true?


That is the craziest law I have ever heard of.
There have definitely been worse ones.

In other news, no one was surprised at the result of this study. I feel so bad for women that have to deal with the type of garbage, hateful laws that some states still have.
Shocker! Put this up on /r/nottheonion
Obvious thing is obvious.

get the fuck outta here with that nonsense
Anti-choicers like you have been pushing this same tired disinformation since the 60's. Change the record.
It's not planned parenthood, it's our whole economic and justice system. If PPs and abortion clinics shut down, it won't mean poor WOC will magically escape the economic conditions that lead them to have higher rates of abortion, it will mean they have worse health outcomes and higher maternal mortality (see Texas). Yeah, reproductive freedom orgs should do more to highlight how capitalism leads to an imbalance in who needs abortions, and that an abortion due to economic reasons is not a true choice, but the website you linked is nothing but a scare tactic to make the anti-choice movement seem better for black people.
That would require the person to switch their hatred from PP (who they hate regardless) to the government, (who might be republican and therefore great. So they will ignore you and keep spouting this shit, oblivious to the actual problem.

Mike Pence's wet dream.
El Salvador is a shit country.

"too immature to choose an abortion"? But somehow not too immature to carry a pregnancy to term? That's some fucked up logic even beyond the privacy violation and general craziness.
About damn time.
I hate the Alabama GOP so much. They tried to force a twelve-year-old girl to give birth.



Of course they do.  And yet some forced birthers still try to argue that El Salvador doesn't actually have proper "pro-life" laws...
El Salvador has a rather high rate of murder, top 5 in the whole world. But no, instead of being "pro life" and trying to get murder rates down, let's throw money at this stupid fucking idea of banning abortions.
This subreddit is fine with prochociers from other countries provide free abortions in countries where it is banned. If you're fine with that it is hypocritical to be unhappy about this. You're either against foreign intervention or you are not. Personally I'm against both. It's ideological colonialism. Hardly better than the "white man's burden."
I mean, it's certainly not hypocritical . . . that's like saying someone can't be upset about, say, bombs being sent to a foreign country if they're happy about food aid being sent to a foreign country. The only thing that makes it hypocritical is a stance that completely disavows foreign intervention but at the same time allows for certain interventions.
Pro choice and pro life are not the same as food aid and bombs. They're ideologies.
What I mean to say is if you oppose X and support its opposite, !X, that doesn't make you a hypocrite, unless you had previously condemned Y (of which both X and !X are a subset).  Right? The only thing that would make opposing Catholic anti-abortion money going to El Salvador (while supporting, say, pro-choice money doing the same) hypocritical is if someone had said "Anti-abortion funding going overseas is wrong- nobody should be getting involved in other countries' business!"  It's not hypocritical to dislike anti-abortion actions and support abortion rights-related actions, just like it similarly isn't hypocritical for Catholic groups to send anti-abortion money to El Salvador . . . provided they didn't previously complain about pro-choice efforts in the same country to be bad because it constituted foreign intervention.
As someone who I don't love but still respect once said, "Women's rights are human rights."

Republicans are getting voters the only way they know how
I don't know what's more sad - uncaring people who try to win votes or uncaring people who vote...
Or the people that don't vote at all and let this happen?
Everyone except for Democratic voters and minors are to blame.
Duh?
Wow, so they don't want them to have abortions but, won't allow anyone to help them make good choices as prevention.

"This is a good thing. This is what you were put on earth to do.” That comment says it all ! 🙄
"that encounter, she says, made her feel like “an incubator instead of my own person”" 😭
I quit reading at the part where someone suggested going to a dentist for a pap smear. Just. fucking. can't.
Terry Branstad, Kim Reynolds, and the Republicans in the Iowa state legislature should all be ashamed of themselves.
This is the best tl;dr I could make, original reduced by 95%. (I'm a bot) Extended Summary | FAQ | Feedback | Top keywords: plan#1 health#2 Parenthood#3 Iowa#4 provide#5
Pro-lifer: "If abortion isn't murder, then why is it considered a double murder when a pregnant women is murdered?"How do you respond?
Abortion is about bodily autonomy, the right to control your own body. It's an abortion if the woman chooses to end her own pregnancy. It's murder if anyone else does. It all has to do with consent and the right to your own body.
To further clarify - it's murder if anyone else ends her pregnancy against her will and she decides to press charges. The entire concept of murder is because people decide it is. Since a pregnancy can have no value until a pregnant woman decides it has value to her, she is the only one who can decide if someone else murdered it or not. (she has to prove someone terminated her pregnancy against her will in a court of law before it will be declared murder - if she doesn't press charges, the state won't press charges either but they would in a regular murder case even if no one else did) If she is unable to decide (dead, coma without prior declarations, etc), the law's default is that she wanted to remain pregnant until proven otherwise in a court of law. Personally, I think the charge of murder is silly, since only people can be murdered.  The charges should be attempted assault if she doesn't sustain harm on herself or assault if she sustains harm on herself with the addition of wrongful fetal termination if she aborts as a result or fetal assault if the pregnancy is damaged in someway but not aborted or attempted fetal assault of it's clear they were trying to harm her pregnancy but failed to do so.
So basically: it isn't murder if a particular person (the mother) wanted the child to be killed. I highly doubt that argument would actually work against the pro-lifers.
There is no argument about it.  Only the pregnant woman can decide if HER pregnancy has value because it's HER pregnancy.  If anyone else tried to assign value to HER pregnancy, they would have to go through HER to do so.  There is no way to do so without DEVALUING HER.
"Devaluing her" nice hypocrisy
she already has meaning to herself, she is fully conscious and has a past that she recalls and others perhaps as well - so yes, YOU would devalue HER if YOU went through HER against HER will to try to give HER pregnancy meaning to YOU
[removed]
I'm sorry that women having complete control over when they bear children enrages you so much, but as long as something is living inside my body, using my body's resources, putting me at risk, and 100% dependent on my body (and only mine) to survive, it is part of my body and I get to decide what I do about it.
You get to decide to murder a human being.
Yes, if an intruder comes into my house, whether they explicitly intend to harm me or not, they pose an unknown threat and I am allowed to take action to protect myself.
So if I had a wife who used my money, my house, my property, ate my food, it's ok for me to beat her or to kill her? After all, she's acting the same way as my property.
"Acting the same way as my property"- what the hell does that even mean? I don't know what point you're trying to make. Of course you have no right to kill someone for spending your money, I don't know how this is relevant. We are talking about something being part of your body.
I use money to maintain and use my property, and of course I can do what I want with my property, such as break it. Same with my supposed wife, I use my money to "maintain" her, so I can "break" her. Obviously this is incorrect because, as you said, using my money doesn't mean I have the right to kill them as I do with the right to my property. Same with unborn babies. Using my body doesn't give me the right to kill them the same way I can get rid of an organ I don't want.
Bodily autonomy means you have the right to control your own body. Your wife is not your property, this is a really stupid argument. She would not die if you cut her off financially.
Where I live, that would be child destruction, not murder. In some parts of the US, it's pro-lifers who have campaigned to put the double murder law in place so they can make that argument!
Good point, the "double murder" argument only works in the US. But tbh, calling it "child destruction" instead doesn't sound anymore appealing than "murder".....
Pretty much that laws that establish fetal personhood- even in limited cases like vehicular manslaughter, for instance- have never been advocated for by pro-choice folks. People seem to tout it like a gotcha- "You want it both ways!"- but it's usually anti-abortion folks who want to create a precedent wherein fetal death is treated like murder.  Wanting a woman who lost a pregnancy she would've otherwise continued to be able to sue for losses and damages isn't the same.

That sounds like a literal slavery argument, good luck actually using it against pro-lifers lol.

You keep laughing and saying arguments won't work against pro-lifers. It's already a no-win situation. I don't know anyone who is pro choice who is dedicating any time to arguing with pro-lifers. The goal is to protect the women, their choices and the laws which provide this protection.
"dedicating any time arguing with pro-lifers." ^ What an ignorant mindset. It's important to possess good arguments just in case someone challenges your views. And the "goal" you mentioned in your last sentence is sustained through persuading more people to the pro-choice ideology (which would require good arguments). But since you said it's a "no-win situation", why even have a "goal" in the first place?
Not ignorant at all. I don't need to persuade anyone. I don't need to justify my actions or beliefs. You are misunderstanding everything.
It's MY body, YOU have to justify yourself to ME before you lay a hand on MY body.
You realize that this is the exact rhetoric prolifers use right? It's the babies body. We need to justify killing them in their mind.
No, it's MY body's fertilized egg.  THEY need to justify laying their hands on MY body to ME.  If they don't, they start a war with ME.
Well not from a biological point of view anyway. Things that belong to your body generally have the same dna makeup as you (the whole organism). They also have the same blood type and act to help the organism function as a whole. These things do not apply to a human embryo. This is why a fertilized egg aka a human embryo or preborn child is biologically a separate entity. I'm curious why you think a human embryo belongs to the mother?
The part where it's inside the mother's body and 100% dependent on her (and her alone) to continue developing.

MY body's eggs are MINE, not YOURS or ANYONE ELSE'S.  Until I choose to let them leave MY body or until I choose to remove them from MY body, I decide what happens to them, NOT you or anyone else. If YOU or anyone else tries to go through MY body against MY will to enact YOUR or their will on MY body's eggs, you will start a war with ME, and I WILL use deadly force to end that war you start!

I think it'd be more along the lines of dehumanizing/objectifying (i.e. literally viewing as an object, as property) the fetus as whites used to do to non-whites as a pre-cursor to slavery; that's the way the anti-abortion folks tend to make the comparison. Because yeah, you have no idea how many times I've been like "Um, if abortion is like slavery, they're sure some sh*tty slaveowners, seeing as how all they seem to want to do is get them to freedom outside of their bodies!".
I assume you are under the impression that it IS double murder. I've never seen that charge. I also assume, based on your account that you are simply bating people for a response. Pro Choice is a conclusion people come to from logic and reason. It's not funded on feelings of shame, emotion and religion. A woman , in the mind of someone who is pro choice, has the right to be pregnant or not to be pregnant with equal merit. She has autonomy over her body. Regardless of circumstance it's her body, her decision and we believe it is a medical choice that should remain a legal choice. The Supreme Court has upheld that right. Individuals, states and politicians threaten the rights of women. The majority of people however, not just the vocal minority, also protect those rights. Pro-life , or rather , anti choice is only a loud and virulent minority. They are oppressors and there is no argument to win. Their beliefs are strong and not up for debate. You can tick off 100 logical responses to every issue and they can retort that "you are going to Hell". What's the point in wasting time and energy on arguing with them ? I support them and their right to NOT get abortions. I am not threatened by the fact that they don't support my rights. I accept that we feel differently . They don't .
I take it as an opportunity to shift the discussion away from how we define things, and towards how we describe things. I'll say something like: If it weren't, would you let me use it as an argument that abortion isn't murder? Some lawmakers in a room decided to make this a law.  They didn't do it because of something inherent about the nature of ending a pregnancy or destroying a fetus, they did it because it makes them seem tough on crime and compassionate about babies at the same time.  That's why it's considered double murder. And who's going to be against that?  As a society, we generally like to protect pregnant women, and part of that is protecting their goal of continuing their pregnancy -- because most people whose pregnancies you know about have desired pregnancies. So why should the politically popular decisions of some lawmakers change my view on fetal personhood?
Intention matters. Why are there different types of murder charges? Is self defense different than murdering someone intentionally? Same with pregnancy: is the mother intentionally choosing to create a new human? Should that matter compared to unwanted pregnancies and abortion? I like to highlight that context matters.
I actually don't believe it should be charged as double murder. If you assault someone and a pregnancy is terminated due to the assault, I think assault is still a useful good category and mb another new category can be of use for this situation.
I don't think it should be double murder. The same people who support the double murder argument are the ones who are anti abortion.
I thought that it wasn't? Don't they have to establish that the fetus took a breath on its own to justify murder?
"Double murder" is purposely concocted by religious folk to make it seem that killing the pregnant woman is equivalent to killing her fetus. It is spin.
I never said I agreed with the law.  Killing a pregnant person only kills one person.  A law that treats illegal downloading as ordinary theft is also mistaken.  Laws don't necessarily reflect reality.

Ireland and North Ireland are Catholic theocracies.

Excellent article.  The only thing I take up is the whole distinction of "what constitutes pregnancy" thing.  Obviously, in medical terms, pregnancy is defined by implantation- that's the means by which it is detectable.  But I also think that there's room for- or we should make space for- people who have personal moral concerns about the idea of preventing implantation that might have otherwise taken place.  Which is not to say that hormonal birth control does so- the vast and overwhelming evidence is that contraception does exactly as its name implies, preventing conception- but rather that dismissing people's concerns is a bad move, in my opinion. People who believe that a fertilized egg has moral value should have the facts in front of them, instead of becoming immediately skeptical of hormonal birth control because they think pro-choicers are arbitrarily trying to redefine "pregnancy" in order to get them to take abortifacients. I remember reading a compelling argument from Amanda Marcotte once that pointed out how a woman not using hormonal birth control would be more likely to shed/menstruate fertilized eggs than one using birth control, precisely because she would have less chance of fertilized eggs in the first place.  That is an excellent argument- one that respects someone's personal moral views and offers up a reasoned explanation for them to make the decision they deem best.


Cheating on your partner is immoral, but not illegal.

You said that if something is immoral it should mean it's illegal and I was providing an example of something that's not. Please keep in mind that not everyone feels abortion is murder. I suspect that people that feel it's immoral are not equating it with murder. Many people draw a distinction from removing a tiny embryo and killing a fully formed human independent from the womb. Even if they consider it a bit immoral they are not equating it with murder. The Nazis tortured and abused and murdered innocent civilians, I'm not clear what you're suggesting they did that wasn't illegal.
So your argument is that all immoral things are murder? When I call something immoral, I am saying that I think people shouldn't do it. When I say something should be illegal, I am saying that I think the government should make people not do it. There is a tremendous difference between the two. I have had many patients who should stop reproducing.  They do not have custody of their children and they keep using recreational drugs that pose risks in their pregnancy.  They are producing children with medical problems who are a burden on the state.  It is not moral for them to keep reproducing. I would never contracept them against their will, and I would never support a state apparatus that did so.
No an immoral action that involves ending a human life, that sounds to me like murder. Why shouldn't someone get an abortion though? If it's just any other medical procedure then it would be like saying you don't want people to treat their cancer. Why is it immoral, if it isn't murder?
Please have this conversation as though you are speaking with somebody who believes abortion to be neither murder nor immoral.
I think what /u/Wehavecrashed is saying is that if abortion is immoral it ought to be illegal rather than if something is immoral it ought to be illegal.
I also have a suspicion about what argument they could be forming.  My first section was me calling them out on saying it poorly.  The other two sections were responses to what I think their underlying sentiment was.
It seemed like you were going with the idea that they were suggesting that all things immoral are murder and ought to be illegal. Perhaps they did not phrase it properly so I was trying to be helpful by pointing out that I didn't think this is what /u/Wehavecrashed was really saying at all. I think what they were trying to say was more along the lines of if abortion is immoral then it is equivalent to murder and murder (unjustified killing) ought to be illegal. Rather then everything immoral should be illegal.
It wasn't an idea that they suggested it.  They did suggest it. What is your goal?  Do you think that you have been helpful?
I know they suggested it but that is not what they meant. Haven't you ever made a mistake in the way you phrased a concept? To let you know that they did not mean what you thought they did. Clear up the confusion. I'd like to think so. Although you just seem annoyed so who knows.
It's not that I'm annoyed, exactly.  I'm more curious about who you are and what drives you.  I've never really felt that you had insight to offer me about the person I was replying to.* They had constructed a poor argument.  If you want to call it a mistake, that's fine, but I'm not sure it was.  A mistake implies some carelessness, like they knew that it was a logical flaw but but forgot.  It could have been that mistake.  It could also have been ignorance -- that they didn't know that there was a logical flaw in it.  It could also have been that they were aware of that flaw, but had a way around it -- valid or invalid -- that I hadn't thought of. So I wanted to see how they lampshaded or patched together their argument.  And then you came in saying what they thought and it was just very odd.  It makes me feel like saying, "speak about your own experiences.  Don't put words in the mouths of others." Of course, it's a free Internet.  So really speak about whatever you like, however you like. *Edit: that's not true.  I thought maybe you were going to back it up with your own position, and was hoping to reply to that.
Sorry so long to reply, dealing with family stuff. I am prolife if that is what you are asking. What drives me is to erase the confusions and misconceptions between prolife and prochoice. I think it's such a big waste of time to argue about things that aren't getting to the heart of the matter. I thought I could get you both to the heart of the matter faster. I guess I shouldn't have had such a big head about it because it seems I didn't do such a good job. My opinion is that abortion is immoral and should be illegal (in most cases). It should be illegal not because it is immoral but rather because I don't believe that killing innocent human beings should be a legal sanctioned solution to one's problems (exceptions exist). And of course I believe that all living human beings are persons in the legal and moral sense of the word.
Hope your family stuff is OK. I also like to get rid of those confusions and misconceptions.  I feel like I run into a lot of people who... skip steps along the way in their reasoning.  Getting them to write things out and back up what they're thinking helps.  (I feel.) This is an interesting line.  It's structured as a contrast "the reason is not A but rather B." A: abortion is immoral. B: killing innocent human beings should not be a legal sanctioned solution to one's problems. I suspect this is a bit of a false contrast.  I think that the word "should" is sneaking the morality from A into B with some window dressing.  Do you see what I mean? Why are A and B different?  How are those motivations distinct for you?



He signs global death warrants for many people, so I'm not surprised.


From the article:  "Would any mothers care to comment on whether their pregnancies caused any pain…?" My pregnancy sure as hell did.  Even though mine was a wanted pregnancy, it was a difficult one.  Constant "morning sickness" (yeah, right; it often lasted whole days) in the first three months, hospitalization at delivery time due to concern about high blood pressure.  Oh, and lest I forget, the "glorious" 16 hours of excruciating pain during labor before the necessary c-section delivery.  There was nothing glorious about that part; just lots of pain and misery.  (I think anyone who tells a girl or young woman who has never had children things like "the pain really isn't that bad" when talking about labor pain is either a woman who had a very easy delivery or a flat-out liar.) It was awful enough for me to go through once (I never wanted more kids after DS), and I was over 25 at the time.  I cannot imagine forcing a 12-year-old girl, a rape victim no less, to go through that horrific painfest when she's already been traumatized enough. And these "pro-life" people wonder why they're so often called anti-choice.  Go figure./s
What a sickening piece of human trash that woman is. How sick in the head do you have to be??? By the way --- can we start considering forced birth to be rape? After all, forced insertion of anything into the vagina is rape, so what about forced extraction of a fetus out of the vagina? Rape.
It's going to be extracted either way.
I pulled up the [original article] (http://www.al.com/news/birmingham/index.ssf/2017/07/lawyer_blasts_court_ruling_all.html) this piece pulled used as its source material and surprise, surprise she is an all around bigot and religious nut that has no place in the judicial system.
I am intested to see how the natural law prolifers she this, as it's ' natural ' for a 12 year old who menstruates to become pregnant if she has sex.

Facts and support for the Republican party are irreconcilable.
I'm looking to protest (counter protest I guess) the Pro Life groups and can't seem to find a calendar for any of their local groups online stating when they will be present. Can anyone point me towards some resources for the Greater Cincinnati, OH groups that are planning to picket Planned Parenthood or any other women's health clinics? Thanks in advance.
I'm not sure that there is a calendar published of anti-choice protests, but usually they protest at clinics on days that abortions are performed.  Sometimes they protest every day the clinic is operating, but usually there are more on the days that abortions are performed.  So if you can find clinics in your area that is your best bet. Also you might be interested in protesting CPCs in your area.  They are all over the place, usually government funded, and run by anti-choicers.  They are not bound by medical ethics, they do not employ actual medical staff, and they have been known to lie to and withhold information from women.  Protesting them is a relatively new strategy being used by pro-choicers, but I think it has a future because it gives anti-choicers a taste of their own medicine.  A group has started called Expose Fake Clinics and they are asking for people to protest.  Here is their website.  Also Women Have Options - Ohio recently posted on their Facebook page that they were protesting CPCs, though this was in Columbus.  Women Have Options is the abortion fund in Ohio so if you get in touch with them I am sure that they know when all of the protests are at clinics and when they are going to go out theirselves in Cincinnati.

I'm interested in people's thoughts on personhood, obviously there's no single definition of personhood, but at what point do you think a fetus/baby/human becomes a person? Is a human inherently a person? Does personhood offer protections and status that merely being a human doesn't?
It's a complicated question that doesn't really have a right answer in my opinion. But when I think about it, until that fetus can survive outside of the mother's womb, it's basically a parasite in my books. I know it seems a little harsh, but that's just how I've already viewed it.
How do you determine viability? Is it based on the best possible medical outcome or what is available at the time? Is a viable fetus entitled to protection? I agree there's no right answer, I think the value in the question is in the discussion of it. I think it's at the core of the abortion debate, and understanding how someone views it is key to understanding the topic from both sides.
I want to say best medical outcome, but based on other experiences within my immediate family I'd personally probably go with what is available. My elder sister was born very premature, and was the size of my mother's hand. She most likely would have died had my mother not been able to get to the hospital in time where they were able to access the situation and support my sister. My elder brother passed away shortly after birth, he was premature and his back had split open in the process. Despite being in a hospital, they couldn't save him (Of course this was close to 25 years ago) and even if they had, he would have been paralyzed. While I love my sister and would have loved to meet my brother, I don't think either of them were a "person" at that stage. I don't think I was a person at that stage either, although I was born only four weeks early. However, I think of people as developed beings. From around 1 and a half up, once they start to develop more of a personality. It's a crude way of thinking, I suppose, and I imagine I'll change my mind once I have children of my own. It's definitely a tough subject to talk about and really articulate properly at times. Although I do try my best, sorry if any of this is too much like rambling.
So personhood is the development of personality and consciousness, not merely viability or the potential for consciousness? Is a newborn person? Nothing wrong with a good ramble, espically when you're explaining the experiences you're familiar with.
When I think of pregnancy and interact with those who are expecting I don't really consider fetuses persons at all. It reality my thoughts are entirely about the potential mother and her situation first. That's why I'm pro choice. I want the child to have a good life in the future, but the key step to that is the parents current situation. If the parent(s) aren't financially or emotionally able, the best thing for everyone is to abort. Pregnancy takes such a huge toll on a woman's body, I cringe at the thought of going through it - despite my desire to have children in the future. Personhood for me is definitely the development of consciousness and personality. I wouldn't call a newborn a person. It's a living being, sure. But I'd put it on the same level as a cat or a dog. It's alive, I wouldn't want anything bad to happen to it, but the loss of a newborn is much less tragic than that of an eight year old to me - if that makes sense.
Gradually between birth and adulthood. Around the time they start talking is probably a good benchmark. Of course, personhood is irrelevant to whether a person or other organism has the right to live inside an unwilling human being. No one has the right to do that.
Surely a person has a right to life though.
A person has the right to live using their own body, not anyone else's. If I need a kidney transplant to stay alive, I can't drug you and drag you into an operating theater to harvest one of yours, even if that's the only way I can keep living. That would be immoral.
So it's wrong to abort a viable fetus?
Absolutely not, although it may be possible at very late stages of pregnancy to induce a live birth instead. Viable or not, no one has the right to occupy your body if you don't want them there. Edit: I'm not sure how you got "it's wrong to abort a viable fetus" from my last comment. A viable fetus occupying an unwilling host is the equivalent of me drugging you and taking your kidney when I don't even need it to survive. That's obviously even more immoral than violating someone to preserve your own life.
Ok, but if the fetus is viable, and the only problem is it's location, why does it have to be aborted? Why can't birth be induced or have a Caesarian? That example is not accurate, the fetus does need to "steal the kidney" to survive, but it's not stealing anything from the mother's body that can't be repaired or replaced. Can I kill anyone who is violating my bodily autonomy?
I just said that inducing birth may be an option in some cases. The point is that ending the pregnancy is a fundamental right. The damage caused by pregnancy is often permanent. If that's your only option for defending yourself, of course. If someone is raping you and you can get away without killing them, that's the most moral course of action. But if your only way to stop the attack is to pick up a gun and shoot your rapist, that's justifiable self defense. Pregnancy is of course a much worse violation than rape.
Ok, but why should it be a right to end it's life if there are other options? So is death. So can I kill a prison guard who is keeping me locked up? How? 50% of women seeking abortion aren't even using birth control. They've made no effort to protect themselves. Often they've brought it on themselves. And no I'm not victim blaming here because they aren't victims of pregnancy.
There usually aren't other options. Abortion after 24 weeks (viability) almost never occurs unless there is something seriously wrong with the fetus. Locking someone up =/= invading their body. If that prison guard is raping you, go ahead and defend yourself. The severity of an assault is not determined by the number of steps the victim took to protect themselves, but by the damage and pain it causes. Pregnancy lasts much longer than rape and is vastly more likely to result in long-term physical damage.
It's still denying bodily autonomy. In many countries doing drugs is also against the law. Is that a denial of bodily autonomy? Can I kill the police and courts that enforce that? Oh gee, if it's that bad they should probably bother protecting themselves against it. This is like visiting Africa, not getting any vaccines, sleeping without a mosquito net and then complaining you got malaria.

The personhood arguments all have the flaw that they ignore or handwave the personhood of the woman involved. As a person, she has the right to bodily autonomy. This means that whether or not the fetus is a person, the woman gets to decide if it is permitted to make use of her body.
So does any violation of bodily autonomy warrant killing the person that is doing so?
No. In general, the force used should be of the minimum amount possible to stop the violation. It's just that there is no non-lethal way to stop the violation in this instance. (Or rather, the non-violent methods have all failed.)
My opinion is simple.  It's a person at birth, not before.
Same.
I don't think it's especially relevant to the abortion discussion, but I say it's a person when it's born.
How is it not relevant? Historically the denial of personhood has been used to commit crimes against humanity: such as black slavery in the US, or the holocaust. (Not that I'm comparing abortion to those events) Why birth? Does physical location determine personhood? If a black slave escaped to the north, are they suddenly more of a person?
... What? Lol. I thought you weren't basing your argument on slavery and Holocaust references. But then you did it twice...? Might want to find something new to compare it to, because black people and Holocaust victims are too edgy for me. It's not relevant because even if it is a person from conception, abortion is largely an issue of self defense in my eyes. I say it's a person when it's born because that is when it becomes it's own entity. Don't pretend birth isn't significant. A black slave is not analogous to a fetus.
I said I wasn't comparing the holocaust to abortion. That doesn't mean I can't compare the logic behind them. The Nazi's orchestrating the murder of millions obviously isn't the same as the choice of a mother to terminate a fetus. Yes people saying abortion is the new holocaust or the new slavery is tiresome and idiotic, but they aren't completely inane. There is logic reason for it. So the violation of bodily autonomy is grounds to kill with impunity? I'm not pretending birth isn't significant, but for the fetus, it is largely a change of physical location, it was viable before birth, so it wasn't dependant.
Comparing abortion to slavery or the holocaust is extremely disrespectful to the people who SUFFERED through the holocaust and slavery. We already told you that it isn't. If the fetus is viable, they will induce labor unless there is something really wrong going on with the pregnancy.
There is no "point". I really hate how the legal systems in most Western nations have to have everything clearly defined, even when the very nature of the subject matter is not, and cannot be clearly put into boxes. There is NO set point where an embryo becomes a person. There is not on/off switch. The creation of life is not binary. We don't go from 0 to 1 in a single instant. Rather, it is gradual. That being said, it does not matter to me because I personally don't think that human life is sacred when we have 7.5+ billion people on this earth. The whole religious/traditional value of "life is sacred" and "be fruitful and multiply" only works when humans are scarce. I kid you not, even if every country had a one-child policy, our population would still be in the billions in 2100.
Never. It becomes a person when it stops being a fetus: at birth.
What's the biological difference between a 9 month, unborn fetus and a newborn?

So biologically nothing? It's merely it's physical location.

Except a 9 month-old fetus isn't dependant.

Not what I said. Not true. Regardless I've seen plenty of people on this subreddit (with plenty of upvotes) advocate for their right to do exactly that.

Seven states have no restrictions regarding post viability abortions. Can you back this up with any data? or is it just something you've heard and assumed true?

So it doesn't depend on the state of development, just when a child is born? If a child is prematurely born at 24 weeks, it is a person, but an unborn at 36 weeks isn't a person?
Since I said it happens at birth, yes, that's the correct conclusion to draw from that.
I agree with Peter Singer's definition of a person as a rational, self-conscious being with a desire to live. This obviously does not apply to a zygote/embryo/foetus or even a baby. http://www.scotsman.com/news/opinion/analysis-why-it-s-irrational-to-risk-women-s-lives-for-the-sake-of-the-unborn-1-2467196 The mirror test shows human self awareness at 15 to 24 months, that would be my approximation of person-hood. Singer also argues that self aware non humans ( chimps, dolphins etc) should be classed as 'people' due to their intelligence I agree with this.
I think the most philosophically consistent metric for deriving personhood rights occurs with sustained normative brain function that occurs at ~25 weeks gestation. https://goo.gl/4jMJcD Medical Controversy – When Does Life Begin? | Brain Blogger Over 98% of abortions are done at or before 20 weeks gestation. Those that are done in late term are done for rape, incest, life of mother and fetal non-viability. It's basically a non-issue at that point given those conditions.

Ugh.  These slut shaming comments never end.  I don't know what people have against women having sex, especially since men who have a lot of sex are considered cool.  I will never understand misogynists. And about the whole birth control thing.  It's a lot cheaper than supporting unwanted children, though a lot of people who make comments like those are also against welfare.  Birth control is a prescription, why shouldn't insurance cover it?  I'm guessing the answer is because "eww sex" or "but my religion".  Also I wonder how many of these people that are against birth control coverage are also against abortion.  Birth control reduces the abortion rate, because if you don't get pregnant you don't need an abortion. The whole thing seems like a a way to control women.  If poor women can't control the number of children they have then they can easily be controlled by men and the government.  It's just mind boggling that this is still an issue, birth control has been proven to be a good thing for society.
It's not necessarily that they have problems with women having sex in general, it's a problem with the idea that women are having sex with someone other than them.  It's the age-old "if I'm not getting it, then no one else should be getting it either" mentality.  Sex (or lack thereof) is at the root of much of the current misogynistic mindset in society today.
Or they don't want to pay for it.
I guarantee you, that fiscally conservative men who are getting laid on a regular basis will tell you no fewer than 100 ways they see their tax dollars being wasted that they care about FAR more than some complete stranger having their birth control covered. It's not about babies and it's not about money. Not even close.
Exactly.  Free, easily accessible birth control and proper sex education are fiscally conservative policies because that means less children being born on welfare and less people in general needing government support, because people in poverty without children will have an easier time getting out of poverty.
So they would rather up the abortion rate and pay more in taxes for welfare for unwanted kids and poor families?  Seems like that would be more expensive than providing birth control and proper sex education.
Plenty of people are fine with you having birth control, they just don't want to pay for it because they are personally against premarital sex. It isn't very expensive either.
I guess the Iraq war shouldn't have been payed for with American tax dollars since some people were personally against war. Or any other war for that matter.  Or the border wall since some people are personally against it.  Or welfare since some people are against that. And on and on because some people will always have a personal objection to everything.  I guess we shouldn't even have to pay taxes since a few people are personally against taxes.  In the end sometimes tax dollars go to things that some people are personally against.  People are going to have sex regardless of other people's religious beliefs, abstinence only states have some of the highest teen pregnancy rates, so birth control might as well be provided to them to prevent unwanted pregnancy and abortion.  It seems like this would be the pro-life thing to do with "pro-lifers" actually want to prevent abortion.  Also people pay for their private insurance theirselves so it shouldn't matter that a few people have some kind of objection to other people having sex for a purpose other than procreation. Honestly birth control is good for society since it lowers the number of unwanted children and abortion. It doesn't make any sense for anti-choicers to be against providing birth control to teens and poor people, because it lowers the abortion rate.  If they're so concerned about abortion they should be all for providing birth control and proper sex education.  Because those things lower the abortion rate, if people don't get pregnant they don't need an abortion.  Anti-choicers being against providing birth control would only make sense if their ultimate goal was to control people and punish them for having sex without wanting to procreate, instead of to lower the abortion rate. Also different forms of birth control cost different amounts.  Some forms of the pill are cheaper than other forms of the pill.  Condoms can break easily, especially if people haven't been given proper sex education, and when they break people are left without any backup protection.  IUDs and Implants can cost you almost a thousand dollars.  And female sterilization can be quite pricy.  These are all preventative prescription medications or surgeries, they shouldn't be difficult to obtain or prohibitively expensive for poor people or teenagers just because a few people think there is something wrong with other people having sex without being punished for it with a baby.
You. I like you
And they protest those things? People do think they shouldn't be paying for those things . Yep. Some people protest against taxes. Doesn't mean they have to accept it. Doesn't mean they can't protest. People are going to buy guns regardless of other people's views on them. So we might as well hand out free guns to everyone. That's fair. If their insurance premiums go up to pay for abortions, that's unfair to them. I agree. They still think it's immoral though, so why should they want to pay for it? The pill isn't expensive, condoms aren't expensive. Don't have sex, don't get abortions. Is the logic. Well yeah. They think it's immoral.
Like I said all forms of birth control are not cheap and some pills can be expensive.  The same form of birth control doesn't work for every woman.  People are not going to stop having sex just because a few people think it is immoral.  Abstinence has never worked and it isn't going to work now.  Their logic is flawed because people are sexual creatures, there have always been abortions and homes for unwed mothers because people have sex.  People aren't just going to not have sex and not have abortions.  But people on birth control are less likely to have to have abortions.  What do they find more immoral abortion or people having sex without punishment?  Because sex education and low cost and easily accessible birth control lowers the abortion and teen pregnancy rate, while abstinence only policies raise it. They can't have it both ways.  It is illogical and hypocritical to be against both legal abortion and providing birth control.  Is sex outside of marriage really considered sinful enough for "pro-lifers" to support policies that lead to more abortions and unwanted children?  It would make sense for the "pro-life" crowd to be in support of providing birth control and sex education if their goal was to have less people getting abortions, but instead it seems they would rather punish people for engaging in an activity that is against their personal religious beliefs.
I mean, I'm a female and I'm against it. Women are aware of the consequences of unprotected sex.. condoms aren't expensive, BC isn't that expensive. If you aren't responsible and financially stable enough to afford birth control, then you shouldn't be having sex. Taxpayers shouldn't have to pay for birth control for poor women with poor impulse control and then probably an abortion later on because they forgot to take the pills correctly. Like, a few years ago I had unprotected sex with my boyfriend and even though it was like 2 am we went to Walgreens to buy the pill. It's all a matter of responsibility, imo. On the flipside, Say a woman can't afford to buy bc. Can't afford an abortion. Has sex. Gets pregnant. Has a child. Gets on welfare, +~$800 for her and $800 for the kid until they're 16=~$1600/m. + food stamps. + medical insurance, maybe section 8/housing. Who pays for all of this? The government, the taxpayers. Yeah, I'm against it. It's in no way the taxpayers responsibly. In a perfect world all women would be responsible enough to have some sort of pregnancy protection if they wanted to have sex. But from a financial point of view in the long run just paying for the damn birth control might actually prove less costly.
Those comments are disturbing. If we're going to talk about sex linked problems, should insurance not cover guys who get injured after being ejected from their cars because they weren't wearing their seatbelts after rolling their cars?
Not to mention that my tax dollars buy Viagra and fucking penis pumps for men on Medicare.
Or any other preventable disease/health problem! So anyone who has heart disease, diabetes, lung cancer, etc, shouldn't get coverage? I can't believe so many people can be so simple minded.
Smokers pay more for insurance though. If you're at risk you pay more.
...where does the other half go?
I'll attempt a translation. This is my guess: federal taxes = the evil government! Trying to control us! state taxes = freedom!
For a second there, I was hoping this would actually be the community of iFunny being decent. Especially considering how reddit is, and how much redditors tend to hate iFunny. But alas. It is no better.
Don't use iFunny. The Alt-Right has a not insignificant power base there.



Couldn't she just put the sign on a stick and walk away? She just is small with a huge sign.


And yet half of them weren't on contraception. You guys are downvoting me like I'm wrong or something.
You're not wrong, about 49% of the people involved didn't use any form of contraception. Which that amount needs to go down imo. Edit: words
That amount should be close to zero in my opinion. If you don't want to get pregnant, and can be on birth control without it having a negative effect on you; you should be on it if you are sexually active.
I agree. Birth control has made a great improvement on my quality of life. No more nausea 24/7 while on my period. No more debilitating cramps. I agree that if a person can, they should be on birth control. I still think abortions should be legal and easily accessible though.
It should be 100% free in my opinion. Or be sold in stores over the counter very cheaply. Here in Australia you need a script for it, and it costs something like 40 per refill. Not too bad overall but it should be a lot better.
Mine is $9 per month, but I know not everyone can take the same that I can (ie the cheap generic stuff). I do wish it was cheaper for everyone and easier to get.
And considering it's free on the NHS
I wonder if that contributes? Like it's free to get an abortion but the pill costs me whatever a script, so I'll just get the abortion.
I doubt it, contraception is completely free you never have to pay for it. The Gov realises how important it is for its citizens to have easily accessible birth control.
The pill is also free. It's exempt from the prescription charge.
But half were and that's the big take away here...that if your regular method of birth control fails you need access to abortive/termination services.
No it isn't the big take away here. They should all be on birth control if it doesn't pose a health risk. Abortion shouldn't be your primary contraceptive choice. Half of these women weren't on birth control and needed access to abortion services.
K but what do you do when your birth control fails
Get an abortion.
See that's the big take away, even when you are on birth control you need access to abortion services.

Dr. Daniel Grossman offers over-the-counter medical abortions as a solution to potentially dangerous self-induced abortions and as a way to help low income women living in abortion deserts.
The people limiting abortions don't care about the woman's safety at all. They would never support this.
No the anti-choicers would never support this because women's safety and lives don't matter to them, but if enough people get behind this it seems like it could be a good solution for a lot of women. A group has recently starting calling for the abortion pill to be put over-the-counter and sold online.  This seems like a great idea for women in conservative states where abortion clinics are being forced to close.  Especially since the women who cannot get to a faraway clinic are turning to dangerous herbal methods and the black market.  Anti-choicers are the reason this is necessary, because they're the ones taking away women's reproductive rights. Though I don't know if this will actually be able to be put in place anytime soon because of Republicans and this shouldn't have to take the place of abortion clinic because they are still necessary.
Yep.  They think if the woman dies, at least she won't be killing anymore fetuses.  Seriously, they look at a woman who wants to abort as a murderer that doesn't deserve to live.
Well yeah cause they care about the safety of the fetus equally.
That is false. They put the fetus above all else and then don't care once it's born.
Well they put the fetus above the mother because it's dying and 99% of the time the mother isn't. When she is they are almost all fine with abortion. As for not caring once they're born that's an economic debate, not a moral one.
Not all of them, I have seen a few comments when discussing women dieing from illegal abortion . That the women deserve it as they ' wanted to kill a baby ' etc
And that is what happens to women when abortion is made illegal or unobtainable, women who can't afford to bribe a doctor or travel to a country or state where it is legal turn to dangerous methods and die from them.  Fortunately some women are able to find the abortion pill online or travel to Mexico where they can get it at a pharmacy so there would never be as many deaths as before Roe, but there would still be a lot of dead women if the anti-abortion crowd ever succeeded in making abortion illegal.  This is why there is starting to be a push for making the abortion pill over-the-counter and selling it online, because access to safe abortions are eroding in many parts of America and women are starting to turn to dangerous and potentially deadly methods to end their pregnancies.  Making abortion illegal doesn't end abortion, it only ends safe abortions.
If abortion was illegal that would start seizing  abortion pills bought online . That's what they do in Ireland https://www.google.co.uk/amp/s/www.irishtimes.com/news/health/number-of-abortion-pills-seized-by-irish-customs-declines-1.3059156%3Fmode%3Damp
True.  Though like the article says some women will always find a way since it is suspected a lot of Irish women just have them shipped in to Northern Ireland and then go pick them up.
Some pro choicers are crazed man hating feminists who want to murder pro lifers. All ideologies have extremists.
And online debate is self selecting for those most passionate about their causes on both sides . We need more middle ground
Is it: use birth control?

What if she doesn't know who the father is?
False title. That's not how the bill works. Seehere

Gee, your profile has some real gems: You seem like someone whose opinion is valued....
ya keep reading those communist magazines that tell you to wear fake up and whore out, those opinions are way more valued cuz the satanists wrote it
This troll account has it all - Commies, whores, Satanists! You name it! One stop shop you've got here buddy
Really? Super cliché to blame the satanists

Those who defund PP will reap what they sow.
Republican votes? Oh, the increases in teen pregnancy. They don't care about that.


This is great.  There need to be more stories like hers shared to help break the taboo, because while abortion is a common occurrence shared by many women, it is usually kept secret and not discussed.

Good. If that keeps them away from harassing women outside the clinic that'd be wonderful.
This made the River City Ransom boss music play in my head.

This is just so sick and infuriating.  It is unbelievable how badly women are treated in some parts of the world, especially in religious countries.  They can't even prove that she had an abortion, only that she had an obstetric emergency.  Not that that they care if it was an accident  or not because to them women are only walking uteruses and if anything happens to the precious embryo they should be imprisoned.  This is what happens when abortion is made illegal, women's personhood is taken away and given to the contents of her uterus, women are made to be nothing more than incubators.  This is the future the anti-choice crowd want for women everywhere.
I think that's a big jump. El Salvador is a tyrannical country. This doesn't happen in developed prolife nations. This is tragic but not very reflected of good prolife laws.
This has already happened in the U.S. and we haven't even completely outlawed abortion. This has already happened in a miscarriage case in my home state of Mississippi. The articles above also mention other "pro-life" Catholic countries, including El Salvador, Mexico and Ecuador, where women are arrested for suspected abortions and miscarriages. A woman in Northern Ireland died a few years ago from septicemia because her miscarrying fetus was valued more than she was A woman in Italy died after being denied an abortion by a Catholic "pro-life" doctor. These are just a few of the women killed by so called "pro-life" laws in so called "pro-life" countries. A suicidal rape victim in Ireland was denied an abortion and held against her will until she was forcibly given a c-section. Edit: Young rape victims, including a 13 year old and a 10 year old, are denied abortions in Mexico. This is exactly what happens in so called "pro-life" countries.  The rights and autonomy of women are stripped from them and given to the contents of their uteruses.  They are arrested and imprisoned for suspected abortions and miscarriages.  They are left to die because the embryo or fetus that is killing them matters more than them.  They are forced to carry pregnancies to term at threat to their life, freedom, and well-being.  And even after being raped they are held against their will in mental institutions and then given forced c-sections because their lives don't matter. This is the future that the so called "pro-life" crowd wants for women everywhere.
Each of these cases the mothers were using drugs (cocaine) during pregnancy and left the baby to die after birth. Savita died of Sepsis poisoning. An abortion was allowed in her case. The doctors were negligent. Although an abortion was legally allowed, an abortion would not have saved her anyway. She needed Antibiotics and they failed to administer them. See here. Please reread the article. It states that an abortion would not have been necessary in Milluzzo’s case because she was already miscarrying. I’m not saying this to be rude but it’s these kinds of things that I think make prolifers not take prochoicers seriously. The articles are very skewed, extremely intellectually dishonest and just sheer fear mongering. The prime example is the last article about the Italian doctor. The mother was already in labour and delivery. She was 36 weeks pregnant. That’s 8 months! How could an abortion help at that point? It’s like prochoicers think abortion is some magical fix to any problem that arises during pregnancy. I seriously don’t get it? Am I missing something because stuff like this really seems to shut down the conversation between the two camps and I don’t think that is a good thing.
Not all of the women listed above were cocaine users who gave birth and left the baby somewhere, though even if they were criminalizing the behavior of pregnant women is atrocious and just leads to more and more women being investigated and imprisoned for miscarriages, stillbirths, accidents, and previous drug addictions. Even in America women have been charged for miscarriages and stillbirths, further taking away the autonomy of women and making them nothing more than incubators that can be punished if their bodies don't do their jobs right.  From the articles above Bei Bei Shaui was arrested in Indiana for attempting suicide while pregnant and had to serve 435 days in prison.  22 year old Christine Taylor of Iowa was arrested and investigated for falling down the stairs while pregnant, though fortunately the prosecutors were not able to charge her and she made national news and was able to highlight the risk of possible imprisonment to pregnant women around the country.  And in Mississippi, 15 year old Rennie Gibbs was arrested after having a stillbirth, while she had used cocaine, cocaine was not proven to be a factor in the stillbirth and doctors believe that the real cause was most likely an umbilical cord wrapped around the neck of the fetus.  Fortunately charges against her were dropped, but only after a 7 year legal battle.  These are just the things that have happened to women in a country where abortion isn't even completely illegal. And in Latin America once again not all of the cases were of cocaine users giving birth and then abandoning the baby.  Glenda Xiomara Cruz, also from El Salvador, had a stillbirth at a local hospital, the only evidence to point to it being intentional was a statement from her abusive partner stating that she caused the stillbirth.  Nevertheless, without any evidence she was sentenced to 10 years in prison.  And in Mexico a judge had to order the release of 7 women convicted of having a spontaneous abortion, one of the women had already spent 8 years in prison for having a miscarriage. Right, the Guardian is biased yet a "pro-life" website named 'savitatruth' is somehow an unbiased news source.  What are you going to do post 'lifenews' next and tell us that they are unbiased. Lol. Savita was not allowed to have an abortion to treat her miscarriage until after the fetal heartbeat stopped, by that time it was too late and the infection had already spread.  She was denied an abortion until after the fetal heartbeat stopped because the doctors said that they were in a "pro-life" country.  You're right, the doctors were negligent, they were negligent because they were in a "pro-life" country.  Because in "pro-life" countries miscarrying fetuses are valued more than women.  Though at least Ireland was forced to change their "pro-life" laws after her death.  In Milluzzo's case she once again died because a "pro-life" doctor refused to perform an abortion and remove the final miscarrying fetus, once again because there was still a fetal heartbeat and its heartbeat was valued over her life. And you conveniently ignored the suicidal rape victim in Ireland who was denied an abortion at 8 weeks and then locked in a mental institution against her will until 25 weeks, at which time she was forcibly given a c-section.  Her human rights and autonomy was stripped from her and she was turned into nothing more than an incubator by the so called "pro-life" country.  You also conveniently ignored the pregnant rape victims of Mexico that were denied abortions, even when they were as young as  13 and 10. I honestly don't see how highlighting the reality of life for women living under "pro-life" laws shuts down conversation.  These are real stories of real women living under real "pro-life" laws around the world, their horrific stories need to be remembered, and these women shouldn't be forgotten in the name of conversation or the "pro-life" agenda.  These are the types of things that happen to women in so called "pro-life" countries around the world, their stories shouldn't be hidden.  The recent case of the woman in El Salvador isn't an isolated incident for women living under "pro-life" governments.  People need to know about the risk of arrest, imprisonment, forced birth, forced institutionalization, and death for women living in "pro-life" countries.  This isn't fear mongering, these are just things that have already happened to women because of real "pro-life" laws.
Attempted suicide would also kill the baby. Investigation is not imprisonment. Seems a lot like using fringe cases for fear mongering. Again fear mongering, She was not charged. And yes, hopefully this case sets the precedence that you don’t use cocaine while you’re pregnant or you may end up on trial for a long time. Again El Salvador is NOT a developed nation which is what we were talking about. I never mentioned the Guardian being biased btw, even though it is. And you can fact check every piece of info on the site I linked to. Every piece of information is factual. Did you bother to fact check? Savita did not need an abortion. She needed early antibiotic intervention. Abortions WERE allowed in Ireland at the time for these cases. She was denied an abortion way before she got sepsis. The problem arised later when the doctors did not do their job properly and missed the fact that she had sepsis. If they hadn’t missed the sepsis, they would have administered antibiotics as the next proper course of action (NOT given an abortion). And then continued to monitor her for next steps. The whole “prolife country” is just fear mongering propaganda. Ireland has HAD one of the highest maternal health rates under their prolife laws. See here. I’ve fact checked for you already since you seem to lazy to do it yourself. Yeah sure, because doctors never make mistakes right. It’s all the prolife laws fault despite the high maternal health rate. Just because you say so. Apparently that’s what you’ve been brainwashed to believe despite evidence to the contrary. They actually didn’t really change much at all. LOL. Seriously are you twelve years old? Do you understand anything about pregnancy and childbirth? You can not perform an abortion on a 36 week old fetus as the mother is labouring. Do you realize what you are saying? Please if you do nothing else explain to me how a doctor would utilize abortion to help the mother in this situation? Because I don’t see how keeping a perfectly healthy woman from killing herself and her child is a bad thing? I say we reserve the killing for the rapist. So when Michelle Carter tells her boyfriend to kill himself she is deemed a monster and charged with manslaughter but, perish the idea that  we stop a mother from killing herself and her child. I don’t consider Mexico a developed country. Because you are highlighting fringe cases mostly happening in underdeveloped, tyrannical countries with corrupt governments and backwards thinking in very biased and misleading ways. These are rare stories that mostly happen in underdeveloped and tyrannical nations. Most of the women don’t even end up in jail and they are usually blown out of proportion. I don’t deny that there are some countries that create prolife legislation that does not work. Usually in countries that already struggling with gender equality and tyrannical governments. But the reality is that developed prolife nations like Ireland and Poland have always had the highest maternal rates, fair justice systems and exceptions for the health/life of the mother. Prolifers know these things. We know that prolife legislation if done properly works very well and keeps both mother and child safe. Highlighting stuff happening in places like El Salvador where there is corrupt government and tyranny does not help your case imo. It’s one thing to have an intellectual conversation that opens doors so that prolifers and prochoicers can understand each other. But this just reeks of either intellectual laziness or complete dishonestly.
Both sides understand each other fine.  You want to take away women's autonomy by any means necessary and give in the contents of her uterus and we want to give women autonomy and choices of what to do with their bodies.
I am a woman. I value you my autonomy just as much as any woman. You want to give woman autonomy over another human being's body. Let's be honest, it's not her body killed during an abortion. Maybe if you ever go through pregnancy, childbirth, perhaps study basic embryology we can have an intellectual discussion. If you are ever interested in an actual open discussion let me know. Cheers!
It's using a woman's body, so it does involve her autonomy.  A grown adult cannot use a woman's body against her will, neither can a fetus. I will not be going through pregnancy or childbirth.  I don't want to have children or to have to go through pregnancy or childbirth, though that is not necessary for me to understand what pregnancy and childbirth is or for me to understand that I am a person with rights to my own body, including my uterus.  It is also no necessary for me to decide what other women can and cannot do with their own bodies, because every woman is different and ever pregnancy is different.
I agree. But you seem unwilling to admit that there are TWO human beings whose autonomy need to be considered. Think about, conjoined twins as an example. They can not kill one another on demand. No it's not necessary for you to experience those things I agree but it does help in understanding the complexities of the debate a bit deeper than you seem willing to go. I mean you can't even seem to grasp the concept that a human fetus is also a human being with rights to his or her own body. And no one is asking you to decide what other women can do with their own bodies. What we are asking is for you to think outside your box and consider whether you would logically and consistently hold to your viewpoint in morally similar situations. I asked you earlier how would an abortion help a mother who is already in labor, given birth to one 36 week old twin and has contracted sepsis and you weren't even able or were unwilling to think about that. This kind of tells me that for whatever reason you haven't really taken the time to truly analyze you position. Maybe you are still young, maybe the fear mongering has made you deathly afraid of pregnancy or maybe you're just afraid to step out of your comfort zone. I'm not sure what it is. And I'm not here to argue. If you have no desire for open discussion then I won't push you. If you are ever ready feel free to message me.

Why do you mention basic embryology , do you think that supports prolife views ?
I mention it because I assume that anyone who thinks an abortion can somehow help a mother who is already laboring with 36 week old twins is missing some basic embryological and biological knowledge. I also think it can support the prolife position depending on ones moral outlook.

I think both sides have a problem with fear mongering and manipulation of facts, have you ever read some prolife sites?
I agree.
This is the best tl;dr I could make, original reduced by 66%. (I'm a bot) Extended Summary | FAQ | Feedback | Top keywords: women#1 Salvador#2 girl#3 abortion#4 law#5
This is heartbreaking.

But... how are they supposed to force others to follow their religion? Sad face for Jesus.
So the article says that the tweets were in fact censored.
Hi,I'm a journalist looking for people who've been to crisis pregnancy centres for counselling in the UK and had negative experiences. My email is sirin.kale@vice.com, please reach out if this is you or anyone you know.Thanks Sirin


I'm not a fan of Rauner, but the fact that he's not a total piece of shit here makes me feel a little less horrible about the future of Illinois.

I still think this is a band aid solution. You shouldn't have to travel that far to get an abortion. I hope this doesn't ease the pressure within Northern Ireland for reform, which is what is actually needed.
I agree but its still a massive step forward for NI women.
If abortion becomes legal in ROI, it may well delay the pressure for legalising and making abortion available in NI. Now the women of NI have access to free abortion by travelling to mainland Britain and will also have access to paid abortion on the island of Ireland. So it will be accessible. I can't see NI getting abortion before ROI and even we're on shaky ground as to when the referendum on the 8th will be and whether it will be successfully repealed or not.
Oh, I didn't know Wales were doing it too. Nice one. Thanks Scotland and Wales and thank you Nicola Sturgeon for personally starting this and carrying out your promise. Great news for the women of Northern Ireland.
This is the best tl;dr I could make, original reduced by 81%. (I'm a bot) Extended Summary | FAQ | Feedback | Top keywords: women#1 government#2 abortion#3 Northern#4 party#5
Wake up fellow pro lifers. How can we be innovative, how can we help women who have unexpected pregnancies? In no way do we change the heart of a woman who has no job and 2 kids already, who is planning to abort unless we put a hand out to help her. We need birth control available, we need wisdom. The murdering of innocence has to stop but what can we do to help?  Child care needs to be cheaper or even free. We need to make it easier to be a parent, not harder. We drive profits up for housing, me me me, while silently millions of babies scream.
What about the woman who either never wants children or is done with the whole procreation thing?  Not all women want to be mothers, and some women, myself included, chose to stop at one child.   If I had ever gotten pregnant again (thankfully that didn't happen), I would have aborted, full stop. Yes, wide access to all methods of birth control would be helpful, as it would prevent many unwanted pregnancies.  But in addition to that, the "pro-life" side needs to accept that every woman has the right to choose abortion if she just doesn't want to be pregnant.  If it's not your pregnancy, it's not your decision.  Period.
So here is the foundational difference between your perspective and mine. I fully believe a woman should have the right to be a mother or not. I however believe all humans born or unborn should have rights. If a woman does not want to pro create again I would encourage her to actively take responsibility to not become pregnant however that looks. I would encourage her to give her precious unborn child a chance at life by finding a couple to adopt. I had a friend last year (with zero income) become pregnant by accident and she went through the adoption process. She met the dreams of a young couple and gave her child a chance at life. I also believe we need foster care reform and child care reform. How is it pro woman to make a woman kill her child to have a career and keep her life? There is something incredibly flawed with the idea that the unborn have no value until they pass through the a vaginal canal. There is also overwhelming proof babies feel everything. Im not sure if you have watched a late term abortion but it is worse than any horror film you could see, because it is real and it is incredibly violent. Why is abortion so shoved down women's throats as an option when it takes a life and for many women it actually causes life long issues. (I could send some articles on that point if you like)  Did you know once you become pregnant that babies  dna stays with you forever? Why would women make this choice for this innocent life that didn't ask to be inside of them? We were all unborn babies once. Also child care needs to be addressed. I always say the feminist movement forgot unborn girls and mothers. Ladies lets break the glass ceiling without killing our young. I challenge the notion that we're promoting women's rights when half of abortions, if not more are killing females. So yes, we see the value of these babies differently.
You value the fetus over the pregnant person, yes we know.
You're sassy. I like you
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16118385 In the third trimester, sure. Good luck finding a doctor who will provide a third trimester abortion unless there's something seriously malformed about the fetus (eg no brain). Abortion at that point is illegal in most countries and states. I'd like to point out there's also overwhelming evidence that women feel everything that happens to them during pregnancy.
Fun fact: abortion is at an all time low in the U.S
I think a good strategy for folks opposed to abortion would be to identify which women would rather not abort if given the resources they need, and those for whom all the resources and offerings in the world aren't going to change their mind. The idea that all woman are willing to continue a pregnancy to term if only they had more money or more help is naive, in my opinion.  Of course finances play a major part in reproductive decisions, but having a child touches on a lot of other things, too.  Rich and well-off women get abortions as well, and it's not because they don't have the means to provide. If the anti-abortion folks are going to continue to focus on pregnant women (rather than helping women avoid pregnancy in the first place), a good starting point would at least be to stop wasting time on people who neither want nor need help for raising a child, and instead work with those who really would love to have a baby if the situation was different (and then be honest about how much help they can provide, because some diapers for the first few years is certainly not the same as financial stability for 18 years!). Also, it bothers me that is has to be said, but no, fetuses are not screaming.  They do not feel pain, they do not have any consciousness or cognition or self-awareness.
Im fine with contraception. Helping women who are poor etc... I agree with all those points. So here is my question regarding pain.. Have you ever watched an abortion video and have you ever been to a neonatal intensive care unit to meet some of the 20 week old babies they save? Have you talked to the medical professionals who save these babies because I sure have. There will always be articles that state babies don't feel pain because it is more comfortable for people who have your belief to see these unborn humans as valid. Im also curious to see if you feel the same about unborn elephants who have protections? Its just interesting to me that you make such statements comfortably. If you haven't talked to medical professionals and watched a video of a baby trying to escape essentially sharp pliers to cut off its leg, then your point is invalid.
In 2005, a systematic multi-disciplinary review of the evidence on fetal pain (reviewing 2,108 articles) was published by The Journal of the American Medical Association.  Their findings were that there is no evidence to suggest the ability for fetuses to feel pain before the third trimester.  You can read this review here. Suffice to say, even if we wanted to discuss the scientific debate over late-term fetal pain, there is consensus over early-term fetal pain: it doesn't exist.  Period.  Only 1.3% of all abortions take place at 21 weeks or later (most of them due to extreme cases like anomalies incompatible with life), and the vast majority (88.8%) take place in the first trimester (source), where everybody agrees that there is no brain structures in place yet to perceive pain. Women seeking abortions due to lack of finances (your original post's main point) are typically not the people having abortions 20 weeks in; if you want to talk about preventing late-term abortions, the focus needs to be on helping abortions take place earlier (since most avoidable delays that push first-trimester abortions into the second trimester, for example, are related to obstacles to early access).
That study has been debunked. http://www.doctorsonfetalpain.com Also that study was tied to many abortion agencies..not shocked...https://mobile.nytimes.com/2005/08/26/health/study-authors-didnt-report-abortion-ties.html?referer= Also 1.3% is equivalent to about 13000 babies annually being brutally murdered. We cant just quote sources from articles from "scientists" with political motivation. I will never support a person aborting their child. At the point a mothers life is at risk is likely the only time it should be a choice. Women should have so many options outside of abortion that it is no longer needed. We need to educate women on what there options are and provide them with more. Also..why is no one talking about this? If your pro choice do you simply ignore this? http://afterabortion.org/2011/abortion-risks-a-list-of-major-psychological-complications-related-to-abortion/
I'm curious- so when exactly do you believe that fetal pain starts? (Also, while women have some options other than rearing their own child, if she's pregnant and doesn't want to remain so, for whatever reason, she most certainly has no option other than abortion.  We're not yet at womb-transfer technology).
So you don't consider adoption an option?Science has proof as early as 8 weeks.
If a woman is pregnant and doesn't want to remain so or undergo labor and delivery, adoption can't help her. And again, just out of curiosity- do you support the right to a 6-week abortion?
Adoption cannot be the only solution. Pregnancy alters your body sooo much. And these aren't arbitrary differences either. Some women have issues holding their bladders after delivery. Some can no longer feel pleasure from sex. You're a hormonal mess for nine months, so some family can adopt a baby even though their are thousands of kids that deserve to be adopted too.  If you have a shitty job, you won't get paid time off for when you're in labor. Some women have abortions because they are in abusive relationships and don't want a child with that person. They can hide an abortion. They can't hide a pregnancy for 40 weeks. There are just so many reasons that adoption cant be the only option
That is almost as ridiculous as believing in God or ghosts or any other supernatural crap. You can't feel pain without the infrastructure for pain transmission and interpretation in place. The only possible mechanism for feeling pain at that point is "magic"
Would  you consider this study by the UKs Royal college of obstetricians and gynaecologists valid ? They say no pain is felt before 24 weeks https://www.newscientist.com/article/dn19089-24-week-fetuses-cannot-feel-pain/

I would love to know who funded by ..these are the stats I find. On neurological development: “Pain receptors appear around the mouth 4 to 5 weeks post-fertilization, followed by the development of nerve fibers, which carry stimuli to the brain. Around 6 six weeks post-fertilization, the unborn child first responds to touch. By 18 weeks post-fertilization, pain receptors have appeared throughout the body.” (2003 medical textbook on maternal, fetal, and neonatal physiology)On early fetal response to painful stimuli: “The earliest reactions to painful stimuli motor reflexes can be detected at 7.5 weeks of gestations [5.5 weeks post-fertilization].” (2012 medical article)On fetal stress responses: “Multiple studies show that ‘the human fetus from 18-20 weeks elaborates pituitary-adrenal, sympatho-adrenal, and circulatory stress responses to physical insults.’” (2013 expert testimony before Congress of Dr. Maureen Condic, Director of Human Embryology instruction for the School of Medicine at the University of Utah)On fetal experience of pain being more intense than in adults: “Mechanisms that inhibit or moderate the experience of pain do not begin to develop until 32 to 34 weeks post-fertilization. Any pain the unborn child experiences before these pain inhibitors are in place is likely more intense than the pain an older infant or adult experiences when subjected to similar types of injury.” (2004 expert testimony before Congress of Dr. Kanwaljeet “Sunny” Anand
Interesting article regarding the different studies that you might enjoy https://mobile.nytimes.com/2013/09/17/health/complex-science-at-issue-in-politics-of-fetal-pain.html
Agreed. But why post this on prochoice instead of the prolife sub? Also, see here and here.
Because there is no real conversation when people only hear one side and stay on it.
Also, I want people to recognize that being pro life should never mean being anti woman. That's gotta change. We should be able to have an honest conversation about what both sides are actually representing.
"Also, I want people to recognize that being pro life should never mean being anti woman." Forcing women to stay pregnant and give birth against their will is as anti-woman as it gets.   And that is precisely what the "pro-life" side wants to do by trying to make abortion illegal and/or making it much harder for low-income and poor women to get. When the PL side stops trying to interfere with women's sexual and reproductive choices, that's when my perception may change.   Until it does, I consider it anti-choice.
Well considering the fact that the woman has sex knowing the possible things that can happen is a point you must consider. It's not anti woman. No one will get anywhere until both sides can agree on the fundamental question: is the fetus human? If it is, then you are tramping over the rights of a human who literally has a say whether HE WANTS TO LIVE or not. If it isn't a human, then go right ahead. I think that you personally should think about that question. I'm not saying this in a condescending way, but I really think there should be more discussion. Pro Lifers are not going against the woman. They are simply going for the other human involved.
"Pro Lifers are not going against the woman." And I think this claim is a lie, no matter how many times it's made.  As I said previously, forcing women who never wanted pregnancy or children in the first place to stay pregnant and give birth against their will is as anti-woman as it gets.  And that's exactly what the anti-choice crowd is doing by trying to make abortion illegal.
I think it's very Orwellian to refer to Pro life as anti choice. Pro life is not against women. Pro life is simply for the child. Now answer my previous question. Is the fetus a human? Why or why not?
But that's exactly what "pro-life" is.  It is definitely anti-choice to force a woman to stay pregnant and give birth by making abortion illegal and/or much harder for low-income or poor women to get.
Well of course the way that you put makes it sound horrible, but it isn't. The stem of their belief is from the idea that the fetus is a human. If the fetus is a human, then it has its own rights, including a right to live. If you killed it, it would be murder. Now please engage me in a real debate. Is it human or not? Stop dodging the question. Answer me and lay out your case.
It is a human fetus. But the rights of a fetus don't outweigh the rights of the person carrying the fetus. Humans have a right to body autonomy, they get to control whether or not they have an entity growing inside them for 40 weeks. If a pregnant woman is struggling for her life, doctors will save the life of the mother first unless otherwise instructed by the mother. And most pro life people make exceptions to their stance on abortions if the mother's life is at risk, if she was raped, or if the fetus was the result of incest. Why would they do that if a fetus is considered a person and has a right to life?

It's human and therefore should have full human rights. In no circumstances do human rights include the right to occupy the body of a non-consenting person.
That is not the question. Of course it's a human, what else would it be...? The question, for me, is: whose life is more important, the fetus or the woman? And the woman wins every time. I see abortion as essentially self defense. Anti choicers say the fetus is more important. And I have never heard a good reason as to why. Side note: sex is no longer primarily for procreation. That argument just doesn't apply anymore.
I have never said that sex was solely for reproduction. No anti choice says that the woman is less important. That is a straw man. As a Pro Lifer, I think that the two lives are equal. The only way I think an abortion is justified is if the mother will die because of it. You don't need answers to that question because no one believes it. If they do, then that's their own problem. I have no interest in disproving assumptions that people make about me.
I fully agree. This is why the typical "pro-life" agenda of trying to shut down clinics like Planned Parenthood is so idiotic - the majority of the services they are providing are contraception, not abortion. No one at all would complain if we someday got to the point where many fewer abortions were being done because there were many fewer unplanned pregnancies. However, the rate of abortion is never going to go to 0 - there will always be awful situations such as rape and fetal anomalies in which abortion is the kindest option for all involved.
The idea is to reroute funding into similar centers that don't provide abortions, so the non abortion services are maintained. (In theory anyway.)
I agree we will likely never stop all abortions, but we need a heart change in this nation toward the unborn. We were all once in our mamas. If we all banned together to help these women, to love and encourage them I feel so many lives would be saved.
"...but we need a heart change in this nation toward the unborn." And that means...what, exactly?  That women who never wanted children to begin with, or who only wanted one child, "should" instantly change their minds because their BC failed for whatever reason?   That definitely wouldn't work for me.  I wonder how that "logic" would fly with childfree women and other "done after one" moms.  My guess; not very well.
I agree we all need a change of heart. We should stop assuming that being born is the what the unborn would choose if they could. I am the result on an unexpected pregnancy and strongly believe my mother should have got an abortion. I would have known nothing about it and she'd have had a better life.
By helping them access abortion. Nothing else solves the problem that her body is being violated in the most fundamental way. What you're suggesting is like saying "oh it's fine for me to rape this person because I'll try my best not to hurt her while I'm doing it and be nice to her afterward." Still not ok.
In the case of life or death of the mother it should be a choice. Otherwise no. Also Ive had labor of a 4 week old baby and a 9 month old baby. They both involve substantial pain. Women cant avoid it either way.  If women dont want to get pregnant they should take action not to. Its a human life not just tissue..
Yeah no, I'm not being used as an incubator and having my bodily autonomy taken away from me for 9 months just because my birth control failed.  Abortion is a lot less painful that pregnancy and childbirth, safer than pregnancy and childbirth, and you don't have to waste 9 months of your life carrying a pregnancy you never wanted to begin with.
Safer for you yep
"Women cant avoid it either way. " If by "it" you mean the pain of labor/childbirth, sure women can.  They can do it first by using reliable birth control to prevent unwanted pregnancy, and if the BC fails for whatever reason, by choosing abortion over labor and birth.  Not all women want to experience the agonies of labor and delivery (for me, once was enough), and childfree (no kids by choice) women have every right not to be forced into it.
Most women i know who had abortions experienced a lot of physical pain.
I think this was meant to be a reply to me? Thanks for the answer.
Also my best friend at 14 had a baby from rape. She kept him and loved him. He is an awesome man today. I feel like we throw life away much to easily.
And there are some rape victims who would have killed themselves if they could not get an abortion. NOT EVERYONE CAN HANDLE PREGNANCY AND CHILDBIRTH.
Thats true and sad. Why dont we empower women to have children instead of telling them to take a life though? As if thats just mentally empowering and healthy? Maybe if these women who experience these horrific events had shoulders to lean on, had love and support and resources they wouldnt feel hopeless.  I know a woman who was raped in the parking lot after giving a pro life speech. She had the baby and gave it up for adoption. Terribly difficult but that is love and that is honoring the fact that the child NEVER gets a choice. Ever.
You want to guilt rape victims into carrying their rapist's child, when that can be even more traumatic than the rape itself. There are some people who, /no matter what resources they have/ would rather die than give birth. It's not empowering to be told what to do with your body. We empower women by letting them know that they have a CHOICE. That woman did what was best for her, which does not apply to every person.
Nope. Very few abortions are done under this circumstance, but since you are making a point of it I want to empower women to do the impossible. Ive walked with a lot of single moms. They are amazing and my heroes. Guilt never motivates anyone, only love. I think it is more traumatizing to add the death of a child to a rape in someones life. Best

Also.. My friend was 14. By all standards we are much stronger than we give ourselves credit for.
You aren't helping your case.
Its very sad the unborn have no value in the eyes of so many feminists. Many who proclaim animal rights etc...
Oh please; it's not "sad" at all.  Not every woman wants children, or marriage either, for that matter.  They have other priorities; having a good education and career, having a safe place to live, which doesn't -- and shouldn't -- have to come with a marriage price tag. The so-called "pro-life" crowd needs to collectively get past the "all women are supposed to get married and have children" mentality, which is more than two centuries old.
The so called pro choice group needs to stop limiting the workforce and womens goals and dreams by telling them they have to kill their baby to achieve their dreams. Pretty much the most anti feminist thing around. Childcare and raising a family, adopting, it should all be easier in this country. But its easier to tell a woman to give up her dreams and kill her baby right?
This is not about value, this is about bodily autonomy. It is torture to force a sentient person to use their body another person against their will.
Actually it is. Do you think you inherently had no value in your mothers womb? I would argue you did. I would have fought for you to have a chance. You cannot say you value yourself on one end and on the other hand say you value an unborn life, which you once were, yet you have no problem killing that unborn life (which could have been you) for your own comfort. You do not value what you are willing to kill for the sake of comfort.
I had value because my mother wanted me. It was her choice to delay her cancer treatments so that she could have me. You said you would have fought for me to be born? Tell me, what would you have done to my mother, if she had decided that it wasn't worth the risk? So that I could have a chance to have crippling depressing and such severe anxiety that I can't even get a job? My mom might not be dying right now if she had never had me. She would be happy, and I would not be miserable. That's just my personal example.
Im so sorry you are miserable. That truly sucks. Ive had severe depression and its no joke. Life is very hard at times, but if I believed I had no purpose I wouldnt be living either..I promise you have a purpose. Im so sorry life has been so hard. I know how dark it can get. I locked myself in a room for 8 months with severe post pardem after a botched csection. I know how dark it can get. There is hope though.
And yet you want to force her to potentially go through postpartum depression and a botched c section if she ever has an unwanted pregnancy.
Oh girl. Haha! If you only knew my full story. How worth it all that crap was for my beautiful daughter! My amazing sweet girl was worth it. Id die for her.
That's just it.  It's YOUR story, and just because you went through difficulties to have a child doesn't mean every woman must do the same.   Some women, for their own personal reasons, don't want to get or stay pregnant, give birth, or be mothers.  They have every right to choose abortion for any reason.  If it isn't your pregnancy, it isn't your decision.  Period.
Your right. Its not my decision..I believe women are better than abortion..when will we validate the rights of the unborn? You seem fine with giving them no choice.
"You seem fine with giving them no choice." I am fine with it.  "The unborn" aren't persons with rights, no matter what you choose to believe.
When they're not using someone's uterus against their will.  The woman has the right to her own body, the fetus has the right to its own body somewhere other than the uterus of a woman that doesn't want to be pregnant.

You are also arguing to give the unborn no choice. You want to force them to be born, with no evidence that's what they'd prefer. Forcing kids into the world with the knowledge that their mother doesn't want them and that they've already caused her immense suffering is cruel to those kids.
You aren't every woman and every woman isn't you.  You do not get to decide what other women do with their bodies and their lives just because you chose to do something or thought something was worth it for you personally.  People are individuals, they aren't all the same as you.
Yes. People born and unborn are individuals. You seem ok with choosing death for the most innocent without their consent..im suggesting labor.
And I'm suggesting that the woman does what she wants with her body because it is her body and she gets to choose what to do with it.  She knows what is best, what works for you doesn't work for everyone else.  If she doesn't want to endure pregnancy complications and postpartum depression, she doesn't have to because she gets to choose.  Hence the term pro-choice.

Don't try to comfort me when you want me to give birth against my will. People like you are part of the reason I want to die.
Are you pregnant now? Im sorry you have had such hardship. I want people to value life and know they are so capable. I condemn no one. Ive seen the severe psychological pain abortion causes. Its so freaking sad all around.
So... are you not aware that it's that guilting, right there, that causes the most of the physiological pain? Just google "post-abortion syndrome myth" and look into it yourself.
Its not a myth. I know women with it. But you can believe what you wish
I didn't say that people never actually regret their abortions, or anything like that. If you're not sure you want to have an abortion, it's actually pretty likely that you'll regret it. It's a huge decision, it really is something that you would want to be sure of before you do it. The thing that I'm talking about is pro-lifers guilting EVERYONE who has ever had an abortion or is considering one, even if it was the right choice for them at the time. It's hard NOT to feel bad with people calling you a "baby-murderer."

Not so much killing, more like removing the embryo or fetus from our uterus.  Women have bodily autonomy, we are not hosts for fetuses, we are living breathing people with hopes and dreams and feelings.  We cannot be forced to use our body to support a living breathing person or even donate blood or an organ for that matter and we certainly cannot be forced to use our body to support a fetus.  We are the only ones with rights to our bodies.  If the fetus wants to go develop somewhere other than my body then whatever, but it will not be developing inside of my body.  I refuse to be pregnant and I see it as torture so no I reserve the right to my body.
Its killing a living breathing person, who would have hopes and dreams but whatever makes you feel more comfortable right? We cannot change that were born female. There seems to be no compassion in you for babies. A baby is a baby 30 seconds before the mother pushes him or her out. Id highly encourage you to visit a neonatal intensive care unit and tell me those babies aren't human. Sorry I don't buy the bullshit that babies are "fetuses" and then magically babies after passing through the vaginal canal. You have believed a lie. Fetus by its very name is unborn human. The only reason abortion has become so widely accepted is because it is a huge money maker for the organizations that perform them. Im so over the argument that a baby is by very nature tissue until its born. What a crock. You deny the anatomy of the unborn baby but validate your own. Its such bs. We can and should honor and respect the unborn. We should honor and respect all humans, not just convenient ones.
I honestly don't feel anything for an embryo . . . because in order to feel sympathy or empathy, the subject of such has to have feelings.  In the early stages of pregnancy, an embryo or fetus doesn't have feelings, doesn't have cognition, doesn't have consciousness or self-awareness.  So I feel the same way about it as I do about an individual spermatazoa, which is that it represents potential, and if given the right ingredients and environment, could develop into something, but right now, I don't feel sorry for it, because it experiences no anger, no sadness, nothing.  Does that make sense?
Ah. I can see why you view abortion as such a probability here. So you likely dont agree that embryos respond and know their mothers voice? Or that they feel or sense stress in the outside world? Science has proven these things. If that is your perspective, then we wont agree. I know what it is not to feel anything for my unborn baby. To feel fear and terror instead of joy, but she is the joy of my life now. Often in life doing the right thing means doing things that are heart breakingly difficult, but the long term reward beats the what ifs every time. A baby is always difficult, but oh so worth it. Blessings to you on your journey. Im sorry we couldnt come to the same conclusion regarding the unborn having purpose and value.
"A baby is always difficult, but oh so worth it." Not for women who never want babies or children it isn't.  Forcing women to stay pregnant and give birth against their will is barbaric, no matter how many anti-choicers claim otherwise.
Exactly . There was a recent AMA on two x with a women who works in Kenya where there is no contraception and the women where having 12 kids, they definetly did not see that 12th baby as 'worth it'  https://m.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid=10154524263823602&id=52989768601&refsrc=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.reddit.com%2Fr%2FTwoXChromosomes%2Fcomments%2F6ihpm4%2Fcomment%2Fdj6vqx5&_rdr
That's horrible.  I wouldn't see being forced to have even a second baby as "worth it," let alone being forced to have 12.
We should provide birth control in all places. Africa needs it more as well. It is a choice to get pregnant 99% of the time here in the US. A baby is a baby born or unborn.

Killing a baby is barbaric.
A fetus isn't a baby.
A fetus isn't a baby, no matter how many times you claim it is one.
In the future, if you're gonna address a post "Fellow pro-lifers", you might do better to post in the Pro-Life forum.  Cheers.
Nah. I dont mind a good conversation in the hopes of saving a life. Wishing you well!
Fetuses cannot hear sound until 18 weeks gestation and do not respond to sound until 25 or 26 weeks gestation, so no an embryo cannot hear or respond to the mother because the embryo stage ends and the fetus stage begins at 8 weeks.  If you're going to lecture us on abortion at least get your information right. link to an article about sound and fetuses
So you assume I didnt know that? I was clarifying what your thoughts were.
You weren't replying to me and you said embryos could hear and respond to sound when they cannot.  That makes it seem like hearing develops 10+ weeks before it actually does.  I was giving the real numbers and stage of pregnancy.

Lol fetuses don't breathe.  If you honestly believe that you're hopeless.  That is one of the reasons viability is where it is, because even with steroids the lungs cannot be properly developed much earlier than 24 weeks gestation and even then there is no guarantee. Abortions have always been a part of society, they were just hidden and dangerous for the woman.  They're not new and they happen everywhere.  They were a common occurrence in the U.S. before Roe v. Wade.  And they're common now even when illegal in places like Poland, Ireland, and North Korea, they're just dangerous for the woman and obtained in secrecy from back alley providers or online pharmacies instead of sterile clinics.  Women who didn't want to be pregnant have always found a way and they will continue to.  The abortion rate has actually lowered significantly in the U.S. because of easily accessible, cheap or free birth control and proper sex education, but the number will never be zero because accidents happen and birth control fails.
So you equate a fetus with a newborn , how do you feel abort embryos?
They are both valid as human. Life starts at conception.
Which is irrelevant to any woman who doesn't want to be pregnant for whatever reason.
Women need to take responsibility for their actions. If they were provided better options than abortion maybe there would be more alive today? But killing is easier than coming up with actively positive solutions to this issue. Its also a great money maker for those who profit off the death of innocence. Women deserve better. They deserve careers. Adoption, better less expensive child care. So over the lie that abortion is the best we can do for women.
"Women need to take responsibility for their actions." Their "actions" meaning...what, exactly?  Having sex, especially if they aren't married? Here's a newsflash for you; sex isn't a crime and women don't have to "take the consequences/responsibility" (ie burden/punishment) of a baby they never wanted in the first place.   Some women simply don't want to stay pregnant, give birth, and be mothers, no matter how much money they have.  And that's perfectly okay, no matter what anti-choicers believe. You're correct on one point; women do deserve better.  We do deserve educations at all levels and good careers with equally good salaries.  Above all, women deserve the right to decide for ourselves as individuals whether to continue a pregnancy or not, and for abortion to remain one of those options for women who don't want to continue a pregnancy.  If it isn't your pregnancy, then it isn't your decision to make.
There it is.  The all so typical women need to take responsibility for their actions.  That statement is just laughable.  It makes me want a child even less than I already do because it just confirms that even anti-choicers view pregnancy and babies as punishments for having sex for enjoyment and that they want to force those punishments on women who don't want them.  It just solidifies my belief that if I ever do become pregnant I will have an abortion because here is an anti-choicer, someone who is supposed to love babies and fetuses over everything else, saying that babies are really a burden and a punishment that women should be forced to take responsibility for. Abortion is taking responsibility for your actions.  If your birth control fails and you don't want to be pregnant you are taking responsibility by having an abortion. Like you said, children are a punishment and a burden that women are forced to have if they choose to have sex so why would choose to have one when there are other options?  It's humorous that you think admitting that you view children as a burden and an unwanted responsibility is going to make women want to have a few and to choose to not have an abortion.  It really has the opposite effect. Women chose abortion long before it made anyone money so it has nothing to do with money and no one said abortion was always the best option for every woman, only that it was an option for women that don't want to be pregnant for whatever reason.  Woman are individuals with individuals circumstances and individual beliefs, we are simply giving her options so she can choose what is best for her and her family.  We're not forcing women to have an abortion, we're telling them that that they are people with autonomy and that they are the ones that get to choose what they are going to do with their body and how many or few children they are going to have.
My opinion is that the Church should help the ones who are already in a rut and gives them love and support. Now what we can do to have less abortions is to teach abstinence and Judeo-Christian values in schools. I know it sounds crazy but hear me out. Yes, of course "real life" happens and people will still get pregnant, but teaching safe sex has been a massive failure. I believe that if we inculcate children with knowledge about how dangerous sex outside of marriage is, then that's the first step. The second step is to tell them the truth: the only way to 100% prevent STDs, unwanted pregnancies, etc. is to stay abstinent until marriage. Teaching children that Alex is valuable will make them value it more. Pro Life does need to change, and it's that we need to take our schools back, and also reach out to those who need it.
Lol really hope this is trolling because if it's not it's laughable.  States with abstinence only policies have the highest teen pregnancy rates in the country. Abstinence only policies do nothing but lead to higher pregnancy rates and more abortions.  While proper sex education and easily access to contraceptives drastically lower the teenage pregnancy rate. Also, childfree people like myself are not just going to remain celibate for life.  And married couples are not going to remain celibate when they don't want a child, some never want a child.  Abstinence and waiting until marriage and only having sex when you want a child doesn't work.  Actual sex education and easily accessible and cheap contraceptives drastically lower the rates of unplanned pregnancies and abortions.  Though the number will never be zero because birth control can fail and not everyone is going to continue an unplanned pregnancy. But if you want to raise the abortion rate the way to do it is by forcing people to remain ignorant of sex education and telling them to wait till marriage to have sex, as if all married couples want children.  It didn't work in the past and it won't work now.
Yes I agree with you. Your statistics about people birthing more babies is way less. Where we disagree is why. There is a major different between people getting pregnant and people giving birth. Another statistic the effects that one is this one. Number of abortions have been increasing over the years.(http://www.nrlc.org/uploads/factsheets/FS01AbortionintheUS.pdf) Now overalls I question how you get your information, because the way that the data is portrayed on the website has a HEAVY left wing bias. I would certainly use a lot of critical thinking while treading there. Anyway, the reason why babies born is less is because abortions are getting higher. It's observable and statistical that the pregnancy rate among kids is way higher than it used to be. Now as for your other points, this is where actual debate comes in. Before even addressing your other points, we have to discuss whether the fetus is human or not. From there further discussion will actually be productive.
The abortion rate in the U.S. is at an all time low. And discussing personhood isn't important, because either way a woman has the right to bodily autonomy.  A living, breathing, fully formed human cannot forcibly use a person's body to sustain theirselves because that person has bodily autonomy and a fetus cannot use a woman's uterus against her will because the woman has bodily autonomy.  The same was a dead person's organs cannot be harvested against their will, because they have bodily autonomy.  A person cannot even be forced to give blood or donate an organ because they have a right to their own body.  Women do not have less rights to their own bodies than dead people, they have the right to bodily autonomy and therefore they can choose what to do with it and who and what gets to use it for what purpose.
That certainly is an interesting point. But. You still failed to acknowledge my previous claim. Discussions is useless and moves no where if we don't discuss whether or not the fetus is human. If it isn't, then yes of course it can be equated with blood, tissue, organs etc. If it is human, then it changes it up. We could then discuss whether or not it is correct.
Like I said, in the end neither possible answer matters because women have bodily autonomy and that isn't changed in either scenario.   Either way one wants to answer the question women still have the right of bodily autonomy and cannot be forced to have their body used by others, whether by a fetus considered a person or not or by anti-choicers that want to force a woman to continue a pregnancy against her will.
So babies have no bodily autonomy? Their bodies dont matter. Hmm. Sounds pretty unfair to me
A person with bodily autonomy doesn't have the right to use another person to survive.  A person cannot forcibly used to support another person, even if that person will die if they don't.  People cannot be forced to donate blood or organs to another person, even if the other person will die without it because the person has bodily autonomy.  Even dead people can only have their organs harvested if they agreed to it before dying.  It doesn't matter if someone will die without the liver or kidney or heart, doctors still can't take organs against the will of a dead person because they have bodily autonomy. Even if you think that a fetus is a person with bodily autonomy, they do not have the right to use another person's body against their will, even if they will die without it because the other person also has bodily autonomy and cannot be forced to use their body to support another person.
Ok but let's assume that the fetus is a human for the sake of argument. Blood, tissue, etc do not have human rights. A human does. Also, if a mother gets pregnant (in most cases), then she knows full well that she can have a child. If she knows that going in, then she is completely responsible for the child if it's created.
Women are still humans with bodily autonomy, humans cannot be forced to have their bodies used against their will to support another human.
"The second step is to tell them the truth: the only way to 100% prevent STDs, unwanted pregnancies, etc. is to stay abstinent until marriage." What about childfree girls/women who NEVER want kids, even if they do want to get married one day?   Or girls/women who choose not to get married or have children?  Are they supposed to remain celibate for life as some kind of faith-based punishment for deciding never to marry or reproduce? IMO your "steps" are a joke, not a "solution."
Tubal ligation. Hysterectomy.
I agree; the tubal ligation is a great solution for childfree women who want them.  The problem for these women, apparently, is finding a doctor willing to do a tubal when they're anywhere from 18 to 30.
Funny since the whole reason we are suppose to be allowed to kill our babies is because it’s our own damn body, but if I want my tubes tied I’m not allowed!
Yep, it's quite a hypocritical stance from the doctors who refuse to perform a tubal ligation procedure on women anywhere from 18 to 30.  Some of them are utterly convinced that "women change their minds," other doctors may have different reasons for refusing.  (I hope some CF women here will share their experiences on the difficulties of finding a doctor to perform a tubal, since I have none in that area.) Either way, many young women who can't get a tubal done because they can't find a doctor willing to do the surgery are the ones at risk for unwanted pregnancy, which could have been prevented.   A woman doesn't need an abortion if a pregnancy is never created.

So she went from being treated like less than human to treating others as less than human. I guess it's true children really do learn what they live. I guess in her case it would be a teenager. Unfortunate on all fronts.

The baby's mother could of ended world hunger but she had to drop out of college because she was denied an abortion .
I think the point is that she could still end world hunger without a college degree but that baby has no chance because he or she is dead and gone.
That baby is easily a month old. Nice pandering.
Would any of these be preferable? To be honest I really don't see much difference.
Seriously, go away. Go troll somewhere else.
Is this suppose to be an intellectual response? I'm giving you visual proof that what you are saying does not make sense. I really don't see how that is trolling or is the idea to simply create an echo chamber? I've been pregnant, given birth and have held many newborn babies. Whether you want to admit it or not the reality is that the picture is not far off at all. Or are you just happy hiding your head in the sand?

Because they're making it seem like it was born five minutes ago?
Sure, but if they changed the caption to an hour/week/month ago isn't the point the same?
/u/erineegads doesn't seem to care about the point. They only seem to want to create a smokescreen.
How many accounts do you have bro 😂
One. Also, do you plan on answering the question that /u/Wehavecrashed asked or just keep evading? Just a side note I am not a bro.
Clearly he read the question and doesn't want to respond to it. Pestering him isn't going to do anything.
"could of" "stomic"
Well, we know Anastasia certainly won't be the one ending world hunger.
Annasteizysha*   ❄ spelling
Could have also been the person who becomes a serial killer, but... Y'know.

This is the best tl;dr I could make, original reduced by 92%. (I'm a bot) Extended Summary | FAQ | Feedback | Top keywords: women#1 abortion#2 Northern#3 MP#4 government#5
This is the best tl;dr I could make, original reduced by 92%. (I'm a bot) Extended Summary | FAQ | Feedback | Top keywords: women#1 abortion#2 Northern#3 MP#4 government#5

If you're going to accuse a group of people of lying, don't lie yourself. Here's some stats from the Guardian. The UK is well behind other countries and still clocks in at 1 deaths per 12,000 live births. Italy is half that, Australia is close after that. These are all countries with abortion, so abortion isn't saving these women. ProLifers are also usually ok with abortion when the life of the mother is in danger. https://www.theguardian.com/news/datablog/2010/apr/12/maternal-mortality-rates-millennium-development-goals Well it actually has a 100% mortality rate, its literally killing a human. There are approximately 200,000 abortions in the UK each year, with 700,000 live births. That means that there is approximately 56 deaths in childbirth every year in the UK. If most abortions were banned, if my numbers are correct, there would be an additional 200,000 lives in the UK each year. I'd say that's "saving lives." Well prochoicers like to demonise pro lifers as misogynistic bible bashers. So maybe call that even?
Lol "saving lives" by killing more women in childbirth when they don't even want to be pregnant to begin with.  Get over it, women aren't incubators and we're not going to die so a pregnancy that we don't want can come to term.  And the U.K. isn't lacking for people so I think they're fine.
Most people are fine with abortion when it will "save the life of the mother" (which is also incredibly rare btw.) In most cases you'll just induce a birth. People still die in childbirth in the rest of the UK, where they can get abortions. Criminalising elective abortion won't kill people, unless the die from complications from a black market abortion. The net number of lives saved will increase if there aren't any abortions. This should be very obvious. So should we go around murdering people randomly to keep the population low?
The death rate for abortion is a lot lower than the rate in childbirth.  Abortion to save the life a woman doesn't help stop unwillingly pregnant women from dying during childbirth because it is already too late. Lives wouldn't be save more living, breathing women would die just to save fetuses which apparently have more value to you than their hosts.  Also yes more women would die from illegal abortions like they did when abortion was illegal, because abortions don't stop when they're illegal, they just kill more women.   But apparently only fetuses matter to anti-choicers. How despicable, my life is less valuable to anti-choicers than an embryo using my uterus against my will. Though on the bright side women still have bodily autonomy in the U.K. so fortunately for them they don't have to live in some anti-choice dystopia where only the precious cargo in their uteruses matter and they can be sacrificed for fetuses they don't want.
Let's do some maths, what's bigger, 200,000 fetuses, or 50 women? Clearly the pro life side saves more lives. How can you even debate this?
While killing living, breathing women in the process because they're so pro life.  Kill actual living, breathing women with personalities and hopes and dreams to save a fetus that has to leach off of a woman to survive.  Forcing women to gestate fetuses against their will when people can't even be forced to use their body to keep another actual living, breathing person alive, so pro-woman.  Forcing women to risk their lives to carry pregnancies that they don't want is taking a woman's personhood away and giving it to a fetus, making a woman nothing more than a host.  The anti-choice crowd want to force women to do things they cannot even force dead bodies to do yet they're somehow pro-life and totally not misogynistic.
Almost everyone is fine with someone getting an abortion if their life is in danger. People die in child birth even with access to abortion. Taking away elective abortion doesn't mean women won't have access to it if their life is in danger. If it's viable it doesn't have to, a fetus is alive as well, and it will almost certainly develop into a person with a personality. 9 months isn't much to a person who is expected to live to 90. Nobody is forcing them to risk their lives. People are fine with abortion in that circumstance. If you think a fetus is nothing more than a paracite then the woman is a host. Because it isn't about women. It's about protecting a human life, if the pregnant person identified as a man they would still be against aboriton.
Women risk their lives in childbirth, that is where most of the deaths come from.  Though you just admitted women are only hosts so apparently they matter less than a fetus anyways so who cares if they die.  It is very much about the woman because it is her body being used against her will and 9 months is plenty of time when you are being forced to be a host to an unwanted pregnancy.  That is a hellish experience that I wish on no one and why I advocate for and try to raise awareness of Women on Web and other groups that deliver the abortion pill to women who have the misfortune of living in places where they are seen as less than autonomous people by their governments.  If the pregnant person identified as a man and wanted an abortion they would still want an abortion and it would still be their right to get one because they would still be the sole owners of their body. The "pro-life" disdain for women is astounding.  We really are seen as secondary to the contents of our uteruses.
56 die annually in the UK each year. That's pretty fucking low. I admitted they are a host of a paracite. If you want to use dehumanizing language so will I. How about they have a similar value? Would you kill yourself if you had to go through 9 months of discomfort? I wouldnt. Again, it's about the victim of the action, not the perpetrator. No you're seen as murdering something.
No I and a lot of other women would just get an abortion if we got pregnant.  Like women have in the past and continue to do today.  Abortion rights aren't going to be completely eliminated in my country anytime soon, though they might get harder to get.  Though fortunately I am not poor so I can travel to a secular, progressive state or country and have a safe, legal abortion if it ever came to that.  I can also travel to Mexico and go to a pharmacy for misoprostol if I had to.  And fortunately poor women can obtain misoprostol online now so even in oppressive countries they have options other than coat hangers and back alleys. Though unfortunately some women have committed suicide over unwanted pregnancies which I can understand because it is more than just a silly little inconvenience and a mild discomfort to a lot of women.  I personally wouldn't do it because I know that I have other options available to me if I ever have the misfortune of getting pregnant.


Good; I applaud this decision.





Surely this is a decision for northern ireland, not anywhere else?

It's not an article it's a petition. And don't be disingenuous. This is about whether NHS hospitals should give residents of Northern Ireland abortions for free. Abortion is illegal in northern Ireland and they probably don't pay for it. I'm for abortion access but this isn't access. This is medical tourism and doesn't fix the underlying problem. If you're poor you still can't afford to travel to England. It should be available for everyone. That means it should be legal in Northern Ireland. If a majority of people in northern Ireland don't want abortions to be legal. Why should they be paying for it or for people to circumvent their laws?

The abortions they want aren't funded though, it requires an increase in funding. Maybe all the people who believe abortion should be legal in Northern Ireland should be donating to this charity? That way it wouldn't matter what the government did. And they'd be paying what they would pay in tax anyway. And that solution still ain't good enough. If you can't travel or take time off work that won't help. In specific circumstances, such as rape, incest or fetal defects. I couldn't find any polls saying that a majority of people in NI supported the legalisation of it. Absolutely it should. Making it free to travel to have one in England isn't the same or good enough. It's a misplaced effort and  it being legal is still a question for the people of NI. Not anyone else.

Decriminalization isn't legalisation dude. Right now the NHS doesn't pay for abortion. The funding would be required to increase to pay for abortions.

If we all killed ourselves the NHS wouldn't have to pay for anything! Yes it's cheaper for the NHS to pay for lots of abortions because then they don't have to pay any money for the healthcare of that person. If you polled northern Irelanders I bet you would find they would want all sorts of restrictions on abortion. Anyway, we will have to wait for the referendum.



I'm a security guard at a planned parenthood, and every day there are obnoxious protesters that yell unkind things at our clients. Sometimes, they bring signs and/or write things on the sidewalk in chalk. I'm not allowed to say anything to the protesters when I'm on duty, but I'm not working here much longer. I plan on coming back after I'm done working here and having peaceful discussion with them. I also would like to leave some sidewalk chalk messages to get them thinking. What should I write?Edit: Thanks for your input, part of my job is to escort anyone who requests it, so I feel good doing that. I think the pro-choice signs would be the most effective, as well. I agree talking to them is a bad idea. I was raised Catholic, so I know how religious people seldom listen to anyone with a differing perspective. They just get under my skin with their dogma and it makes me want to argue. Thanks
Don't engage with the protestors. They are normally set in their ways and would probably enjoy arguing with you. If anything, stand outside of the clinic with a sign that would make patients feel more comfortable, even if your sign/chalk just says "I stand with PP" or "Your choices are valid!"
Those who work at Planned Parenthood are set enough in their thinking that protesters never sway them. The same is true of the protesters; if they are committed enough to spend their time outside the clinic, no conversation will change their minds. But you could certainly donate to the clinic in their honor and let them know about it.
A discussion about abortion should never be about changing someone's mind. It should be about convincing them you're not the devil for thinking differently.
Good comment
As a prolifer I would say that any argument or message that undermines the equal value of the human fetus/preborn child won't fly. I always found the bodily autonomy argument to be the most effective. Many prolifers allow for exceptions that they are not comfortable with because of it.
The thing that would most annoy them is being ignored. Let's face it the prolifers who picket clinics are not undecided on their views , you won't change their minds regarding legality of abortion.
Don't feed the trolls. I escort at a clinic in Charlotte,NC and our protesters are terrible. If you try to talk to them or show any emotional response to what they are saying, the feel empowered and validated. That's what they want. We have volunteers who escort and others hold signs that direct patients into the correct parking lot. Sometimes, mostly Saturday's, they hold snarky signs. My personal favorite (as an atheist) is 'If Mary had had an abortion we wouldn't be in this mess.'  My second favorite is 'If my uterus could shoot bullets it wouldn't need regulating.' At the end of the day, you know what your boundaries are and what is safe at your PP location. Stay safe out there and thank you for your service for women!
No uterus, no opinion
And what about the female protesters?
Just because they'd never want to do it doesn't mean they have any right to intimidate those who do. Or, the alternative, not your uterus, not your choice.
Well in 50% of cases they are destroying the uterus of the female preborn child at least if it's an abortion happening after week 6.  So I'd say you are making a pretty good case for a prolifer with the slogans you seem to have been brainwashed to use.
The point is that the parent's bodily autonomy is not at all superseded by the unwanted bundle of cells that happens to be growing there, not that uteruses are some kind of supremely important organ that must be protected at all costs. If I may ask, why do you believe otherwise? Also, I was hardly brainwashed. That first one is from Rachel Green from Friends!
Calling a fetus an unwanted bundle of cells is stupid. If I leave a baby at the hospital is that an unwanted bundle of cells? The only difference is the stage of development. A parents bodily autonomy is not superseded by a fetus or zygote that is growing in their womb.
Because I believe that all living human beings are equal and deserve basic human rights. The right to life (or the right to not be killed) is an inalienable right and is more fundamental than bodily autonomy. This is why one conjoined twin can not kill the other simply because they are dependent on each other. That being said, I also believe that rights and responsibilities are intertwined. You can not have one without the other. Parental responsibility or duty of care is a moral and legal obligation.
No one obtains the right to live until a woman decides to give birth or chooses to give someone else her body's pregnancy. Women are not tools for society to use nor are women objects for people to take from to ensure people live.
You've stated an opinion. That's fair but not a very good argument.
It's not a fucking opinion, it's a fucking fact. If you try to FORCE a woman to remain pregnant against HER will by ANY means (passing laws to make it illegal for her to abort, for example), then YOU start a war against HER. And if you die in that war, good riddance to a dangerous and deluded threat to all women!
Also not a very good argument. You just make yourself sound violent and unreasonable.

That poster doesn't provide arguments to back up her opinions and ignores any logical reasoning pointing out where her opinion is inconsistent or doesn't make sense. I pointed out that a viable fetus isn't a part of her body in the same way a parasite isn't and she began contradicting herself to the point at which she just ignored me. I also pointed out that if a fetus isn't part of her it is therefore a person with it's own bodily autonomy which can't be violated. Again she ignored me in favour of repeating the sentence that it's part of her and she can decide what happens to it. That one sentence opinion is all you will get out of her. I honestly think she's incredibly resentful of having a womb and resentful towards and fetuses that dare be conceived inside her.
Because a woman remaining pregnant or not is NOT up for debate UNLESS she ALLOWS you to debate HER! YOU DON'T FUCKING DECIDE IF A WOMAN REMAINS PREGNANT OR NOT, SHE DOES! If you TRY to FORCE her to remain pregnant or not against her will by ANY means (passing laws to make it illegal for her to abort, for example), you should be stopped by ANY means necessary, deadly or otherwise! As I said before, END OF DISCUSSION.

I'm thinking this person needs some therapy. I've talked to many prochoicers and they did not display the kind of ignorance and violent demeanor /u/Hikoh is displaying despite our differences. He or she is obviously not interested in a reasonable discussion, only talking at people.

I don't have a uterus but I've been escorting at a Planned Parenthood for the past two years based on my opinion that the only person who has the right to make health care decisions about a woman's body is that woman. Her reason are nobody else's business.
Nice, I agree. But to me that's not exactly about your opinion, you're just helping to facilitate a woman's decision. Which is awesome.

Important clarification (and subtitle)
Yeah, there's a massive difference between being ok with abortions in certain specific circumstances, and being ok with it in general.

Much fashion!
C H O I C E B O Y E
Scooby dooby do!


Also the host encourages everyone to watch the documentary "Vessel" about the beginnings of Women on Waves and Women on Web.  I watched it recently and it honestly brought me to tears.  It was such a heartwarming story about how the founder and her team help less fortunate women in countries without access to safe and legal abortion.
Vessel is a great documentary, I think it's still on Netflix .

Like people who make asinine laws like that one care at all about the well-being of a pregnant woman. Fuck those people.  Abort the pregnancy if she asks for one if you wish to help her AND abort them if they try to submit anyone to their asinine consequences as a result.  Fucking sick of control freaks, they are not the ones pregnant.  They don't have any burden to bear as a result of their fucking sadistic laws.  Waste of human tissue, the lot of 'em!
This is a very powerful article that has the potential to change peoples' stances and increase support for choice. I know, because articles like this one are how I got here. This is exactly the kind of information that I didn't have back when I was firmly and completely opposed to abortion. I honestly didn't know that situations like this existed. I knew that terrible, horrible, unimaginable things could happen in our world, but I'd never been told about specific situations like this one, where abortion was clearly compassionate and morally unproblematic. Conversely, I HAD been told that our loving and all-knowing God would never allow this sort of thing to happen, or that if an "unborn child" was at risk, God would never leave a woman without the strength to continue with the pregnancy and face the consequences and aftermath head-on. I accepted that this meant mothers martyring themselves for their babies based on principle or philosophy. When I got away from the anti-abortion sphere of influence and was exposed to real-life stories of abortion as merciful, medically necessary, and morally unproblematic, my views were dramatically reshaped. It was the ignorance that had made me unreasonable. The people I know who are anti-choice today are still relying on the same lies to support their stance. It's all so completely stupid and shockingly ignorant, but for them and most anti-choice people it has never been a matter of "hating women". I think we pro-choice folks could do a lot more to increase support for choice if we weren't so quick to oversimplify and mischaracterize our opposition. I mean, oversimplification and mischaracterization are exactly why the anti-abortion movement succeeds. The antidotes to ignorance-- facts, truth, reality-- are on our side here. Honestly, being "pro life" is barely about women at all, and that's a huge part of the ignorance! The anti-abortion focus is almost entirely on the false idea of babies being murdered. The women are secondary at best. Articles like this one can change the focus and change peoples' minds.
Because you didn't give a fuck enough to find out everything that can happen to a pregnant woman. Once you give a fuck enough to find out, that's when you understand. Giving a fuck ABOUT A PREGNANT WOMAN is always the key. Fucking assholes who make laws like that one DON'T GIVE A FUCK about pregnant women. How the fuck do they KNOW what ANY god can or would do? A doctor can PROVE what they KNOW, those fucking idiots can't.
Probably because you didn't do enough research. The bill allows for medically necessary D&Es. Pardon my presumption but I don't think you really understand the prolife point of view. The prolife people in your life sound like religious nuts who don't get the crutch of the prolife view. You really ought to learn the secular prolife stance before you allow this bs to persuade you. http://www.secularprolife.org/ And also, you should not characterize all prolifers as resembling the one's you knew. We come in many forms and I haven't met one prolifer or one prolife bill that does not allow abortion in medically necessary situations.
Well this is a pretty misleading article. D&E's would be allowed for medical reasons.


What is going on with the GOP that they keep wanting to equate livestock and women? …is there something we need to know?
For more info, see The Handmaid's Tale, airing on Wednesdays on Hulu.

Until women stop explaining WHY they had an abortion and simply explain WHAT HAPPENED when they did, they will continue to invite other people's judgement of their choice to abort. Fuck other people's judgments. THEY are not the one having to abort or carry MY BODY'S pregnancy. IF other people ever face that situation themselves, I will be happy to share my experience of it to help them make an informed choice, but they can fuck off otherwise.

Why is the fetus more important to you than the woman?
I never said that.
You're certainly acting like the fetus is more important. The woman's life isn't insignificant just because there is a fetus inside her. Her wants and needs come first.
I agree that a woman's life isn't significant just because a fetus inside her, that's why when their life is in danger an abortion is something that is acceptable in that case. But I disagree about their 'wants', because if they want to have an abortion people should recognise that taking another life just to benefit yourself is wrong.
No one should be forced to carry a fetus to term just because of someone else's beliefs. That is just wrong.
Unless they're a rape victim, they weren't forced into being pregnant.
Birth control fails and I am not remaining celibate for the rest of my life just because birth control isn't 100% and you want to punish women for having sex.  Consent to sex isn't consent to pregnancy. I'll do what I like with MY body.
Birth control is 99% if you avoid user failure. And no, I don't want to punish women for having sex. I'm morally fine with abortions if they used birth control.

Well one is being killed, the other is having a cost imposed on them. So of course you value one person getting hurt over the other getting killed.
How do you feel abort mandatory organ or blood donation? That would save many lives.
I think organ donation should be opt-out rather than opt in, and plenty of people already give blood, whilst yes there is a demand, people aren't dying by the thousand because there isn't enough blood to go around. (At least in my country, that's not true everywhere) I would like to see much more community engagement with it, I donate blood and am an organ donor but I'd like it if everyone was. That being said in this case my inaction causes a death, not much actions which would be the case with abortion.
Thanks for responding. Can I ask your view on international laws on abortion? Most OECD nations have legal abortion ( exceptions are Ireland and Poland, but Ireland has announced a referendum for next year) . While prolife countries tend to be less developed nations. Do you think banning abortion will be good for a nation such as the US?
It'd be good for the people who didn't get aborted. For the country as a whole? No it wouldn't be good. It'd result in increased pressure on healthcare, education, crime rates, poverty and others. But you've got to ask yourself, how much further do you want to go? We already violate bodily autonomy to help people, either to protect themselves or others. We could allow full scale eugenics, sterlising people below a certain IQ or with a disability. We don't do things like that because they're wrong. Individuals should also choose not to get abortions because they're wrong and they should be helped to make that choice instead of being forced into it. I know the sort of person you're fighting against, the sort that thinks sex outside of marriage is a sin and should be shameful. I'm not that person.
I am aware that non religious prolifers exist, although they are in the minority. What I am trying to get at is how you wish to create this brave new world where women don't choose to have abortion? Not all women love babies and children or want to experience pregnancy. Personally, no amount of pro-life articles will convince me that a non sentient embryo overrules a women's right to bodily autonomy.
If you could choose getting both physically and mentally tortured or taking a pill that will kill you in your sleep painlessly without you even knowing the difference - which would you choose?
Die painlessly in my sleep, or spend a few months undergoing various bodily stresses with an obvious end in sight? I would choose living through that.
The question wasn't about various bodily stresses. It was about physical and emotional torture. Regardless, would you use the government and the police to force everyone else to make the same decision as you? Like if a cancer patient chooses to die instead of undergoing chemo - do you think that should be illegal because life must be protected by the government at all costs?
That's a personal decision rather than someone deciding for someone else and I don't consider being pregnant torture.
I don't care if you "consider" it torture. Forcing child birth on someone against their will is, by definition, torture. "It's a personal decision" is the whole point. If someone is torturing you, it's a personal decision as to whether or not you want to let them continue to torture you.
I don't care if you consider it torture.

No "person" is killed during an abortion. It is literally a clump of cells.
Well that depends on your definition of personhood. I don't see how you can call a fetus post 24 weeks a clump of cells when its actually viable.
I don't give a fuck why you are pro-life. When I am pregnant, your reasons for you being pro-life don't matter to me. You are not the one pregnant. If you ever tried to force my body to remain pregnant against my will, I would do everything in my power to abort you along with my unwanted pregnancy. My body, my choice.  Not your's.  I am willing to fight to retain my body's sovereignty from you or anyone else, with deadly force.

Your comment about paying for abortions is amusing. I'm not sure where you live, but in America patients pay for their own abortions. Federal money is not allowed to pay for abortions, it's called the Hyde Amendment.
I live in the UK where everyone pays for each others (to simplify) healthcare. Including abortions.
I am in the UK and I indirectly pay money to churches as they are tax exempt, I don't want my contribution going to them but I have to live with it .
I don't think that churches should be tax exempt either. I don't want my contribution going towards abortions as well.
You could write to your MP.
Would you try to physically stop someone if they were going to kill a born person? Like at least call the cops and have them physical stop the murder from happening?
A BORN person isn't fucking ATTACHED to MY body and INSIDE of MY body and actively USING MY body, you idiot. There is no reason to abort it UNLESS it is or TRYING to force MY body to remain pregnant against MY will or threatening MY body in some other way.
Did everyone and their mom misinterpret that comment? It seems obvious that person is making a pro-choice point..
Uh.. calm down. I'm trying to make a pro-choice argument. Try reading before you over react. We're on the same side.
They do. No human being has the right to be attached to another human being's blood stream and usurp their bodily resources and energy and nutrients for themselves against that person's will.
There's no right to kill someone either.
It's called self defense and it's entirely legal to use as defense against torture.
Fine then remove the embryo or fetus and see if it can "live" elsewhere.
There is a right to self defense. Even then, fine, don't kill it, just remove it from the woman's body who isn't consenting to it. It will die immediately, but that's its own problem.
Post 24 weeks it won't and women who want to protect their beauty will still have to have a caesarian.
I would be very interested to know how you would handle falling pregnant while taking effective contraception, knowing you are not in a financially or mentally fit place to raise a child. I don't think you can ever understand the pain and heartache that women go through making that decision.
If I was having sex, I would make sure that contraceptives that don't fail (like a condom) were being used. If I wasn't in a financial state to look after the child, I would seek the father for financial support to help raise the child. If I wasn't in the mental state, I would seek mental health help from a professional such as a therapist. If women can't handle the pain and heartache of deciding whether or not to have an abortion in the first place, the maybe they shouldn't have sex unless they are in the position to handle such situations. No matter how you look at it, women are given a world of options when it comes to contraceptives.
Jesus, women still Fall pregnant using condoms, the pill, IUD. I'm sorry, but how dare you say "women are given options". Just from reading your comments I can see you have no idea what it's like to be in a position where you are CAREFUL and still end up pregnant. If only men could get pregnant it would be a completely different sorry. Just because you have sex does NOT MEAN YOU CONSENT TO A HUMAN GROWING INSIDE YOU!
Then you have to be prepared for the risks associated with having sex. If you're not, then you shouldn't. Not like that matters, because the chance of a woman becoming pregnant on all the contraceptives you just mentioned is such a small amount its almost negligible.
Then I hope you never have sex again.
OK
Do you truly believe an early stage embryo which has not significant brain function is equivalent to a new born or late term foetus? I can understand prolife beliefs concerning late term pregnancies but when the embryo is lentil sized ( six weeks) I cant fathom the reasoning.
My belief is that life starts when there is a heartbeat in the embryo because that is the deciding aspect of whether a human is alive or not. This starts at 5 weeks. Size of the embryo doesn't matter, because at this point it is human and alive.
Why is the heartbeat so important to you, the heart is just a pump after all.
The article OP posted is really a debate within the pro-choice community.  Not so much about the other side and their feelings. Now, if you have some commentary on said article, that'd be cool.
Full disclosure: I'm pro-life, so I never vote or comment on this sub, but this is a really good article. So often it seems to me like the third wave of feminism has come full circle to the point where you aren't really a feminist until you've had that experience of learning to embrace constructed gender roles and stereotypes. Anyway, I don't have a lot to add; I'm just having a "Somebody finally said it!" moment.

I had just found out I was pregnant with twins in January, only weeks before I was in a psych ward due to suicidal urges, which now I think may have been related to unknowingly being flooded with hormones. I was very upset and called a "non political and non judgemental" advice line in my country (Australia). Their website http://www.pregnancycounselling.com.au was one of the first on google and, although sparse, didnt appear to be pro life. Upon calling I ask about this and the woman said they are objective. I tell her I am upset and just found out I am pregnant with twins and she said 'aww' and began talking like this was a good thing. I explained my mental health issues, my use of alcohol, prescription and illicit drugs (suddenly she was judgemental "why would you do that to yourself?"). She suggests adoption and I say I think I may have damaged them and she said "So youre not even going to give them a chance?". Thats when I hung up. That sentence was the last thing I needed to hear, I was so angry and am angry for all the australian women conned into seeking support from such a bullshit christian pro life masquerade of a helpline. I tried finding an ombudsman or authority to complain to but couldn't find anything.
I always get a little iffy when a website says to call them if you are thinking if abortion. :-/ Sorry they gave you such a terrible experience.

Thank you! Was it the same line? I feel like it was dishonest/false advertising. Surely its wrong? What got me is "give them a chance" as though I wish I couldnt! I was in such a fucked position and would never live down the guilt if my actions has inadvertently cause disability or issues.
This kind of guilt-peddling is typical of the notorious "crisis pregnancy centers," and there are plenty of them in the United States too.   Staff members who work at these places have no problem lying in order to get women to call them. I'm so sorry you had a bad time with this person, but at  least you stopped this staffer's tactics by hanging up.
Unfortunately, you can't really complain to anyone about the helpline, since you called it willingly. What they're doing is totally unethical in my opinion, but is still completely legal.
So shady though. And to vulnerable women.
Oh, I fully agree. I'm not really sure why I'm getting downvotes just for stating that this practice is unfortunately still technically legal.
Not from me x

But their abortions are different.
Definitely.
Yep, their abortions are "moral," it's only those from non-Christians or non-Evangelicals that aren't./s
The only moral abortion is my abortion.

of course it's a war.  anytime you try to force your beliefs on another, war is inevitable.  these fuckers better hope they good with their "god", cuz people like me have no issues blowing them away when they try to enslave me or anyone I love to their beliefs!
That sounds really violent and enticing violence. Surprised the mods haven't deleted this.
Enticing?  I was only saying what I would do IF they tried anything on me or my loved ones.  If they don't try anything, then I won't retaliate.
I'm sorry but I am so confused about what you think they will do that would warrant you to blow them away? Anger and violence begets anger and violence.
Forcing women to remain pregnant against their will.
So are you planning on blowing away all the political leaders of the many countries with prolife legislation or do you mean only if prolife legislation is enacted in your country?
Only if they fuck with me or my loved ones.  They bring war to me, they will get war from me.
Alright buddy, you are a strangely angry person. Try not to hurt anyone.


I wish journalists would do more to expose religious affiliated hospitals who accept Medicaid money for childbirth but refuse to perform tubal ligation and vasectomies.





I see no problems move abortions to hospitals where they are federally mandated until they hand their autonomy to the  federal government and stop existing as a private organization they have no right to public funds and should close down and be replaced by public hospitals

Where pro-life just becomes anti-sex. No doesn't matter that you kept the baby, you screwed up by getting pregnant in the first place and then you're punished further for keeping the baby. That doesn't make any sense! If you want people to feel free to choose life, support them! She should have been praised at graduation by a pro-life school, not banned from it.
It just goes to show they aren't pro life. They're anti women.
Pro birthers.
If the pro-life movement wanted any credibility what so ever, they should condemn this.
Yup, pro-lifers did condemn this. http://studentsforlife.org/autumns-response-to-maddi-i-support-you-100/ Students for Life ran a pretty large campaign in support of Maddi.
It's great that students condemned it, but the real question is why did a pro-life school treat her this way in the first place?

I think the author is a bit deceptive here. Ignoring her many suspect claims themselves she seems to want us to believe that the term prolife is an umbrella term. The truth is that prolife means that one is against legal abortion and prochoice means that one is in favour of legal abortion. Plus or minus small exceptions. I feel like her article is liken to a prolifer claiming that a person who is prochoice must vote for complete anarchy so as not to take away anyone's choices. The whole thing just seems dishonest and nonsensical to me anyway.
Agreed.  Look, as someone who supports the right to abortion, I get the anger- it sucks that one side got the sunny awesome-sounding name that subtly suggests any opponents are "pro-death".  It's anger-inducing- you want to take 'em to task and point out hypocrisy (real or perceived) in the moniker.  But the simple fact is that "pro-life" just means "opposes abortion and/or abortion rights".  Just like "pro-choice" means "supports the choice and right to abortion".  Yes, I'd like to see more neutral terms to describe us both without the heavy emotional weight of their connotations.  But in the meantime, it is what it is. I'm reminded of that quote from Joan Chittister that a lot of pro-choicers for some reason like to trot out, about how opposing abortion without supporting X, Y, and Z causes (poverty, education, housing, etc.), is not pro-life.  It always riles me up, because, taken to its logical conclusion (as far as I can see it), is that I should be happy with a very progressive and liberal socialist who opposes abortion while simultaneously demanding good quality of life for all . . . as if the problem is the hypocrisy or narrow fetal focus, rather than, ya know, the fact that they want to criminalize and stigmatize abortion.
Sounds like you get it. Happy we can find some common ground. You mean who support abortion right?
No, I meant opposes.  Like, it's not entirely clear from the quote alone if Joan Chittister supports criminalizing abortion, but assuming she does, all her "you're not pro-life, you're pro-birth" rhetoric thrown at fellow anti-abortion folks doesn't matter one iota to me.  Being logically consistent is pleasing, for sure, but it can't trump the horror (to me) of supporting abortion criminalization.
Oh. Got it. Just re read it. Curious what you'd like the names to be? I think anti abortion rights and for abortion rights are more clear.
It gets a little iffy because sometimes people conflate or separate morality and legality (i.e. the whole "I am against abortion but everybody should be able to decide for themselves" thing), but overall, since access is more impactful than cultural attitudes, I agree that it should be something similar to "pro-abortion rights" and "anti-abortion rights". I've heard some interesting arguments that state that being labeled "anti" automatically puts a group at a disadvantage (hence why they like the "pro" of "pro-life"), but while food for thought, I don't know how one would get around it (not to mention that plenty of movements, like anti-war movements, seem fine being prefaced by "anti").
I've heard that too and considered it. I guess that's why both camps have pro at the forefront of their names. I guess on the other side a prolifer might want to change the terms to pro right to life for preborn humans and anti right to life for preborn humans. I think we can both agree these names would be way to long. Personally I'm fine with being called anti abortion rights. I think adding the word rights demonstrates that we are discussing law and not morality. To be honest, I think we easily take the cake when it comes to discussing morality. It's the legality that gets a bit messy. :) Just my opinion anyway.
I daresay on most topics people feel passionately about, they believe they have the moral high-ground (myself included!).  But yes, it's a lot easier- and more practical- to discuss legality, as it both deals in the here-and-now, and there's less chance of getting bogged down in religion, personal beliefs, etc. that are at least somewhat subjective.
True enough. Sure. I agree. After all, I am sure that we all agree that there are things that are immoral but ought to remain legal. Although I find that in criminal law pretty much everything that is illegal is unethical or immoral in some way.
https://youtu.be/UM1Pz5BrG4EThis is going to follow under the old adage .... protect your ass through paperwork.  The video goes into greater details but this is the bullet points.Keep track of any emails that you may get that put into question your duties or abilities to do those duties because of your new found status.Any negative remark dealing with your pregnancy , does count as sexual harassment.  If you are getting these verbally instead of written track them down in your job journal  ( we have talked about that before here ! )If you think you are being let go , or already fired. Get a lawyer, these type of cases are time sensitive.  You will need to contact your local EEOC branch ( if in the u.s. ) , and get a "permission slip" to sue your company. If you present solid enough evidence the government will sue the company for you.

Religious influence was "significantly at play" in the case of a pregnant asylum seeker who was denied an abortion in Ireland even though she was suicidal, her solicitor has claimed. Medical records suggest that the woman known as Ms Y was questioned while in hospital about her religious beliefs and asked whether her baby "deserved a life" as doctors considered whether to terminate her pregnancy. Caoimhe Haughey, Ms Y's solicitor, claimed that, in her opinion, this amounted to religious influence. "There is no doubt in my mind that religious influences and interference were significantly at play, given the fact that my client had her own religious belief, given the fact that her own religious belief was mentioned to her in a way that, in my opinion, was done with a view to make her feel guilty and ashamed," she said. "She was told that the baby only needed her until it was born. And what is clear to me is that they were delaying carrying out any procedure on my client, notwithstanding promises to the contrary, in order to improve the viability situation for the baby." The Health Service Executive (HSE) said it had no knowledge of the allegations and it appeared they had not been raised previously. A HSE review of the case was abandoned following a legal challenge by Ms Y. It is understood that an independent review of the legal approach taken in the case has been completed. Ms Haughey made a submission on Ms Y's case to the Citizens' Assembly, which last weekend recommended allowing abortion in a range of circumstances. Her case provoked national debate on Ireland's new abortion laws when it became public in 2014. The young woman discovered she was pregnant weeks after arriving in Ireland in March of that year. She said she had been raped in her home country and sought an abortion. She was alone and spoke no English and attempted suicide. Despite interaction with various agencies, she was 22 weeks' pregnant when she was referred for assessment for a termination on grounds of suicide. She repeatedly requested an abortion but was ultimately told her pregnancy was too advanced. Her baby was delivered prematurely by caesarean and is in State care. The case highlighted the legal anomaly doctors faced in balancing the Protection of Life during Pregnancy Act with the constitutional requirement of protecting the life of the unborn where "practicable". Contemporaneous medical records noted how doctors "hoped to maintain the patient on the ward" until the foetus was viable. Another record said: "We will have to make her an involuntary patient and keep her against her will." A clinical decision had been made to remove the baby by caesarean when lawyers became involved, the records show. The medical records disclose that Ms Y was asked if she wanted to see a priest, which she declined. On another occasion, she was asked: "Do you think the baby deserves a life?" The notes also record how she was told by a doctor that the "abortion would not take the rape away". Ms Y continues to suffer trauma as a result of her experiences around the birth of her baby, according to her statement of claim. She has suffered "very significant and permanent psychiatric injuries" as a result of being "denied a termination" and "coerced into prolonging her pregnancy". She has "continuing dreams about her baby which cause her to wake up". The woman is suing the Health Service Executive and 10 other agencies on several grounds, including alleged negligence, breach of duty and false imprisonment. Ms Haughey said she made a submission on her client's case to the Citizens' Assembly because she believes the Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act "does not work". "It is not workable to put a subjective decision into the hands of three individuals, two psychiatrists and one obstetrician who differ from case to case," she said. "It is an impossible position to put doctors in."

wasting taxpayer money on cultural warfare again eh Texas?

Greetings!I am very excited and interested to hear your discussion on this topic.I have often seen the prolife community ask the prochoice community, why don't you just place the child for adoption instead of having an abortion? Is adoption truly seen as a viable option, or just an empty suggestion that is not possible with circumstances?Disclaimer: I have also seen some people in the prochoice community confuse the foster care system with the private adoption system. I am seeking discussion that understands the difference, and/or can point to how the current state of the foster care system actually influences the decision to abort...without confusing the nature of foster care.Please tell me your opinions and stories.
The issue is no woman should be forced to give up 9 months of her life to carry a child she does not desire. Especially having to go through labor and birth itself. I think adoption remains a viable option if a woman so desires it, but I also think adoption does not represent a life we should surrender a child to if necessary. The statistics and real life outcomes of children in those situations are not great.
Adoption resolves the issue of an unwanted CHILD, NOT a PREGNANCY. Two different issues.
What do you think or how do you respond, when prolife people say that you shouldn't "evade your responsibility" in that you "chose the act that caused the pregnancy", so you shouldn't "skirt your responsibilities" and abort? Edit: Downvotes? She responded to my post, and I asked her a legitimate question regarding what she would say to that prolife response. That is what this post is about. She certainly wasn't offended by the question when she responded. Wtf
I (not original commenter) would say that getting an abortion is taking responsibility. There is a really good essay by a nurse who worked in an abortion clinic, and it deeply changed her views on women who chose to abort (she was raised Catholic). She had been told her whole life how women who chose to abort were taking the easy way out, but once she saw them and heard their stories, she understood how difficult of a choice it was for many, and that there's nothing easy about it. Also, consenting to sex isn't consenting to a pregnancy. Just like crossing the street isn't consenting to being hit by a car. You know when you cross a street that there is the chance that you could be hit by a car, and that ultimately streets are made for the purpose of driving. But if you get hit, you won't be denied life-saving treatment because "you chose the act that you knew could lead to this outcome"
This is the article
I don't debate anymore, but I would say that abortion IS taking responsibility, whether they like it or not.
Personally, I point out to those people that getting an abortion is the way I would take responsibility for an accidental pregnancy. Is it really more responsible to keep a baby you never wanted? One you probably can't afford? Or is it more responsible to pawn it off on someone else? I say it's best to just not bring it into the world at all. I usually also point out that consent to sex is not consent to having a child or going through a pregnancy. And that even if I consented to pregnancy I can revoke that consent.
Many women didn't choose that, they were raped. So is it okay for women who were raped to abort? But then what's the difference? It's either okay or not okay to kill a fetus and whether or not a woman consented to sex doesn't change the morality of killing a fetus.

Uh, yeah, okay. I was talking about abortion morality, not you.
I would respond to that kind of "pro-life" comment by saying it isn't their decision to make unless it's their pregnancy.  Also, I would tell them that consent to have sex doesn't mean consent to pregnancy and birth.  It's all that's necessary to say IMO, and I wouldn't continue the discussion further after making those two points.  What they think I or any other woman "should" or "shouldn't" do is irrelevant, at least to me.
I understand that. Thanks for sharing!
Unwanted children are still children. There is a transcendence to this which means people's choices are limited. Children deserve care from both mother and father
You didn't refute what I said. Adoption resolves a completely different issue than abortion does. One involves a child, the other involves a potential child.
At the end of the day, if you restrict abortion at any stage of development, you are effectively telling pregnant women that their "responsibility" of being a human incubator overrides their rights as individuals. As a result you are stripping away a women's rights to her own body and prioritizing the potential of a fully developed human life over an already existing one. Most pro-choice people would prefer not to end a potential human life, and abortion is a hard decision for most people. I'm certain most pro-choice people would be in favor of saving the life regardless of the stage of development if medical science were there (allowing the body to develop in an artificial incubator), and assuming the infrastructure existed to care for said lives (adoption for every new born whose parents did not want children). However, just because these things aren't a reality (yet), and abortion is an unsavory topic, doesn't mean women should have to forfeit the rights to their own bodies because of other people's moral hang ups.
Most simply, adoption is an alternative to parenting, not to pregnancy.
I am going to ask you the same question that I asked the other person who said the same thing: What do you think or how do you respond, when prolife people say that you shouldn't "evade your responsibility" in that you "chose the act that caused the pregnancy", so you shouldn't "skirt your responsibilities" and abort?
I have a few responses.  First of all, lots of sex happens without a resulting pregnancy.  Lots of people have sex for pleasure.  So I don't buy it that sex should equal baby as a natural consequence. Secondly, let's talk about consent.  Consent is not transferable.  If I consent to sex, I am not necessarily consenting to an entire pregnancy.  I am consenting to the risk of pregnancy (and hopefully if I don't want to get pregnant, doing what I can to avoid that).  But I have a solution if I do get pregnant that is not giving birth. So, for example, let's say I consent to drive a car.  I am consenting to the risk of getting injured in a car accident.  Very few people would argue that if I did get in an accident I shouldn't be allowed to access healthcare for it.  Yes, I consented to the risk, but that doesn't mean I need to suffer needlessly.  This is true even if I opted not to wear my seat belt or drive drunk or any other scenario wherein the risk was higher that I might be injured.  Consent to one activity (sex, car driving) is not consent to another activity (pregnancy to term, suffering from injuries) even if the first activity has the second as a known risk. Third, consent can be withdrawn.  Even if I intended to get pregnant, circumstances might have changed such that I no longer consent to having that fetus inside of me.  For example, I lost my job, I lost my partner, my partner turned abusive, I found out the fetus has conditions incompatible with life, etc etc.  So even if I initially choose to become pregnant, my consent at an earlier timepoint does not obligate me to continue an activity.  Sex is a good example of that.  If I consent to sex and then get a leg cramp or decide I'm not in the mood or whatever and withdraw my consent, my partner must stop.  My prior consent does not give them access to my body once my consent has been withdrawn. It's not about responsibilities, it's about consent.  I don't have a responsibility to any other person to keep them alive with my body without my consent.  It doesn't matter how I'm related to them or if I caused their need for my body, I'm not obligated to them.  If I drove drunk with my kid in the car and got in an accident that caused them to need a blood transfusion, I would not be obligated to donate blood.  They're my child, they are going to die without accessing my body, and it's my fault that they're in that condition, but I am not obligated to give up my body for them.  Legally at least.  Morally, maybe, but the laws protect my bodily autonomy just like they do a pregnant woman's. Additionally, I'll agree with the other poster that if a woman gets an abortion it's probably the most responsible decision she could be making.  I trust women.  I trust women to compare all their options, assess their particular situation and capabilities, and make a decision (with the help of their doctor) as to what is the safest, most responsible decision for them.  Sure, as with anything, there are people who might fail at that.  But as a society we usually agree that individuals are generally better at making their own decisions than the state is.  I see no reason why we should second guess pregnant women's ability to adult any more than any other group. Concisely: I don't think that a responsibility exists to give birth to a fetus just because you're its mother , I don't think that consenting to sex is an automatic consent to a full term pregnancy, and I think we should trust pregnant women to be responsible with their choices as much as we do any other group.
A wild /u/justcurious12345 appeared. S/he tried "ridicule the argument until it goes away." It is not very effective. 1/ car accidents aren't comparable because crashing a car is not the natural result of driving: getting from point A to point B is. In the same way getting from point A to point B is the natural result of driving a car, conceiving a child is the natural result of pregnancy. Contracting an STD is more comparable to a car accident then pregnancy, IMO. 2/  your second paragraph about consent being withdrawn during pregnancy makes no sense. A being has already been created due to your actions; and you can no longer withdraw your consent because it is no longer YOUR BODY you are withdrawing consent on- you are simply quoting some stuff the pro-choice agenda tells you to boost your own ideas. 3/ On consent and sex - when two people consent to sex, they are agreeing/ consenting that it may result in the creation of another being - and not just another being, one that is fully bodily dependent upon them. When a person chooses to act a certain way knowing a risk(and I hate using the word risk because as I stated previously, pregnancy is just the natural end of sex regardless of the intention)may fall through, they are responsible for the result.  And being responsible for the result matters a lot in this context. 4/ I'd like to see you use this logic when it's your child living in their parents home. I'm pretty sure if you throw them out and they died you would be charged. It's called parental responsibility laws. 5/ And in this case, being responsible means not killing a human being to relinquish that responsibility. Abortion is used as a ticket out of responsibility; 98% of abortions are due to convenience and not rape or life of the mother. That's not taking responsibility for your actions; it's hiding from responsibility. We don't always take individuals' decisions to be the best. There are suicide watches and psych wards because we don't consider individuals suffering from suicidal or psychotic thoughts/behaviour to be capable of making such a life-changing decision. Drug prescriptions exist because patients are not fully capable of choosing whatever medicine they wish to take simply because they have bodily autonomy; they need a doctor's consent and a prescription so that they don't accidentally kill themselves. We have anti-rape laws because we don't believe a rapist should have the bodily autonomy to infringe upon another's body just because the rapist has bodily autonomy. We put limits on bodily autonomy sometimes because they infringe upon another person's bodily autonomy. I could go on about this, but I think I've made my point. /u/socialworker80
Wow, our discussion had been very civil.  I'm shocked by the change in your tone. Appeal to nature, eh?  Even if I were to agree that pregnancy is the natural result of sex, so what?  Why is a "natural result" better than an "unnatural result"?  The natural result of the plague is death.  Should we withhold antibiotics to people who get infected?  I doubt you'd find many people who'd say yes. Setting that aside, I disagree that pregnancy is the natural result of sex.  Most sex does not result in pregnancy.  Here's a source that says the average couple has sex once a week.  A woman is only fertile for 48 hours of her cycle, so at most, 1 in 4 sex acts happen when the woman is fertile.  It's possible that they miss the window all together!  Let's say, though, that in this case they do.  Only 50% of fertilized eggs implant!.  So now we're down to 1 in 8 sexual interactions between a couple that actually results in pregnancy. That is, a heterosexual couple.  Which eliminates about 4% of the population.  A fertile, hetero couple.  12% of couples have fertility issues.  And let's not forget about age.  Of people over 18, only 48% are below 45.  So the majority of people having sex are infertile due to gender, biology, or age.  The fertile ones having sex only get pregnant at most 12.5% of the times they have sex.  And of course once pregnant there's nine months of sex that doesn't result in more pregnancy. So, no, pregnancy is not the natural outcome of having sex, or even really all that likely for any given sexual encounter, even in the absence of contraception. If I say "Sorry fetus, you don't have my consent to inhabit my uterus" how is that not my body that I'm in charge of?  Why does the existence of that fetus mean I can no longer choose who has access to my body? Agreed.  However, no one is consenting to allow that being to live inside of them for as long as it needs.  Yes, if a person chooses to have sex and gets pregnant, they are responsible for dealing with the result.  Such as, by having an abortion. I have a baby.  If I no longer wanted to be responsible for her, I could give her to a multitude of other people.  I can delegate my parental responsibility or sign away my rights and let someone else have them.  Many other adults in her life could keep her safe, healthy, fed, etc.  How do you suggest that a pregnant woman does that?  There is no way for her to keep the fetus alive except by allowing it to live in and consume her body.  It is not ethical or legal to force this violation on her without her consent. While this may be your opinion, you do not get to make that decision for anyone but yourself (thank god). Sure, there are times when people are mentally ill and aren't capable of making healthy decisions.  Are you suggesting that being a pregnant woman = a mental illness? Two things- it's also about education.  A non-doctor doesn't have the education they need to safely decide what medicine they should have.  Do you think women are in some way ignorant about pregnancy or childbirth and should be disqualified from deciding about their own abortions? Secondly, a woman doesn't get a legal abortion without the help of a doctor.  As I said, I trust women to make this decision with their doctors.  It's a medical procedure, it's reasonable to have doctors involved.  So your "patients talk to doctors to access medicine" point is null- so do pregnant women. In the case of pregnancy, the fetus is the one violating its mother's bodily autonomy.  Do you think a woman should have to tolerate a rapist and not fight back to avoid violating the rapist's autonomy?  Abortion is a reaction to a violation.  If a fetus could live outside of its mother, I would not argue that she had a right to kill it just because it's her fetus. If your point is to look foolish, then sure.
Firstly, I apologize if I offended you, I was not trying to be condescending. Secondly, no one is trying to kill human beings by attempting to become pregnant. You argument is like saying that because so many people die in car wrecks then that makes it OK for me to intentionally kill people using my car. We're not talking about the same thing. Let's say that it's true that natural conception and abortion are equivalent in terms of the suffering they cause. That does not justify abortion nor does it establish that natural conception is immoral. I would argue that it certainly is the natural way, as humans(and our less evolved counterparts) have been having sex for millennia, even more, and if it were not the natural way we would not be there. But - even if you do not accept that sex naturally leads to conception, what matters is foreknowledge. So whether an event is normal or not, if a person knows they are risking the occurrence of that event, and they freely choose to act and take those risks, they are responsible for the result. End of story. Because you made the choice that resulted in the fetus's conception, and it is the fetus you are killing in order to maintain "bodily autonomy". That would be like dragging a person into my house and killing the person, even though it was my actions that caused the person to be there. You are still forcing the mother to use her body for a short amount of time until she can give the child in question to a third party. Inconsistency. So until such a time when we have artificial wombs, we, as a society, simply must kill our youngest children? There is no other choice for us? We can't support mothers and fathers so that raising children is easier? We can't make adoption easier and less stigmatized and traumatic by increasing awareness and making open adoptions more common? We are so helpless to do any of these thing that we must kill? I could say the same thing to you about abortion being a responsibility. You did not provide anything to prove me wrong. I am suggesting that a pregnant woman who wants to kill her offspring as a result of her own actions leading to the conception of her offspring is mentally ill, yes. Would you not say the same to a woman who wants to kill her born offspring? Yes, that is what I am saying. My mother had a doctor to give her prenatal care instructions because even though she had been pregnant before, she did not have the proper knowledge and care for her pregnancy. I do not see how a pregnant woman who wants to abort her child is any different. Sorry, my statement was not very well written. Just an analogy. My point was bodily autonomy is not fully granted in those situations because it could cause harm. And although I disagree with abortion, assisted via abortionist or not, why do you think abortion is overseen by a doctor? I thought the whole prochoice argument for illegalising abortion was because women would be having abortions in back alleys and such. One of the reasons a fetus is not classified as a parasite is because it never at any point in time came from the outside and invaded the mother; it was concieved inside her body, (99% of the time as a result of her own choice.) TBH the rape situation makes such a small percentage of abortions it has become a strawman to avert the usual argument(is abortion immoral). How does this argument affect the morality of abortion? I believe an exception should be made for life of the mother. That being said, the life of the mother makes up such a small percentage it is not worth talking about in the grand lense of abortion. You may be wondering why I don't advocate the same for rape victims, well my answer is that the child concieved is not at fault for the crime, and rape victims report increased trauma after abortions,see here and here. I believe there should be more support available for rape victims of both genders, but killing an innocent child does not solve anything. On pregnancy/bodily autonomy violation and rape: I would say that is quite different from being quite literally forced to have unwilling sex and undergo a painful bodily invasion from the outside. You are devaluing rape victims' experience when you compare pregnancy that was a result of reckless yet willing sexual actions to rape./u/socialworker80 has been a victim of rape and is a family molestation survivor. Maybe you should tell her how not being allowed to have an abortion is akin to how she was sexually violated. <3  Thank you for your willingness to continue this conversation with me.
I have no idea what you're trying to argue here.  I didn't mention suffering and I never claimed conception is immoral, just that it is not the most likely outcome of a sexual encounter. Are you consistent with that belief?  Do you withhold medical care for people who take risks by not wearing seat belts, eating unpasteurized cheese, not getting vaccinated, etc?  Besides pregnancy, when do you think it's appropriate to impinge on what someone is allowed to do with their body because of previous decisions about how to use it? If I dragged someone to my house and they refused to leave when I asked them to, I would have a right to defend myself, certainly.  There's no "lesser force" when it comes to abortion.  I could ask a visitor to leave.  There's no way to politely ask a fetus to evacuate your uterus. The time it takes to secure a child with a responsible adult is not in any way comparable to 9 months of pregnancy plus giving birth.  It's not completely black and white.  Also, I'm "forcing" the mother to keep the fetus until she can get to the doctor, too.  Or rather, the practicalities of life are, just like the mom of a child.  I have legal obligations to that child that are in force until I pass them off.  I have no such obligations to a fetus.  Because there is no alternative to abortion if I no longer want to be pregnant.  There is an alternative to child abandonment. What?  You realize I'm pro-CHOICE? Again, what?  To me, for a woman to freely choose she should have access to affordable food, shelter, education/employment, childcare, etc etc.  This isn't the case now, and there are a lot of barriers in place between the present and the socialist society I dream of.  Reality limits everybody's choices.  However, further limitation of a pregnant woman's choices by making abortion illegal goes in the complete opposite direction of free choice.  The pro-choice movement and politicians who are pro-choice are the ones advocating for the social programs that will make free choice more of a reality. I think you're misunderstanding me.  It can be a responsible choice for some women.  No one has a responsibility to get an abortion they don't want.  Again, that's the opposite of choice. Wow.  Have you done any research into why women want abortions?  I think it might give you more compassion for the desperation that drives abortion most of the time.  And I will again make the point that there are alternatives to parenting, not so to pregnancy. Then you are a misogynist, full stop. You can't see a difference between "this is how to stay healthy during pregnancy" and "I know better than you if you should be pregnant at all"?  "Here's how to take care of your body" vs "here's how I demand you use your body against your will because I know better than you do"?  This is highly problematic and deserves some thought on your part, please. But it is granted.  The woman is free to choose how she uses her body.  The doctor doesn't tell her what to do, just helps her do what she chooses, safely.  Like with your prenatal care example.  The doctor didn't decide whether your mother should use her uterus to gestate you, s/he just told her the best way to go about it. Yes, the pro-choice argument for keeping abortion legal and easily accessible is that when women are desperate they find ways to abort.  Home remedies are generally not as safe as real medicine.  Doctors have knowledge and training.  For example, if a woman sticks a coat hanger in her vagina to try to give herself an abortion, she can get an infection, bleed out, be unsuccessful with the abortion, etc.  If a doctor does it, s/he has the training to keep a sterile field, knows the anatomy to not do any damage to the cervix or hit a large blood vessel, etc.  It's a surgery... I don't understand where this rape victim or life of the mother comes up.  It's a tangent that I'm going to avoid for now.  Suffice it to say I think any pregnant woman who wants an abortion should get one, easily and legally. In rape, the rapist accesses the body of their victim and uses it without their consent.  In unwanted pregnancy, the fetus accesses the body of the mother and uses it without her consent.  Pregnancy can be painful and childbirth most certainly is.  It is a different violation, rape vs forced pregnancy and childbirth, but that doesn't mean they're not both awful violations of a person's bodily autonomy. I disagree.  I think you are devaluing pregnant women's experience (here and all throughout your comment).  I am not minimizing the anguish that is rape.  I am saying that forcing a person to use their body in ways they don't consent to is wrong, regardless of the other trappings of the violation.
1/ Right, but you were basing your argument on the same grounds as abortion being comparable to natural death because in some cases conception is not likely. Natural death isn't the same as artificial human induced abortion. It's still an argument for abortion or against fetal rights for the reason my comment illustrated. 2/ Yes, I am consistent, because not one of the situations you cited involves causing the death of another human being that you caused to be in a situation. Your analogy is flawed because an intruder has control and intent.  A zygote/embryo/fetus doesn't. In fact it's the woman's actions (through consensual sex) that puts the zygote into her uterus, and therefore would be more akin to you dragging an unconscious homeless person into your house then shooting them. Your comparison is purposefully deceptive. So basically abortion is good because you say so. Right. Are a mother's time, energy, comfort, mental capacity not part of her body? It is sad that so many people have decided that 9 months out of their entire lives was more valuable than the potential life span of the people with no rights, which is estimated at 79 years each. It is very sad that they don't have the right to live because someone decided that based off of their stage of development and location, they did not deserve rights. It is sad that so many of these children are mercilessly cut up into bits and sucked through a vacuum. It is sad that they are not even treated with human decency even after they have been murdered, but rather sold like old toys at a yard sale. I realize that you are prochoice, yes. I asked the questions because I hoped that as a self-proclaimed pro-choicer you would be open to giving wider choices for the mother. What? Things will never be perfect so we can't ban abortion? That's like saying if you can't stop ALL of the injustices you should not ban them. We can try, but not everything can be solved. It is inevitable there will be something wrong, and the reason the law exists- to protect people - and so we can punish those who violate other's rights. Oh come on. Do you really believe actions are justified just because they are choices? I doubt you think you should have the right to run me over with a truck because it is a choice. We all believe there are choices, but at the same time, we believe that there are good and bad choices. But since you don't consider it a right as a choice to run me over- why the double standard? Responsible: being the primary cause of something and so able to be blamed or credited for it. Abortion just allows you a ticket out of taking responsibility for your actions. And again, choices aren't justified just because they are choices. I have, but I don't see how that defeats my argument. Abortion kills a human being. Therefore, abortion is wrong. If you believed that murder/rape/theft/vandalism should be illegal, would you budge on this stance if it negatively implicated the murderer/rapist/etc in some way? No, you'd hold to your stance that murder/rape/theft/vandalism is immoral and say to hell with whatever (unfortunately negative) consequences come along with it. here is some recent data on abortion reasons, though it limited to a few states. But you get the idea. Ohhhhh no... wait... this stuff about doctors knowing better then their patients and being prolifers is... misogynistic? I wish someone had told me this ages ago. Yeah, now that you put it that way, I actually get it. I'm done saying doctors know better than their patients. I'm done being prolife. Pack your bags, /u/socialworker80, we can be pro-choice now because our views are misogynistic and stupid! No, I can't see the difference between telling a pregnant woman how to take care of herself and telling her how to take care of the human she created. I'd like to know how telling someone that they can't kill someone else is a violation of their rights. I'm not asking this to be a cunt, I'm asking it because I'm genuinely curious and have yet to hear a good defense. If you really believe that a woman’s body is autonomous, then you must defend a mother who does things that could seriously harm her unborn child, even if she hasn’t chosen to abort it. But psych ward and suicidal patients don't have the autonomy to do what they want. You didn't answer that one. Continuing on, that is because the doctor has the child and the mother's best interests in mind. Though it is true that probably save for a few prolifers out there, if my mother had disregarded the doctor's orders and I had died or been born with health defects, people wouldn't care or agree that I should have been aborted to save me from suffering. See above. surgery was invented to save lives, not take them. Your argument is invalid. If a woman is so desperate to kill her child that she attempts to murder it with a coat hanger, she is probably suffering from a mental illness, not just pregnancy. You said, 1/ That's where I got the idea that you were bringing rape into this conversation. 2/ Maybe you will find this an interesting read. Having your rights forcefully taken from you is not the same as becoming pregnant as a result of actions you chose to take. The child did not force itself upon the mother. The child did not invade the mother. At no point in time did the child forcefully enter the mother's body. It was conceived there, so it cannot be said to have come from the outside and invaded the mother. The same cannot be said for a rapist or slave owner. Perhaps it would serve you well to see a graphic description of rape in comparison to pregnancy. 3/ i do not underestimate the pain of pregnancy when I say that the two have vast differences. I understand that it is painful, but that doesn't prove it is at all similar to rape. It is true that as a virgin, I have never been pregnant, so I cannot fully understand what it means to go through the physically tasking jobs to watch for my child's health as well as my own, but I have watched my mother go through pregnancy six times, and through a second point of view, it doesn't look like a life-threatening disease to carry a pregnancy to term, and nowhere near as traumatizing as being raped would be. Honestly, the way some people talk about pregnancy, you'd think it was a disease like STDs or strep throat or cancer.
No, that's not at all what I said. 2/ Your analogy is flawed because an intruder has control and intent. A zygote/embryo/fetus doesn't. In fact it's the woman's actions (through consensual sex) that puts the zygote into her uterus, and therefore would be more akin to you dragging an unconscious homeless person into your house then shooting them. Your comparison is purposefully deceptive. Here's a more reasonable comparison.  I'm driving drunk with my kid in the car.  We get in an accident.  They are injured and will die without some of my blood.  Am I legally obligated to donate blood to save them?  My actions put them in a position to need blood, they don't have control or intent over the situation.  What are my legal obligations? I'm not saying it's universally good or bad.  Not sure where you got that at all. No... they're not.  Tell me where time, energy, comfort, or mental capacity are located on a body. I'm sorry it makes you sad.  What makes me sad is treating women like walking incubators.  Like saying they don't have the mental capacity to decide who gets to use their bodies in what way.  Or child abuse, that makes me sad too and is higher in places without abortion.  It makes me sad that you think you should get to have authority over other people's bodies for any length of time, 9 months or 9 minutes, because of feelings their choices give you. How is taking away the option for abortion giving her wider choices?  One fewer option is more options? No.  Things aren't perfect so women who choose abortion are coerced by imperfect reality.  If all those things were fixed I would feel like women could make reproductive choices more freely, including the choice to abort. I think I do have the right to choose to run you over in certain circumstances, such as: you're threatening me and running you over is the only escape open to me. Yeah a woman is taking the blame/credit when she chooses to get an abortion.  She is taking responsibility, owning up to the results of her actions, and dealing with them.  By your own definition, she is being responsible.  She's not blaming anybody else, she's not avoiding thinking about it or just going with the flow.  She's facing her unwanted pregnancy and getting an abortion. So is it wrong to be in the military?  Is it wrong to defend yourself if someone is threatening you?  Is it wrong to withhold your organs from people who will die without them?  I think very few people believe all killing is wrong, though maybe you are one of them. Here's some data without that limitation and without such abyssal response rates: https://www.guttmacher.org/sites/default/files/pdfs/journals/3711005.pdf   "The reasons most frequently cited were that having a child would interfere with a woman’s education, work or ability to care for dependents (74%); that she could not afford a baby now (73%); and that she did not want to be a single mother or was having relationship problems (48%)." It's mostly financial issues that drive abortion.  And you want to argue that it is mentally ill for these women to choose to abort?  That's so insulting.  I don't even really have the words for you.  If you decided you couldn't afford a new car that I wanted you to buy and I said that made you mentally ill, wouldn't you be incredulous?  There's no reason to think that someone making a different choice than you'd like them to is mentally ill.  That's also insulting to real mental illness. If you don't believe that women are the authority on their bodies and lives, if you think the state, doctors (which can be women, so that really doesn't make any sense), or you are better equipped to decide for them who is allowed to be inside their bodies... yes that is the very definition of misogyny.  Why do you think anyone else should get not just a say but complete control over a woman's body?  What issues do you have with women that you see them as sub-human? They are different, but that's not even what I said.  You can't see the difference between instructions for a healthy pregnancy and a doctor deciding whether or not a woman stays pregnant?  In one case, the doctor is advising how to accomplish a goal the woman has.  In the other case she has become livestock for the doctor. I have a right to self defense.  If you take that away because the thing violating me is a fetus, you are violating my rights and giving the fetus more rights than any person has. Yes, I do.  It's sad, she probably should not be pregnant or parent her child, but I do think she has a right to do whatever she wants to her body.  As do our laws- it's not illegal for pregnant women to drink or smoke. It is insulting and grossly sexist to equate being pregnant with being mentally ill.  There is nothing wrong with a woman's brain just because she gets pregnant!  Do you also think pregnant women shouldn't be allowed to drive or leave the house or choose what they eat?
I read through your comment again, and though you attempt you justify abortion as self defense, you have not provided any sources to prove your point. As a matter of fact, the mother and epfetus have a beneficial symbiotic relationship, for example if the mother has heart problems, the fetus sends stem cells to help repair it. Again, you haven't provided any proof to substantiate your claim. You just keep saying abortion is a method of self defense. That doesn't prove anything. And not to sound like a massive cunt, but you're wrong. [self defense](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-defense_(United_States) The definition clearly states that self defense is used to prevent bodily harm. Abortion in 99% of cases is not used for this purpose. Your source even admits this, and your source- PP's right hand Institute- is prochoice. No misogyny there. And at the same time you support abortion because that same child may experience health defects and it is unfair to the child. Lol Another strawman! Yeah, these are easy to defeat so I can't blame you exactly, but for the last time, I did not compare being mentally ill to being pregnant; I compared wanting to kill your child, whether it is born or unborn, and even being desperate enough for its death that you go to the extent of attempting to murder it with a coat hanger, to mental illness. To an extent,for her health and the health of her child. You may call me misogynistic if you wish. If wanting the child and its mother to remain healthy through the pregnancy makes me a misogynist then so be it.
I didn't say they were the same or that you said that exactly. I said that they are on the same grounds. 1/ If I am directly responsible for someone's condition and the actions I took are ones in which I knew there was a chance of creating a needy person, and they would literally die without my help, then yeah I would support overriding bodily autonomy. 2/ You hinted it. Apologies if that's not what upyou meant. She must use her time and energy to commit to actions she may not want to. Her mental capacity is located in her brain. These are not technically physical aspects, but they are part of her body in the same way your personality is a part of you. So you consider a woman's body the only consideration about her worth, what rights she has? You don't care about her time, her energy, her mental status? That's kinda sexist, to only think about a woman's body. No one is saying that. We are saying that women should OWN THEIR SHIT and go through pregnancy because their actions resulted in the creation of a human being, and they should not be allowed to kill it just because it is inconvenient to them. so you're saying a child only matters if he or she is loved and treated well? A person's value is based on how well they are treated by others? I was a victim of child abuse, yet I am happy to be alive. Your example is morally deficit as it assumes that because a child might experience hardship, it is better to kill him or her. If I make exceptions because the child is unwanted, will be abused, or will have a disability, etc,  I am thereby also saying people matter because of their utility to others who have the desire to use them. That is unfair as they are all human beings even if they have faced hardships. If my mother had made the decision to abort me based on the example you gave, I would be dead simply because no one thought my life would be of value due to possible hardships. oh ok? so you'd say fuck all to any kid who demands labour from their mother due to its needs? you'll kill simply because fetuses 'challenge' "a woman's right to choose"? you'll support the right to kill people who prevent you from making 'free choice'?  a woman asks you to support her right to kill children she is unable to give up for adoption - WILL YOU JOIN IN? if you do - then you are evil No she's not - she's kicking it out of the equation so she doesn't have to deal with it. except her child By killing the result of her actions so she doesn't have to deal with them By hiring a child assassin to crush her child's skull and sucking it through a tube before selling it like old engine parts at a garage sale. That's not being responsible: it's hiding from consequences. Read what I said about negative impacts and such. It doesn't affect the morality of the abortion. Your comparisons are getting sillier by the minute. Firstly, they do not contain another human being in danger because of something's i did. Second of all, it can only be remotely comparable to "terminating a pregnancy" if I took unreasonable loans. You seem really insecure man A different choice that harms a human being? Yes, that is a reason for me to think someone is mentally ill. I have read posts on Twox and here where certain pregnant women are asked what they would do if abortion were outlawed. The answers varied from throwing oneself down the stairs to overdosing on vitamins to punching themselves in the chest and stomach areas to kill the child. You don't consider that mentally ill? Only problem here is it isn't just her body she's authorizing termination on. Quite the strawman. When did I say doctors can't be women? I was saying that pregnant women do not know better than their doctors. Should I have said "including women" so you don't feel that I left women out? And then you accuse me of ignoring the obvious. You are ignoring my entire point, which is that it is not just her body she is making decisions for. Are you purposefully ignoring me? K No one should, but when it is not her body she is making decision over, then it becomes the business of others because you don't have the right to kill an innocent human being. It is a sad time indeed when wanting to protect helpless babies is seen as wanting to control women and seeing them as subhuman. Are you going to wish pregnancy and plague and death on me now, since according to you I am worse than a million Hitlers combined? It is not just her body, so my answer is relevant. Are you going to debate me or keep repeating yourself when you don't like the answer? Ah okay, so if abortion is banned women can compare the agony of not being allowed to have abortions to slavery and its counterparts? Glad you sorted that one out for me.
Surgery doesn't always save lives.  Are you kidding me?  Have you heard of plastic surgery?  Or things like wisdom teeth removal?  Surgery, and medicine in general, exist to improve people's lives and their health.  Which is exactly what an abortion does for a pregnant woman. What makes you say that?  Just because that's what you want to believe? You brought rape up to say that a rapist doesn't have the right to violate their victim's bodily autonomy.  Agreed.  My point is that neither does a fetus. None of that matters.  It's in her body and it's unwanted.  It does not have permission to be there. Let's say I am consensually having sex with someone, they did not force themselves on me, they did not invade me, they are inside my body with my permission.  But oh!  I no longer want to have sex!  I don't want them in my body anymore!  I revoke my consent, and they must leave.  Their presence is no longer wanted.  If they refuse and stay inside of me, that is rape.  It is a violation of my body without my consent.  In the same way that a fetus who doesn't leave when I tell it to is violating my body.  No force necessary for the violation to occur. You don't have to have experienced it to know that pregnancy and childbirth are uncomfortable/painful.  96% of pregnancies have some kind of complication.  The physical recovery time for childbirth is at least 6 weeks, for an uncomplicated vaginal birth.  If someone said they were going to mess with your body in uncomfortable ways for 9 months then beat you up so bad it took 6 weeks to recover, wouldn't you feel justified in using whatever force necessary to protect yourself? Well it can be...  https://www.propublica.org/article/die-in-childbirth-maternal-death-rate-health-care-system For some people it is absolutely just as unwanted.
1/ Surgery, again, was INVENTED to save lives. Operative word. That is still its function at hospitals. Can't we all agree that cosmetic surgery is a social advent that mostly exploits our own self loathing? Fake boobs, nose jobs and tummy tucks are not the same as breast reconstruction after cancer or resolving cleft palate; cosmetic surgery does not save lives. The first surgeries ever done on this globe were to treat illness and injury. Look it up. In 2008 the WHO estimated 234 million surgeries per year worldwide. And that accounted for only WHO member countries. In 2011 15 million had plastic surgery worldwide. Hence, the whole purpose of surgery is saving lives. Using it to kill babies and fix your droopy boobs doesn't change that fact. By the way, abortion has plenty of  dangerous physical side effects(not to mention the danger it puts the woman's life if she decides to get pregnant again: http://americanpregnancy.org/unplanned-pregnancy/abortion-side-effects/ It was you who said banning abortions leads to more back alley abortions. Not me. I was just responding and adding my opinion to prebirth abortions. You even brought up this scenario. Creating strawmen is fun, but it's not realistic. I said that anti rape laws exist to protect people. It was you who compared continuing an unwanted pregnancy to term. The unborn child is not, in any scientific or medical sense, an intruder or a parasite. These words have meanings, and unborn babies do not fit the bill. Sorry. If a you withdraw consent during sex, and the person forces themselves upon you anyway, it is different than pregnancy because the person in question is in control of themselves and has intent. Again, a human embryo/fetus does not, and its the woman's actions that caused it to be in that position. Furthermore, it might seem pleasant to refer to abortion as a woman ‘withdrawing consent’ from her child, but the procedure goes beyond this. During a ‘termination,’ the baby is actively killed. It is crushed, dismembered, poisoned, or torn apart. It is killed, intentionally and purposefully. An unborn child is exactly where he or she is supposed to be. The child couldn't be anywhere else. "Protect" myself? Are you kidding me right now? You are kidding, right? You don't actually believe a fetus is attacking or threatening the mother's life and will continue to do so unless she kills it, do you? Surely if all cases of abortion were self defense, the mother-baby relationship would not be beneficial symbiosis. The only case where abortion could be considered self defense is the life of the mother, and that is such a small percentage of all abortions it is hardly a reason why abortion should be allowed in all cases. And? 1% of all abortions are preformed to save the mother's life. You literally have about a 1 /5,000 chance of dying in childbirth in a DEVELOPED country. That is 0.02% (and this includes woman who are not exhibiting normal healthy pregnancies). https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maternal_death My chances of dying from the flu are 3,697/100, 000. That is 3.5%. My chances of dying of the flu are significantly higher than dying from child birth. http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/fastats/flu.htm Come on. You can make a better argument. It's not as harmful. And again with the unwanted thing: how does this determine the value of someone's life? /u/socialworker80

You and u/justcurious12345 are in a misunderstanding regarding misogyny and your statement. You are not misogynistic because you are a female ex Muslim who left Islam in part due to their misogynistic practices. You were actually saying that women do not necessarily just naturally know about pregnancy and child birth. That is why we get that information from our mothers and grandmothers, our OBGYN's, the internet and books, as well as pregnancy and birthing classes at the hospital. Sure, there is instinct involved. But instinct doesn't for example, tell us that late in pregnancy we should sleep on our left side to increase blood flow to the fetus.


This is my post, and I actually do not really agree that this has been a civil discussion. Although I actually thought that it would be. Call me naive. I believe that you felt that it was "civil" because prochoice people were answering questions that they all agree on, and have upvoted each other. It hasn't been a discussion, rather an echo chamber. Sure, my main question is being answered, but I have been Reddit socially controlled away from having the discussion that I truly made the post for. Allow me to explain...This is my post yet I have only commented the same question twice. Every time, I was downvoted. I had more downvotes than I have now, because I had to edit to put quotations around certain words-because everyone was getting all butthurt. That is ridiculous, this is my post and I was being polite. That is why this discussion is not truly "civil". I have had other questions to ask, but I just quit instead because prochoice on this post kept showing that they didn't want dialogue-by way of downvotes. The people downvoting did not even take the time to leave one sentence of dissent, just downvote and move on. What are you thoughts on this? If you want, I have a follow up question for you regarding your comment: Do you agree that sex exists for 2 reasons, pleasure and procreation? u/SarcasticAce
You're right, I did think sarcastic ace's comment was from you.  Our discussion has/had been civil.  I certainly didn't downvote you.  All I can speak for is myself, but it had seemed like a reasonable conversation.  You and Sarcastic Ace are the only people who have replied to me, so not sure what makes that an echo chamber.  Unless you're saying that the fact that you got all pro-choice answers to your question in a pro-choice subreddit is somehow an echo chamber? Sounds like reddit.  If I were you, I would have expected downvotes.  If I really had questions I wanted answered, I would ask them despite downvotes. Not only those two reasons.  http://www.webmd.com/sex-relationships/guide/why-people-have-sex
Echo chamber = prochoice giving their opinion as asked, but the OP is encouraged to not ask follow up questions to comments to promote discussion of prochoice opinion, due to butthurt overreaction by people who refuse to even participate in the discussion. 'Whaa whaa a polite question was asked to some other person, so instead of talking I am so compelled to downvote!' I posted here for a reason...this is the crowd that I wanted to talk to in order to discuss their opinions on beliefs held by the prolife crowd, in an environment where it can be civil and not some tired or provoking abortion debate. Rather, a brain picking session. It really has nothing to do with it being a prochoice sub Reddit, because prochoice people frequently come into the prolife sub Reddit just to debate, and not always civilly. I had no reason to believe that you were ever being anything but decent this entire time. Sex for pleasure = bonding, stress relief, biological need, etc.
If you want to let downvotes effect your behavior and silence you, that's your choice.  I don't think it's unexpected when posting this kind of controversial stuff. A person has sex with a prostitute.  Is that for bonding?  Is the prostitute having sex for pleasure at all?  A couple has sex where neither of them orgasm, just for the emotional intimacy.  Is that the same kind of pleasure the person experienced with the prostitute?  I think these are different functions.
Sex without orgasm can certainly be pleasurable for the emotional or physical intimacy. Quadriplegic and paraplegic females have reported enjoying sex despite feeling no physical sensation, because of the physical and emotional intimacy. I mentioned biological need as pleasure. Is that why someone is having sex with a prostitute? Another reason? I imagine the motivations for that would vary greatly by person, because it is not a legal or mainstream practice. As would the reason why the prostitute is prostituting. Is the prostitute liking the money and thus has pleasure? Not every prostitute is homeless and drug addicted. Liberated and loving sex and loves the sex industry? What about the prostitutes that hate it but do it because they are addicted to heroin? Are they even having "consensual" sex, from a philosophical standpoint? I don't normally give a shit about the downvotes, if I have something to say. It was just irritating that I came for civil discussion, and was just being beaten up on for absolutely no reason. It turned me off.

For me, personally, an anti-abortion person suggesting adoption is always going to seem calculated, because they don't really consider abortion a potentially good option.  As a pro-choicer, I don't think that abortion is the right solution for unwanted pregnancy for everybody, so I view adoption as a possible good alternative when abortion isn't the right fit.  But for someone who believes abortion is evil or morally wrong, who believes that it will 100% be the wrong choice for every single person . . . the suggestion to carry to term and put one's child up for adoption is always going to be a default, rather than measured counseling in regards to a specific situation, you know? I also see a lot of conflating pregnancy and birth with raising a child; while obviously, an undecided pregnant woman is thinking both of the now and the future, there's a popular saying in the pro-choice community: adoption is the alternative to parenting, not to pregnancy. There's also a lot of pretending, I think, that adoption is an easy solution, presumably because anti-abortion folks either truly believe (or at least push the idea that) abortion is so painful/traumatic/soul-crushing for a woman that adoption is far better for her emotionally and psychologically.  In reality, we know that abortion has a negligible  effect on mental health, so we can go in comparing the issues with each on an individual basis.  And nobody really knows for sure how a given reproductive decision will affect them- you can go in thinking you'll feel one way and end up feeling differently when it actually happens- but there's a lot of evidence pointing to adoption (especially certain types, like closed adoption) being very difficult for a woman to bear.  And so to for abortion.  The only difference being that the anti-abortion community uses intense pressure, scare tactics, and manipulation in favor of one option.  And in society, women who regret putting their children up for adoption (much like women who regret having children to raise themselves) are an uncomfortable topic that we don't want to address/deal with; their pain often gets swept under the rug (whereas at least women who regret their abortions are readily embraced/co-opted by the anti-abortion movement). In 2004, Guttmacher administrated a structured survey that was completed by 1,209 abortion patients at 11 large providers (with in-depth interviews conducted with 38 women at four sites), and in their findings, they noted: "While fewer than 1% of women in the quantitative survey volunteered that they would not consider or did not favor having a baby and giving it up for adoption, more than one-third of interview respondents said they had considered adoption and concluded that it was a morally unconscionable option because giving one's child away is wrong."  Regardless of what we make of that statistic, it's something that can't be ignored.  Ant-abortion folks like to pretend that the decision to abort rather than adopt is one of selfishness/self-centered pragmatism.  In actuality, for a lot of people, they have just as strong feelings about the morality of adoption as other people feel about abortion. I think that the foster care system argument is a little bit of a pro-choice gotcha! question- basically, using it as a way to shut down any anti-abortion argument that involves lines like "but so many people would love your baby/so many couples can't conceive so how dare you abort!".  Basically, it's a rhetorical cudgel to slam over the heads of anybody whose argument is based on scarcity (with an added side of implicit accusation of/judgment for people wanting "perfect babies" rather than older children from the foster care system that are seen as less desirable).  I tend not to talk about the foster system much in my discussions regarding abortion. Overall, the topic is so huge and fascinating.  Really, there's stigma attached, in varying degrees, to whatever option a woman chooses for her unintended pregnancy, and indeed even for being in the situation of unintended pregnancy in the first place.  It'd be wonderful if we could discuss the nuances, but it's hard to do when they're basically obliterated by the other side, which views abortion as unviable and thus not really up for discussion beyond its unacceptability.
I appreciate how thoughtful your reply is.  I think OP is just looking for an argument, so I'm not sure if they'll respond.  That said, your answer was well thought out and supported.  The stats about women who see adoption as immoral are new to me!  I'm glad to have them in my "pro-choice arsenal." You touch on this briefly, but do you know of any studies about the long term effects of adoption?  Both on the birth mothers and on the children.  It seems like a very solid argument that abortion is unlikely to cause any long term trauma (I've seen the studies), whereas adoption does (sources?).  I totally believe it and would love to have a study to read about that piece of that argument.
A Child Welfare Information Gateway study that found that “three-quarters of birth mothers still experienced feelings of loss 12 to 20 years after placing their newborns.”
Thanks!
I don't care what kind of adoption you're talking about, it is NOT a viable alternative to abortion. Adoption is a very important option for women to have, but abortion needs to be offered alongside it. Abortion stops the pregnancy and having a baby to care for. Adoption only stops having a baby to care for. They're two totally different things. You need both.
Adoption is an alternative to parenting, not an alternative to pregnancy, which is expensive and taxing emotionally and physically.
"I have often seen the prolife community ask the prochoice community, why don't you just place the child for adoption instead of having an abortion?" Because not all women want to stay pregnant and give birth, it's as simple as that.  Pregnancy and childbirth can still be difficult and in some cases, life-threatening for a number of women, even in the 21st century. That is why only the woman who is pregnant gets to decide whether to continue a pregnancy or not.  And it doesn't have to be a serious medical reason for choosing abortion instead of adoption.  "I don't want to be pregnant" and "I don't want a baby" are two perfectly valid reasons for choosing abortion, and it is each woman's right to make that choice.
This reminds me of the time that a prochoice person told me that not wanting to be pregnant, is not one of the valid arguments for prochoice. I was like "wtf? It falls under the bodily autonomy argument". Then they were like, "no, you have to say bodily autonomy you can't just say that they don't want to be pregnant...blah blah blah nonsense stuff". But I digress...



That was their plan all along.  Which is stupid because it only leads to more abortions.  If you want less abortions, provide free or low cost and accessible birth control and proper sex education.


I hope I always remember the concluding paragraph. Such a good approach for how to talk to young children who are old enough to think up and ask tough questions but not yet able to understand the whole plain truth.
I cried a little reading this

I support abortion because it should be a lady's choice what she wants to do to herself. Using this logic, I think we should also support prostitution. Does this make sense? I myself am pro-choice for prostitution.

It's weird that you called my post sexist. I focused on females, so that's anti-sexist, I feel. Of course, men and lgbt matter too, but I feel people are more tolerant of male prostitutes. I'm a man. I don't think I have any internal struggle with abortion. I'm completely fine with it. If someone doesn't want a baby, they probably won't be a good parent anyway. People should be allowed to be in desperation, addiction, and destitution if they want. Some women get rich off of prostitution. Men like women. It's a win-win situation, probably a bigger win for the prostitute. I'm not sure about supporting people or assisting their needs... Most people can do that by themselves. (Of course, a few prostitutes will never get rich. That's their fault. They chose the wrong career or have strange circumstances.) Tons of women are already having sex with strangers for free. It seems like you're not just anti-prostitution, but anti-sex too. I'm not religious, so I believe anything people want to do in their own bedrooms is fine. Edit: You're going to need some evidence to back up your claims that prostitution is a last resort.

Ps: Evidence evidnce evidence more evidnce even more evidence and a bit more Just by the way, no one wants to be desperate, addicted, or destitute.
Honestly, I prefer to be called stupid instead of a troll. These are my true opinions.
I support both. I want prostitution legalized and regulated. It's a matter of safety of the women and men involved. The same reason I support legal abortion. Safety first.
Human trafficking often coerces minors into a lifestyle they do not want and traps them in it.
Not "reproductive", but certainly it's an issue of bodily autonomy and the reach of government into private matters.  So in that sense, yes, they share similarities. You'll find that there's all sorts of outlooks on this, though- there are pro-choicers who support sex work and those who oppose it, and there are similarly anti-choicers who fall on either side of the argument regarding sex work.  Whether one is "consistent" really depends on what motivates their stances on each issue, and there are many- morality, bodily autonomy, harm reduction, justice, etc., etc.. (For what it's worth, I support abortion rights and sex worker rights).
I think we should legalize and regulate prostitution. It will make it much safer for the sex workers and the clients, as it relates to not only violence but also disease and drug addiction that often goes hand in hand with current "black market" prostitution. As it relates to a political philosophy, it's a fairly libertarian (small "L") position. Its about individual rights. Both abortion and prostitution could be easily defined as individual's rights over their own body autonomy. Unfortunately many (I would dare say most) people who self ID as libertarian also believe that a 1 day old freshly conceived fetus has full human rights that trump that of the mother.
Another 'classic liberal'/'small l'  here.  Most small l's and even some big L's I've spoken with tend to really hate abortion, even see it as killing but do think the woman trumps the fetus. This may be a case of different circles. That said there really does seem to be a large contingent of the L's that are just ex-repubs sick of talking about abortion or gay marriage every flipping election (even if they hate one or both) and want to focus on taxes.
Well the issue with prostitution is that it has a lot of potential to harm people if not regulated properly. Abortion really only concerns the mother and the fetus, IMO just one actual person really so that's why I support it, it's a decision that only impacts the one person that opts into it. Prostitution on the other has a bit of a farther reach, for example say a prostitute takes a customer who has an STD, the prostitute may not know of it, and the customer may not tell because they know they'll never see the prostitute again. Now the prostitute has an STD, but maybe she can't afford treatment, much less time off from her trade. So then she goes on to spread it because she probably won't see her clients more than once anyway. You can't just tell people that they can go trading sex for money all willy nilly because you'll run into problems, you need to have heavily regulated brothels, which work in Nevada for example, but to implement it nation wide you would need to get a lot of people interested in policing others genitals.


When will the war on women's rights end?

Ah yes, but a lot of Christians are extremely homophobic and would rather a child be in foster care for all of its childhood life than to be adopted by a gay couple. So maybe I am an asshole for thinking that life shouldn't exist if the parents don't want it to, than to give the child a miserable life. And honestly, I'm okay with that. A child should never feel like it's a burden.
First of all I'd like to say that I'm sorry to hear about this situation, and hope that the girl in the article can get support and help she needs. However, the overarching issue is that there are children. Human beings who are alive. This ultimately is something we need to learn is far more valuable than anything else. And I'm sorry but saying that the woman decided for you is fallacious. It doesn't matter what anyone says, ultimately it is still your choice. And ultimately having an abusive partner does not excuse you to harm others, which is what abortion does
It's not legal in Ireland.  You have to travel, or illegally obtain abortion pills and face 14 years in prison. She needed someone to mind her kid to fly and was convinced otherwise. The point is the choice isn't there for the very vulnerable in Ireland.
There is a lot of choice, there is adoption. Because something is illegal doesn't remove choice. And the difficulty of something which is illegal isn't really of concern. What she needs help with is her mental and emotional state and with raising the kids. This probably goes beyond governmental help really
Are you, perchance, a US citizen of the pro life persuasion? Governmental help is actually seen as a necessary part of society here, mental and emotional support is a government remit, but despite abortion being illegal,  they don't follow through. She also did seek help from women's aid. If you don't think the government should help and support a single and vulnerable mother, emotionally,  mentally,  financially and practically,  with child care and such, as that which works so well in the Nordic countries, then abortion should be legal. You can't have neither,  or else we move back to mother and baby homes, where women were enslaved for their entire lives and their babies were either sold or abused and sometimes murdered. That's not on.
Women aren't enslaved forever. I respect that some women get raped but child bearing is forced on no one (apart from those who are raped)
Yes it is. To say that child bearing isn't forced Inn anyone but also to deny any government help is the epitome of hypocrisy.  Some people though. Expecially US citizens of the pro life persuasion. It's baffling how little compassion you can a how every single facet if the possible situations.
I'm not a hypocrite because UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES do I think a Mother should kill her child. And I would not do it myself. Secondly, if there was no government what would people do then? Thirdly, I do believe in government assistance just not government reliance. We as a community ought to help these people.  As a Christian I give to the church and organisations which SUPPORT mothers
You are a hypocrite if you think that a woman carrying a fetus with no kidneys shouldn't kill her child through a painful labour instead of the humane option. So, as a Christian, you would support the idea of Mother and baby homes, where women were enslaved by the church and the children died of neglect and abuse after they were born. Christianity is the most hypocritical beliefs of all. It beggars logic and reason that all of your morals derive from teachings rather than critical thinking about the world and compassion.
Actually the Christian worldview is what makes logic possible, which is interesting. In fact the Christian worldview accounts for love and morality in the best way also. If there is no God and no plan for the universe, why be compassionate or living at all?
If you believe that logic depends on the illogical rationale of the belief in a supernatural being, then logic is lost in you. There is no God and there wish no plan for the universe and yet people are compassionate, as a result of human nature, and people are able to live their whole lives productivity with it the need for a taught belief in a supernatural being. If your morality depends on taughtology, then it reasons that you, personally, are not intrinsically moral or capable of intrinsic compassion. These are usually the types who are not able to think for themselves or fight for true injustices. It is a shame for you that you are unable to be compassionate or find a purpose for living without the feeling that you are obeying some invisible being that watches you all the time and that you all recipes so afraid of your own inevitable death that you must believe in a non existant plan. Edit: here is a link to a live science article that shows that people without spiritual beliefs are more motivated by compassion than those who identify themselves as religious. http://www.livescience.com/20005-atheists-motivated-compassion.html

Oh I see. You like your tax dollars going towards people on welfare. You like knowing that a child is born, even though they and everyone around them are miserable. Because of people like you, there are so many foster children who aren't being adopted.
Actually it's people like Obama who removed the license from CHRISTIAN adoption agencies because they believed a child deserves a mother AND a father. That's one of the reasons children can't get adopted. Christians are, and always have been the most generous of people. The ones who looked after the homeless, poor, weak and medically in need. Most charities; set up by Christians. The other reason is the negative rhetoric towards raising kids that's propagated through our media and social media today, and also by people like you. Also, the negative rhetoric towards marriage and stable relationships. The problem you are having right now is that you believe that if someone's existence is going to cause misery, or if that person is going to be miserable then they ought to die. I refute that and I think it's a disgusting way of treating human life.
One of the reasons children can't get adopted is because Christians prevent perfectly capable gay couples from adopting. Glad you understand. Incorrect. Christians are less generous than atheists Christians consider giving to their church as charity, not charity Non religious children are more generous Religion makes people meaner What negative rhetoric? Be specific please. Most people want to raise children withing stability so that the children's core psychological needs of stability, safety and belonging are met. People may object to bringing children into the world when these grounds are lacking as it puts the child at a clear psychological disadvantage from the get go. I can see that you have a problem disseminating facts to their actual conclusion. You are not treating life well yourself, however you clearly appear to let your religious beliefs form a guard around all Rational and logical evidence. For instance, Christians being more generous is something you believe, as it gives you a a personal sense of satisfaction, even though the evidence will tell you that you are actually far less generous.
some Christians are generous. The others are not generous to the people who are LGBT, not a member of their version of Christianity, a member of another faith, not-religious, pro-choice, and/or any number of judgemental things they can think of. Just like you towards the woman in the article.
"Women aren't enslaved forever." The implication being it's okay with the hard-line anti-choice extremists if a woman is so enslaved (by being forced to stay pregnant and give birth against her will) for nine months.  Got it.
No. You are making an assumption based on pure conjecture
I disagree; the "women aren't enslaved forever" statement makes the implication obvious; to me anyway.
That's the problem with you guys. All you think about is "me, me, me". Your reference point, your interpretation and judgement is fallible and unstable and quite frankly selfish. Do I believe that women are even enslaved by having children? No. I was simply using your own words against you. The truth is what was supposed to happen is that a man a woman would get married then have kids. And the marriage bond being life long would allow for children to be raised in a nurturing environment. However, in our sex driven culture today, of course women are going to see it as enslaving because if it stops you from doing what you want it's supposedly enslaving. However that isn't true. There are some things which are wrong above all and so you shouldn't do them. Such is the killing of an INNOCENT human being to free you from your supposed self inflicted "slavery"
"Your reference point, your interpretation and judgement is fallible and unstable and quite frankly selfish." Call it "selfish" all you want.  Your opinions aren't going to change my mind.  I feel very badly for any girl or woman who ends up in a CPC instead of a real women's clinic and doesn't realize she can just walk out the door. "Do I believe that women are even enslaved by having children? No." Forced child bearing IS enslavement, especially when a woman never wanted to be pregnant in the first place, your beliefs notwithstanding. "The truth is what was supposed to happen is that a man and woman would get married then have kids. And the marriage bond being life long would allow for children to be raised in a nurturing environment." Not every woman wants marriage, pregnancy or children.  Some women prefer to focus on career, travel, or further education instead of the "traditional marriage/family" route, and that is their right.  And they don't have to be celibate for life as some kind of punishment for refusing to marry and/or reproduce.

You're extremely judgemental. Just a tip, it's not a good argument to make broad sweeping statements about "the problem with you guys". It sets up a fallacious argument that paints you as being wrong. You used those words. Using them against someone would imply you successfully used the argument to prove the opponent wrong.  You used the words to admit to the fact that the woman is enslaved and that since it is not forever, that is okay. You actually used the argument against yourself. Whose truth is this? Is it Neil Patrick Harris' truth? Is it the truth of the Irish population who used the popular vote in favour of gay marriage? No. It is simply your own personal truth. Or rather, a truth a strict adherence to a Christian ideology has brainwashed you into believing. You really don't appear to be rationally able to think for yourself. This doesn't even make sense. What part of our culture is sex driven? Can you compare it to the culture of past times to prove that current culture is more or less sex driven than before? Are movements such as the Christian abstinence movements not equally sex driven? So, it may be argued that Christian behaviour is more ruled by a culture of sex than other cultures, as it is mainly based around strict sexual etiquette as exposed by Christian preachers? Stopping someone from doing what they want to do, limiting their freedom because of someone else, yes, that's a pretty decent definition of enslavement. What? That someone is being forced to do something against their will for someone else? I thought you just said a second ago that that was the definition of enslavement. Such as gay marriage? Those are your personal morals that someone has taught you and since you lack the skills of critical thinking, you claim them as your own. Dont demand or assume that others cant think for themselves or form their own concepts of what should or should not be done. Against not making much sense. Firstly,you assume that pregnancy is self inflicted. Even if the sexual act that led to the pregnancy was consensual,  it's a pretty hard stretch to say that a woman inflicted a pregnancy by herself. Secondly, you're confusing the topic of enslavement again. I am not surprised you don't  have a well defined grasp of the topic.
"There is a lot of choice, there is adoption. " Adoption is the solution only for women who don't want to parent.  It is not the solution for women who don't want to be pregnant.  Being forced to stay pregnant and give birth when a woman never wanted to be pregnant in the first place isn't a "choice" at all.
And tell me how does a woman get pregnant without engaging in an act that creates pregnancies (excusing rape which is 1% of abortions) Excluding rape, didn't that woman make the "choice" before doing said deed? I've coined a new term, I am: Pro choice BEFORE sex. What's your position?
Consent to sex doesn't mean consent to pregnancy and birth.  I don't care how many claim it does.   Many women use birth control to avoid unwanted pregnancy; the problem is that no contraceptive on the market is 100% guaranteed against it.  So birth control failures can and do happen. In any case, it is irrelevant how the pregnancy occurred.  A woman still has the right to choose abortion, in the U.S. anyway.  And what's my "position?"  That's easy; pro-choice before, during, and after sex.  It's the WOMAN's choice, at all points.
You are correct. Consent to sex isn't consent to pregnancy. But notice that one can't happen without the other. If you know this and still consent to the former you are "effectively" consenting to the latter by matter of natural cause and effect. The transcendent issue here really is what is the unborn. If the unborn are not human I agree, the choice goes solely to the woman and she is within her rights to do what she likes. If the unborn ARE human however... (As has been confirmed by embryology)
"If you know this and still consent to the former you are "effectively" consenting to the latter by matter of natural cause and effect." Whatever.  At the end of the day, it doesn't matter how the pregnancy occurred.  A woman still has the right to choose abortion.  And she has the right to walk out the door of a CPC instead of listening to some staffer's manipulative "don't have an abortion, we'll take care of your baby" lie.
"And ultimately having an abusive partner does not excuse you to harm others, which is what abortion does." A woman doesn't need an "excuse" or justification to have an abortion, regardless of what some anti-choice CPC staffer believes.  In that woman's situation, I would have chosen to have an abortion as well.  But I would not have stuck around to hear some manipulative "don't have an abortion" lecture.  I would have been out the door as soon as I realized I had been tricked into going there. What's really unfortunate here is that too many girls and women are conned into continuing pregnancies they never wanted in the first place, by these CPC staff members who specialize in tactics of shame and manipulation in order to get them to continue their pregnancies.   The best thing these girls/women can do when they realize they're in a CPC instead of a real women's clinic is to walk out the same door they came in.  Immediately.   Too many of them think they have to stay to avoid being perceived as "rude" or "impolite," which IMO is a huge mistake.
Your comment started out nice, then you twisted it into judgement and contempt. For a Christian claiming to have personal revelation from Christ, you aren't very compassionate or loving - Christ's main teaching and the example he lived. A little reminder of what you are supposed to know and live from Jesus:  And the second [great commandment] is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law Just live your life and let others live theirs. If you truly believe in God, he will sort it all out after death. So unless you are going to love her, help her, and/or not judge her, it's none of your damn business.
These so-called "crisis pregnancy centers" are notorious for having staff members who lie to girls/young women who come in about "taking care of their baby."  Yeah, right.  And someday, elephants will fly.   The way I see it, they're anti-choice con artists, nothing more. The more girls and young women who educate themselves on the differences between a real women's clinic and a phony "crisis pregnancy center," the better.  I don't blame the writer of this piece for being angry.  She has every right to be.

But a page called "Ketflix and Pills" is still up....


I'm trying to find any debate in the embryology community about this. It seems like there's a scientific consensus about "life at conception", but I'm trying to find info otherwise.  Any quote from a embryology text book or embryologist that counters the "life begins at conception" would be great.Thanks!
Absolutely no question, the fertilised ovum is alive from conception onwards. The sperm and ovum are also alive prior to conception. There is no debate. Life is continuous. Mature male and female, sperm and ovum, blastocyst, embryo, fetus. All living things. I think the issue you may be trying to get at is, at what stage does the developing embryo/fetus become a person. This is an interesting and complex question, and doesn't have an  easy answer. However, it seems clear to me that a blastocyst (a cluster of cells barely visible to the naked eye) is clearly not a person, but a fetus at 8.5 months is a person (if a newborn is a person, then a late-term fetus is too).
That's why pro lifers can't get around having to make a case for personhood, as much as they'd like to.  If the scientific definition of life is all it takes, then you need to start protecting sperm cells, and probably other types of cells.  Your body's cells can be cloned into a separate human being, scientific advancements allowing.  When are your body's cells deserving of their own personhood?  You can see where the "living being" argument is rather weak on its own.  And even if you can consistently demonstrate personhood at a set point in the life cycle (for example viability outside the womb), you still have to contend with the inherent risks involved in birth, the fact that it is more dangerous to the mother's life than legal abortion (as per CDC), and that birth is unpredictable even in pregnancies that are medically classified as low risk.  So, the personhood of the fetus still has a greater impact, potentially, on the personhood of the mother, than most other people do (including a newborn, since newborns don't require a woman to risk her life during birth, as they've already been born).  Here's another thing I've noticed pro-lifers consistently fail to answer: what percentage risk of death to the mother should be deemed acceptable, as a general rule?
I think you are misunderstanding the crutch of the prolife point of view. It is not any life that matters but rather living and human organism. Sperms do not meet this criteria. This is why you do not see prolifer with signs up saying protect the sperm. Until this basic argument is understood conversations between prolifers and prochoicers will always end up at a stand still. Please ask me any question for clarification if I have not been clear, Thanks.
Oh. hahahaha.  Perhaps you were misunderstanding the crux of the prochoice point of view. No, I understand that many of you (perhaps not you specifically, but this post was about conception) think that just because it's a human organism, that termination is morally questionable (even though the organism is not viable yet, can't feel pain, isn't conscious, AND poses a risk to the gestating mother).  The concept of using conception as a point of moral significance is laughable to me, so in my opinion, people who object to early stage abortions may as well be holding signs about sperm.
Can you clarify why exactly?
The following link is a fairly accurate depiction of my feelings on the matter, minus a few different ways I'd phrase things.  For the purposes of this article, 'human being' is a "man woman and child" (English Oxford living dictionaries).  I'm not going to write a novel in my own words at this point.  The explanation from prochoice action network is long enough. Basically, I don't cherry pick one biological instance (like conception) out of an extremely personal, medically variable, and rapidly changing situation.  Ultimately, biological instances aside, people disagree on when and how the laws should change.  You and I could agree that life started at conception, but that would not be enough to get us to where we could agree on laws about abortion because the mother's life and health would still be a huge factor, and while that may not bother someone else, it bothers me.  The mother is a living human being, actually does have full personhood, and has an established life.  So ultimately the disagreement doesn't come down to life of the blastocyst starting at conception.  It comes down to who and what has control over that life and at what stages, and why.  The why is pretty big to me (especially if it comes down to matters of rape, incest, domestic violence, fetal anomalies and potential disabilities, financial disaster, health conditions like preeclampsia, etc.).  I think it's ridiculous to try and infer moral laws that apply to a wide variety of situations just because one biological event has occurred.  I think the concept of the typical abortion "done out of convenience" is narrow-minded and inaccurate because each situation is so unique. I didn't get this way overnight.  I spent time with women who fight for our reproductive rights and met women who can't take hormonal birth control pills due to medical conditions, women who couldn't afford birth control because they didn't have health insurance, women who had no sex education, women whose parents kicked them out for who they loved, women who have irregular periods, body shame, obesity, HIV, diabetes, mental health issues, autoimmune disorders, and many other situations that may make them not want to have a baby "at this time."  I still think those women deserve to have sex for pleasure, and I think they deserve an abortion if they want one, especially since most abortions stop life so early in the life cycle that most of what's at stake is just potential (no pain is felt, no one loses a loved one that they've spent years with, no one is conscious of what they had, missed, or could have had in more than an abstract manner). But you have to consider all of these things together.  You can't just cherry pick one part of these scenarios.  Ethics are never like that.  Ethics demand a full analysis of the context and if there are generalizable factors, they certainly involve more than just "life starts at conception." http://www.prochoiceactionnetwork-canada.org/articles/fetusperson.shtml
I tried to read the whole article but I couldn't get past this part. Here they say the will expand on this point so I went searching and I can't seem to find where? Biologically a clone is a human being. The cell from your dandruff still needs to be combined with the an egg. See [here] (https://www.sciencedaily.com/terms/somatic_cell_nuclear_transfer.htm). I really do not see how this undermines the prolife argument at all. Can you elaborate?
"Human beings are much more than our genes" refers to human beings as men, women, and children, which is the definition I already said operates in this article.  That means it touches on personhood.  If you finish the article, that much becomes clear.  It's about the significance of all of the variable stages in the human life cycle and how distinct fetal stages are, meaning conception is not the definitive, sole morally significant instance that many of you portray.  For example: Early embryonic forms do not share basic commonalities that define us as human beings. For example, zygotes and blastocysts are barely visible to the naked eye and have no bodies, brains, skeleton, or internal organs. Are they materially substantial enough to count as human beings? Fetuses cannot breath or make sounds, and they cannot see or be seen (except by shadowy ultrasound). They absorb nourishment and expel waste via an umbilical cord and placenta, not via a mouth and anus as do all other human beings. Further, fetuses are not just miniature babies. At various stages, fetuses have eyes on stalks, notochords (instead of spines), fish-like gills, tails, downy fur, distorted torsos, spindly legs, giant heads, and alien-looking faces. In fact, an early human fetus is practically indistinguishable in appearance from a dog or pig fetus. Finally, the fetal brain is not yet capable of conscious thought and memory (which aren't fully actualized until two or three years after birth). But our complex brains are what set us apart from animals and define us as human beings. The brain is the seat of personhood[15]. I never said a clone wasn't a human being.  I suggested that early stage organisms don't deserve legally protected personhood in the same manner that human beings deserve it, meaning I believe in keeping abortion legal.  I suggested that conception is not the defining moral instance in matters of reproductive choice and I already elaborated on that. And anyway, the fact that you need to empty out an egg cell, meaning it contributes none of its own DNA, means that cloning is not biologically identical to human conception (where egg contributes 50% of DNA).  So I'm not sure what you were getting at with your own article. Now it's your turn to elaborate.
I think that this is part of the larger problem when prolifers and prochoicers discuss this issue. Prolifers are using the term human being in the biological manner. While prochoicers (as in your case) many time are using it to reflect some deeper philosophical quality better represented imho by the term personhood. The thing is that for many prolifers a huge part of their argument is that we ought to use the most objective tool we have available to us to draw a line. That is science and more particularly biology. Using any other means to draw a line is arbitrary and subjective. It opens that door to discrimination and can be used at the whimsy of anyone with any ideology. An identical twin has 100% of it's siblings DNA. This is irrelevant. I believe that the biological criteria that determine a human entity as an individual are that they are a living, human organism with separate dna from it's parents. This applies to clones as well. I don't think any prolifer would deny that a clone is a human being with and ought to be given equal rights.
You're entitled to your opinion.  It doesn't make it objectively morally verifiable simply because you have latched on to one point in the life cycle and chosen to ignore all of the other biological events that occur.  A long time ago people were saying same sex marriage was immoral because of the "biological fact" that two men or women can't produce a baby on their own, and "it isn't natural," and a host of other vague, overly simplified messages cherry picked from whatever they wanted them to be.  They ignored all of the other factors of love, family, oxytocin bonding, and shared assets that make a marriage.  The people who supported marriage equality understood that the issue was far more complex and nuanced than just being a fertile couple.  Abortion and personhood are complex and nuanced, otherwise many of you would not admit that at the very least, there should be exceptions for the life of the mother.  Funny you can never state objectively which percentage risk of death is always acceptable.  It kind of indicates that deep down, you know there are too many gray areas, but you latched on to your perspective and that's that.  Anyway, as far as same sex marriage opponents, it's fairly clear at this point in history they were latching on to one biological event to base their entire moral stance on.  If you want to do that with abortion, you're entitled to your opinion.  However, a biological event or factor, in itself, does not seem to make a sound and complete case for a moral stance that's applicable to all scenarios.  If you want to pretend it does, that's your objective and we have nothing left to talk about.  Good luck.  I think I'm done engaging since you refuse to recognize the importance of personhood.

I do not mean to interrupt, but I wanted to add some information pertaining to some of the information that you explain as being part of your viewpoint. You are correct that at certain stages of development our offspring looks similar to that of other species. It is not fetuses, rather the early embryonic period, and this is due to our genetic makeup being similar to that of many other mammalian species at its base. There is a lot of scientific information about this, and it is very interesting. Inside the womb, they swallow and pee out amniotic fluid for about 25 weeks straight. A smaller percentage actually poops. If you read this  it talks about experience inside of the womb. While it is just a guy talking about his child before it was born, he hits the embryology points and provides citations.
The problem with that is that we look back at all the atrocities which were committed in the past where they though simply being a human being did not grant you the right to life and we say they were terrible. How can we define personhood such that allows us to kill a living human being? The only morally sound choice hung to do is to ascribe personhood to a human being and a human being personhood. Which is what we mean when we say person colloquially anyway
Thanks for your response. I agree with you, the personhood conversation is the philosophical one (what has rights and why). Friends have told me before that there's no consensus as to when life begins, and that it could be the heartbeat or the brain. I can now tell them with more confidence that science/biology has already defined that the new cluster of cells (organism?) starts living at conception BUT what still is to be defined is its personhood. Correct?
Yes. A fertilised ovum is alive and is an organism, but it's personhood is questionable. I personally think personhood could be said to arise from the time of viability, or from the time that the fetus can feel pain. Viability is considered to be about 26 weeks, and fetal pain may be possible at week 30. Bear in mind, even if you consider the fetus a person from viability, there are still good reasons to permit abortion after this point. The woman's bodily autonomy should still be front and center (whether or not the fetus is a person). Also, statistics indicate that women almost never seek third trimester abortion except in cases of severe feral abnormality or serious risk to the life or health of the mother. In these unfortunate cases, the fetus can be painlessly euthanised prior to abortion.
Thanks for sharing!
Sure. But a prolifer would say that there is no consistent and objective distinction between person and human being. As a result we must use the latter definition to attribute rights to avoid discrimination against the weak and vulnerable and human rights violations.
What's the latter definition? Human being? Sorry I always confuse the latter/former distinctions.
Yes. That all human beings (or living, human organisms) ought to be treated equally and have the same inalienable rights. Rather than persons since there is no consistent and objective way to distinguish the two (person and human being).
I figure that people who say "life begins at conception" are just using a lazy shortcut, and really mean "life as a human person" begins at conception.
I could see that. They could also really mean "life begins at conception=new unique human organism" (not necessarily a new person with human rights).
There actually is a consensus scientifically as to when life begins, rather it is the personhood that is debatable.
Cool. So biologically, we're talking about a 'consensus as to when life begins' of what? Agreed on the personhood being a separate discussion.
What do you mean of what? Are you referring to the argument regarding if the fertilized egg is human? Just checking.
I mean is there a scientific consensus that the fertilized egg is an organism? If it is, is there a scientific consensus that the organism is human? I understand the human rights discussion is a separate, philosophical one.
I don't think you're going to find what you're looking for since, from a scientific standpoint, both cells are alive before conception and conception is a continuation of life. The debate is generally personhood, not life.
I came across this and I think it is important to point out that prolifers are not only concerned with when "life" begins, but rather when does a new and separate living human organism begin to exist. Until this distinction is acknowledged within the prochoice community I think there will always be confusion and futile discussions between the two camps (prolife/prochoice).
How does life not begin at conception? Is the embryo not alive?
You don't have very good reading comprehension.
Please explain then
You could learn to read instead 💁🏼 Or stop bothering the prochoice subreddit with your inane bullshit... whichever works for you
Sorry. No idea what you just said. I can't read remember? I'm asking why anyone would think that life doesn't begin at conception.
Read the top comment. Sure a fertilised egg is alive, but so is an unfertilised one or a sperm.
Ok but sperm and eggs don't develop and don't have their own unique DNA.
So? Still alive.
I think what /u/Wehavecrashed is saying is that the prolife argument does not rest solely on the fact that something is alive. It must an innocent and living human organism. It also must be a separate entity from it's parents. That's the biological criteria we use and sperm does not meet this criteria.
So i have a long time friend who's just out of a very bad relationship and had 2 procedures during that relationship. I'm looking for a card for her that "says"....Sometimes the party takes you places that you didn't really plan on going....I know its mothers day, and you deserve aknowledgement today.I know this was a bad situation, but you have a friend you can call in the middle of the night for a shoulder to cry on or share a new band you found.You are strong, intellegent, beautiful, driven, passionate, and you light up a room with your smile.You deserve better, and I know one day you'll find him.UpdateGave her the card....She LOVED IT!
I would not personally want a cad that acknowledged that I "could be a mother if only..." Can you eliminate the I know you had two abortions reference, and send the rest? I know your intent is awesome, but ... It just does not sit well.
Oh i wasnt putting that in there! She mentioned that she would like something of aknowledgement from "him" at least, but i have no confidence that he will do that or anything. I just wanted her to get something...
Send it random unexpected day -- that's even cooler!
I was kinda thinking the same, I may just stick it in the mail today. And i left the "mothers day" part out as well and simply stated " you deserve aknowledgement today "
They're in a section labeled "Blank Cards." You write that in.




How many non-health related abortions are there post 20 weeks anyway?
So, they're ready to make a fund for all the people who fall through the cracks and don't get the exception, for all of their medical bills, right?  Oh wait, they don't care about things like that.  It doesn't matter that many problems aren't discovered until the anatomy scan at 18-20 weeks, apparently.  There aren't that many people who need them this late, but the people who need them, really need them, and can't afford to have a doctor waffle or have to go through extra hoops.  It's inhumane.

And all they're going to do is cause more abortions because they're against widely accessible birth control.

Whenever privileged white women talk about being anti-abortion, I just show them pictures of ugly black babies and ask if they want to take care of them.
WTF
Since 1973, abortion has reduced the black population by over 25%.
The black population in America has steadily risen, that didn't change after 1973.  Women, including black women, were having abortions long before it became legal.  Abortion doesn't reduce a population, it just keeps more people from being born.  The same way birth control has not reduced the worlds population.  It has only slowed the growth a little and lead to a better quality of life and planned, wanted pregnancies. Also black babies aren't any uglier than any other baby.  That is just a ridiculous, racist statement.
Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/African_Americans HelperBot v1.1 /r/HelperBot_ I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 63726
Yeah but if it wasn't due to planned parenthood the rise wouldc be higher
So what?  The black population has grown regardless, we have more than enough people as it is, and now people can choose the family size that works for them.
I know. That's why I support planned parenthood.
But so would the rest of the population?

This is the best tl;dr I could make, original reduced by 94%. (I'm a bot) Extended Summary | FAQ | Theory | Feedback | Top keywords: women#1 abortion#2 drug#3 Help#4 medical#5

Take note of the hash tags
Whenever privileged white women talk about being anti-abortion, I just show them pictures of ugly black babies and ask if they want to take care of them.
This would fit in well on /r/forwardsfromgrandma

Trump Thinks This Is Pro-Life? PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti — When President Trump and his (male) aides sit at a conference table deciding to cut off money to women’s health programs abroad, they call it a “pro-life” move. Yet here in Haiti, I’ll tell you the result: Impoverished women suffer ghastly injuries and excruciating deaths. Washington’s new women’s health policies should be called “pro-death.” When women and girls don’t have access to family planning and reproductive health care, they’re more likely to suffer pelvic organ prolapses, in which the bladder, uterus or bowel may protrude from the vagina. Or they suffer a fistula, a childbirth injury that leaves them leaking urine or feces, stinking and ostracized, and sometimes unable to walk. Women with prolapses or fistulas sit in their huts, humiliated, wondering if they are cursed, waiting to die. In a room here in the Haitian capital, women with cervical and breast cancer wait for nurses to examine their ulcerated bodies. Beyond their almost unbearable physical pain is their mortification that they smell of rotting flesh, and in some cases incontinence. They are heroic in their quiet refusal to give up. It’s not that these horrific conditions are caused by U.S. policy, but Trump is now halting all funds for many organizations working tirelessly to prevent this suffering. First came the “global gag rule,” ending funding to overseas health aid groups linked in some way to abortion, including counseling that mentions it as an option. The latest is that Trump just cut every penny the U.S. provides the United Nations Population Fund. This organization has nothing to do with abortions but is a central player in the global effort to fight for women’s health. “If the U.N. Population Fund has less money, more impoverished women in Haiti will die,” said Holdie Fleurilus, a nurse at Innovating Health International, which runs the cancer center I visited. Across town, Dr. Raymond Fleurimon, the medical director of the Isaïe Jeanty Maternity Hospital, was equally blunt: “If U.N.F.P.A. is out of the game,” he said, using the initials of the fund’s old name, “this maternity ward will collapse, it’ll be completely dysfunctional, and more women will die.” “What a nightmare,” warned Dr. Rahel Nardos, a women’s health expert, cautioning that less money for the fund meant more prolapses and fistulas. Republicans pushed to cut off the money because they think the fund colludes with China’s government in forced abortions there. But I lived in China for years, reporting extensively on the subject — and the critics have it all wrong. Yes, China has relied on forced sterilizations and forced abortions. The U.N. Population Fund initially was oblivious, and in 1983 it stupidly gave a gold medal to the Chinese official overseeing forced abortions. But that’s history, and for decades the fund has put strong pressure on China to end the coerced abortions. Moreover, the fund persuaded China in 1992 to switch to a more effective IUD, averting half a million abortions a year. Over the years, that’s 12 million abortions the Population Fund has prevented there. Can any anti-abortion group match that? Those affected by Trump’s cutoff of funds for women’s health are people like Darling Leonce, a pregnant 16-year-old I met when she showed up for a prenatal exam at a one-day clinic set up in a remote part of southeastern Haiti. The clinic was supported by the U.N. Population Fund, and it was the first interaction Darling had ever had with a doctor or nurse in her life. Darling never went to school, can’t read or write, and had never heard of birth control. Yet here she received her first-ever physical exam and was encouraged to deliver in a hospital rather than in her village. A nurse coached her on breast-feeding, gave her prenatal vitamins and acquainted her with contraception. “Choose your partner carefully, and don’t have a kid just because you have a boyfriend,” the nurse advised. Politicians in Washington don’t have a clue about the hideous things that happen when women are marginalized and health care is unavailable. What the Population Fund does is help girls like Darling avoid unwanted pregnancies and the nightmare of a fistula, a prolapse or cancer. That’s why The Lancet medical journal called Trump’s cutoff of funds “misogyny.” Oh, and on abortion — one more thing. When contraception is unavailable, people find ways to get abortions even where it’s illegal, as it is here. On my way back to the capital from the one-day clinic, I stopped at a pharmacy in a small town and asked for misoprostol, an abortion drug. For $15, the sales clerk handed over more than enough pills for an abortion. The birth control provided by the U.N. Population Fund averted more than 3.7 million abortions last year alone, health advocates say. So if you’re against abortion, you should support the U.N. Population Fund, not try to destroy it. Yet a group of blundering men in the Trump administration posture as moral leaders, and the result is that women in places like Haiti will suffer fistulas, prolapses and agonizing deaths in childbirth or from cervical cancer. Some of these women will be humiliated by the failures of their flesh, but the real shame belongs to sanctimonious zealots in Washington who don’t have a clue what they’re doing. And this is pro-life? NY Times articles have 26 tracking cookies and 10 tracking scripts. This comment has none.
Thank you, forbes-bot!
Whenever privileged white people talk about being anti-abortion, I just show them pictures of ugly black babies and ask if they want to take care of them.
Part of the reason it annoys me when they say "but you could just put them up for adoption" is because it's really hard to actually get adopted if the baby's not white with no disabilities and sicknesses. A lot of kids stay in that sometimes abusive system until adulthood.
Yep. Plus adopting ugly black babies was in fashion in the early 2000s. But not any more.
Yeah, it's sad. There's some pretty messed up stuff in the system too which makes it worse
What do you mean?
That's one way of converting pro life to pro choice, show them that the lives they are saving are low-tier.
That sounds very similar to "useless eaters."  Treating some lives are second-rate is always a slippery slope.
That's one way of converting pro life to pro choice, show them that the lives they are saving are low-tier.


That's a really nice thought, but all the anti-choicers that hang around harassing people where I escort are also against all the things that would actually reduce abortions. Their ideal birth control pill is an aspirin between the knees and their concept of healthcare centers around the idea that giving up a hypothetical $700 iPhone will somehow allow you to pay $70000 of medical bills.
Correct me if I'm wrong (please forgive me for being nosy), but did you say that you escort women to a women's health clinic? I've heard about people having that job and I applaud you for doing such a considerate thing for people, if I am correct in assuming that you do indeed have that job. (Sorry if my comment sounds weird, I'm just trying to make it sound as polite as possible.)
I volunteer as a patient escort a couple of times a month, yes. I started back when the Supreme Court struck down the buffer zone in Massachusetts. I've met a lot of great people doing it—it's definitely worthwhile checking out if there's a clinic in your area.
It's hardly a paradox.  It just shows their lies for what they are.  If they really cared about keeping fetuses alive, they would support the policies that have been proven to reduce unwanted pregnancies and abortions.  Contraception, more welfare, decreased social stigma, etc.  They do none of this and in fact consistently support the things that actually increase abortions.  This betrays their true motive- controlling and oppressing women.
What things increase abortion?
Limiting access to contraception, taking money away from social programs like free lunch, daycare/preschool, fits stamps, etc. Basically most women get abortions for financial reasons. Any with more reliable birth control easily accessible you get fewer unwanted pregnancies.
What about lowering adoption costs?
I don't see any research about that.  Generally, my understanding is that adoption is free/profitable for the birth mother.  Abortion would be the more expensive option for her, so I don't see any reason why adoption costs would effect her decision.
I mean less expensive for adoptive parents, to encourage more to adopt.
There's no shortage of people who want to adopt white infants.  The problem is that people don't want to adopt older children, non-white children, or children with disabilities.  These kids are already "cheap" to adopt, and sometimes the state even pays the adoptive parents a food or housing allowance.  The fetuses being aborted are more likely to have disabilities or be non-white, so I don't think making adoption cheaper would change anything, at least not in a positive way.
Do you think the racial\disability disparity of abortion should be changed somehow?
I think it's a symptom of a racist, ableist society and if we address that maybe there'd be more demand for those babies.  I also would like to have better access to contraception and abortion in poor, largely non-white neighborhoods and further advances in prenatal medicine to detect and treat disabilities early on.  Oh, and of course single payer healthcare to make all of this free :)  But that seems like a long shot!
It could be argued that wanting more non-white abortions is part of that racist society.





They chose to have sex though?
I choose to own a house.  It doesn't mean someone has the right to be in it if I don't want them to be.
Which is why you put a lock on the door or don't own the house if you don't want to risk people coming in.
What if I'm having a house party and one of my friends makes a dumb decision to let their loser friend in while I'm off taking a piss?  I guess I shouldn't be having a house party in the first place.  Life is serious business.
Well if the choice is between letting the loser friend stay for 9 months or killing them, yeah maybe you shouldn't have a house party, or you should take some protection.
And what happens if the lock breaks? I should just let them stay for nine months and possibly permanently wreck my house?
If your lock works 99% of the time the. Fine, go ahead and shoot.
I'm sorry, I think we need to discuss a lot of specifics about his lock.  How many pins are acceptable in the lock?  Does it need to be a deadbolt?
If you're bothering to use it I think its fine.
So do you believe that in all cases of properly used birth control that has failed, abortion should be permitted when it is sought in a timely manner?

Consent to have sex is not consent for pregnancy and childbirth .
If you're protecting yourself adequately then sure, if you're not protected then it is.
There is always the risk of contraceptive failure though, even sterilisation can fail.
Sure.
So childbirth is a way of punishing women for not "adequately" protecting themselves? Because if you make exceptions for when abortions are and are not allowed, it's not about the fetus: it's about the woman. If it was about the fetus, abortion would never be acceptable. What you're saying is that women who don't use good enough protection for your standards deserve to be punished with financial, emotional, and physical destruction up to and including death.
Yeah I think everyone should be using protection if they don't want kids. What a ridiculous suggestion. Using a condom properly isn't exactly a high standard. Why are you having unprotected sex if you don't want a kid? I don't live in a third world country where getting pregnant results in emotional, financial or physical "destruction." If you have a health issue that might be exacerbated during a pregnancy, I feel that's a fair reason to have an abortion but again, why are you having unprotected sex? A condom and the pill is a lot cheaper than an abortion.
What a ridiculous attempt at deflection. If you'll notice, what I asked was this: "So childbirth is a way of punishing women for not "adequately" protecting themselves?" Added emphasis to make sure you didn't miss it this time. What is adequate to you? Why do you make the standards? Why should I care what you think about my birth control method? Also, what about mistakes? We're all human, we all make mistakes sometimes. If a woman is a few hours late on her BC pill, does she deserve to be forced to risk her life, sanity, and financial stability to give birth to a baby she didn't want? Is that her punishment? Using BC is a normal expectation, yes. I expect people to use protection if they're having sex. But that doesn't mean that BC is perfect (especially condoms, which are notoriously unreliable), and it certainly doesn't mean people are perfect. And still brings us back to the essential question: why do you believe women deserve to be punished so harshly for having BC that failed or for making a mistake? Why do you think that is okay? Who said anything about having unprotected sex regularly despite not wanting a kid? Wasn't me. You either don't live on Earth, which is impressive, or you are woefully ill-informed about what pregnancy is, which is more likely. Pregnancy is expensive, first. It's less expensive in countries with good healthcare, but still more expensive than not being pregnant. Being forced into pregnancy and childbirth is emotionally traumatizing. If you can't see that then I'm not sure what to tell you. And grab a middle school health textbook to get the basics on how destructive it can be physically. And how do I know if I have a health issue like that until it's too late? Sure, I might know. But many women don't find out about it until they're pregnant. Sometimes not until they are pretty far along. Who the fuck are you to tell people when it's "fair" for them to get an abortion, anyway? Again: what makes your opinion so important? Like I said before: it's not about the fetus for you, it's about the woman. For some reason, you believe that women who have sex fun should be punished for that. I won't speculate why here, but the why doesn't really matter. It's an unreasonable, sexist position to have no matter why you hold it. No shit. But those two methods are both pretty unreliable, no other BC is 100% effective, people make mistakes, and cost isn't even the issue here. The issue is that women deserve access to abortion because it is a part of women's healthcare.
Because it's my idea? You know I'm not actually a law maker? I don't have the power to make these changes. But yes you got me, if somehow this was made into law and could be enforced, I alone could not judge these women. So, if she's on birth control but it fails? I would say that's adequate protection. She is using it and the odds of a pregnancy resulting from missing a pill by a few hours are quite low. Yes, 98% reliability is "notoriously unreliable." If birth control fails I have no problem with them getting an abortion but this is a very easy mistake to avoid. I don't think anyone who's pregnant should risk that, regardless of whether she wants the baby or not. If you're the sort of person who's mental health may be risked as a result of a pregnancy, you should be personally responsible and not get pregnant. The instances of women who risk their life to give birth are incredibly rare. Most first world countries have services have free prenatal and postnatal healthcare and if you're in a country where this isn't the case, take some precautions. Unless they're a rape victim, they aren't being forced into it. If they chose not to use protection they weren't forced into it. Pick up any primary school health textbook and get to know the basics of sex. And if they are the victim of rape I fully support them having the choice. And how do I know if I have a health issue like that until it's too late? Sure, I might know. But many women don't find out about it until they're pregnant. Sometimes not until they are pretty far along. So? You can't have an abortion before you're pregnant. What's your point? Who the fuck are you to tell people when it's "fair" for them to get an abortion, anyway? Again: what makes your opinion so important? Who the fuck are you to tell people it's ok to have an abortion? Oh, wait,this is reddit. Nobody's opinion matters here. The only thing that makes my opinion important you, because you took the time to respond. You could ignore me. But then someone might be wrong on the internet. Can't have that. What gave you that impression? I'm happy for anyone to have sex with consenting adults. I just think they should use protection. This whole, "You think this because you hate women" bullshit is just that, bullshit. It's not an argument, it's an attack on someone's character that's completely baseless, Because I disagree with you I'm sexist? Ok? But those two methods are both pretty unreliable, no other BC is 100% effective, people make mistakes, and cost isn't even the issue here. The issue is that women deserve access to abortion because it is a part of women's healthcare. Maybe they're unreliable if you can't figure out how to unroll a condom or swallow a pill at dinner every night. Luckily they have classes for that now. Condoms are 98% effective. The pill is 99% effective if used at the same time everyday. https://www.plannedparenthood.org/learn/birth-control/birth-control-pill/how-effective-is-the-birth-control-pill Using them together properly gives you odds of 0.02% of getting pregnant.
Is it not your position that this should be law? And if so, who could judge women for what they choose to do with their own bodies? Who is qualified to do that, if not a woman and her doctor? And if she misses a pill altogether? Has a drug interaction? Used an even less effective form, like withdrawal? Didn't use anything at all? You're not supposed to use the perfect use statistics. Try 92% effectiveness. I wouldn't call birth control failure "easy to avoid," either: it's just something that happens. It is easy to avoid having unprotected sex, but again: people make mistakes. Being pregnant is risking that, especially when it's unwanted and the woman was not prepared for it.You don't know if your mental health is at risk until you're actually experiencing it. You might expect things to be fine and, suddenly, they're not. I agree that if you don't want to become pregnant you should take reasonable precautions, but I don't agree that "don't get pregnant" is the only way to do that. Getting an abortion for a pregnancy you didn't want is part of being personally responsible.You also can't know how complicated your pregnancy will be until you've given birth. Why ask someone to take that chance at all? Even if it's rare, it's still their life we're talking about. Birth control is a precaution, and it should be used any time someone is having sex and doesn't want a pregnancy. However, abortion is an important option to have in the event that the BC wasn't effective enough, failed, or wasn't used. And in my country we have to go to the ER for free healthcare and it's rushed and doesn't cover everything a pregnant woman needs because they'll just tell you to see your primary care or gynecologist, even if you don't have one and can't afford to get one. If a woman becomes pregnant and is barred from getting an abortion because it's illegal, they are being forced to continue the pregnancy. How does that not make sense to you?No one chooses for their BC to fail, and sometimes oversight happens and people have sex without protection. Doesn't mean they deserve an unwanted pregnancy.In what primary school health textbook do they talk about how a woman isn't being forced to continue a pregnancy if they are barred from ending the pregnancy by their government...? What? My point is that, if I were to find out I was pregnant, I would want to be able to get an abortion because I can't know how it's going to turn out. I won't know if it's dangerous until I have either finished delivering the baby or the pregnancy becomes dangerous. At that point, the damage is done. I'd rather opt out of that before it begins. You're right, I'm totally overstepping my boundaries telling people it's okay to want to take their medical care into their own hands and that it's okay to, you know, make decisions about their body.You don't see how that's different than telling someone that, because you disapprove, they shouldn't be allowed to have access to some medical care?It's not about being wrong on the internet; I don't give a fuck how wrong someone is on the internet. But as far as I know, you're a real person. And groups of real people like you are jeopardizing my ability to take care of my own body. And that kinda sucks. What gave me the impression that you believe women deserve to be punished for using BC that is less effective than you approve of or not using it? Uh... maybe the fact that you believe those women should be forced through an unwanted pregnancy despite any risk to their health? I thought I made that pretty clear.And I don't believe I said you hated women. Yes, I said your position is sexist. Because it is, unless you think men should experience a similar ordeal when they don't use protection (pain, emotional turmoil, fined thousands of dollars, possibly having to raise a child they never wanted). In that case, it's still fucked up and wrong, but I'll take back the accusation that it's sexist. Again, that is a "perfect use" statistic, which is theoretical. The "actual use" statistics are condoms are 85% effective and BC pills are 92% effective.
No I don't think something completely unenforcable should be law. I think this should be societies moral standard. This isn't very complicated. If you aren't using birth control, I don't think you should be allowed to get an abortion. If you are protecting yourself you can get one. There's no reason to deliberately not take your pill if you dont want to get pregnant. If you read the link I posted you'll see the reasons why the percentage is lowered, it's entirely user error. Skipping days or vomitting the pill back up. We all have phones now, put an alarm on it reminding you to take your pill. Bam 98% effective. This is all fair enough, but is not common, they're exceptions not the rule and would fall under an abortion for health reasons, not an elective abortion. Yes I'm ok with getting an abortion because your health is significantly affected. This argument doesn't really make sense when the solution is ending a life that will soon develop into a person. In my country there's plenty of free services that will provide the healthcare that is required. Yours should too, generally they simply require you to wait a long time to see the DR. That's fine they're being forced to continue it but they weren't forced to start it if they aren't using birth control. That's fine and I'm fine with those people getting abortions. Honestly I believe it does. If they don't want it don't have unprotected sex. Condoms aren't hard to use and they're not expensive. You're right. I'm totally overstepping my boundaries telling people it's not ok to end a human life because they're Lazy. If you're being responsible about sex, how am I jeopardizing your health? When have I said anything about approving of birth control? Unless we are talking about pulling out, which we all know doesn't work, most methods of birth control work very well. Most of the time there's no real risk to their health. There's a chance sure, but the odds are not high. I support child support, so yep I do support that. That's if you use them wrong. It's really easy to use them right.
Oh, thank god. That means your position is simply ridiculous rather than dangerous. Also, lol at the idea that childbirth and child support are equally dangerous. You don't really believe that do you?

Getting pregnant when you do not want a child can absolutely cause emotional distress. And are you saying that pregnancy and childbirth aren't costly? Regarding "destruction", women still die in childbirth - yes even in high GDP nations. Those deaths are also on the rise. Even those who don't can have complications that forever alter their bodies and/or health.
So wear a condom.
Because condoms are 100% safe, right? /s
Condoms aren't 100% effective. Might as well just not wear one?
Lol where did I say that? Your reply assumed there was a simple solution - just wearing a condom. I pointed out the fact that they actually have a high enough failure rate that most people use them as a backup method, or use something as a backup to them. They aren't failsafe, so "just wear a condom" doesn't solve it.
Thank goodness that these are the rules that everybody else having sex understands and agrees with.
Most people agree that if you're raped then an abortion is reasonable.
I certainly hope that's the case. I've talked with people before who believe that abortion is evil and counts as murder no matter how the baby was concieved, which is just awful in my opinion.


Hello /r/prochoice! We have come to your subreddit because we are trying to connect with activists in different areas to learn what your cyber security risks are and how you mitigate them.Using this information, we are creating a tool that will recommend different methods, practices, apps, and software that best fit the needs of specific activists.Please take our survey to help us create this tool:http://cups.cs.cmu.edu/courses/ups-sp17/activism.htmlHere is the research lab at Carnegie Mellon sponsoring the research: http://cups.cs.cmu.edu/Here is the course this research is a project for: http://cups.cs.cmu.edu/courses/ups-sp17/Security and Participation:Anonymity: Giving an email address at the end of the survey is completely optional. The survey has been designed so that your email address cannot be connected to the responses you give. Your privacy and security are important to us.Compensation: If you choose to give an email you will be entered into a random drawing for one of six $50 Amazon gift cards.Benefit to You: At the end of the survey you can opt in to receiving information about the tool we are building to help activists protect themselves. Even if you do not opt-in we will update this post with the prototype. All research results will be fully available to everyone - no paywalls or pay-to-play products.Privacy: Only researchers on this project will see the anonymous raw data. Raw data is not shared with anyone.Time: 15-20 minutesEligibility: Activists 18 years of age or older. No prior knowledge is required.Questions and comments can be directed to researchers via the email on the survey link, or through Reddit. If you find a bug let us know!Thank you in advance for your participation!

I know a guy who would disagree with a whole hell of a lot of this ganoosh

I would have some amount of respect for these GOP anti-choice crusaders if they were at least HONEST about why they feel the need to defund PP and limit access to birth control and abortion services as much as they possibly can. It has nothing to do with money or the absurd idea that they care so deeply about babies. And the fact that they think we're all stupid enough to believe their pure unadulterated BULLSHIT pisses me off more than anything.
I do believe we should crowdfund instead of relying on the government. TRAP laws are the real way politicians are trying to take away our right to choose.
It's not his right to take away her right to choose. She still has the right to "choose" Planned Parenthood. No one is physically restraining her from walking to a PP clinic, or attempting to prohibit her from doing so. Her question is therefore misleadingly presumptuous.

Sex isn't a lifestyle choice. Everyone has sex. If you truly only cared about the taxes you would be enthusiastically for widely available contraceptives since having unwanted children traps poor people in a cycle of poverty and keeps them on welfare programmes.

it's not murder til it's born, it's a lump of cells you are deleting.
You're a lump of cells too.
I'm a sentient lump of cells.

Only 20? What's the point with that small a sample size.
"20 participants were randomly selected from the /r/prochoice subreddit."


"This year’s vigils are led by Michael Loretz. As he says at every possible opportunity, his group are “against violence in all forms" . I wonder if he is vegan or at least vegetarian.
Doubt it.
I should of added the /s on my post.
It's either should HAVE or should**'VE**, but never should OF. See Grammar Errors for more information.
That about sums it up.
I'm a bot, bleep, bloop. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit: [/r/newzealand] Stare-off on Dominion Rd: anti-abortion vs pro-choice at Auckland’s 40 Days for Life vigil • r/prochoice If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads. (Info / ^Contact) 

To compare the actual suffering of a human being to the discontinuation of the development of a mentally inactive organism is absolutely disgusting.It'd honestly be more accurate to say that BANNING abortions is more comparable to slavery.Pro-lifers are fighting to force a woman to suffer. 9 months of their life, stolen. Their bodies, harmed. Their future and life plans, drastically altered. Their social lives, potentially decimated. Not to mention the emotional damage that comes a long with all of it.It's like sentencing someone to prison for 9 months, forcing them to take hormones, forcing them to gain a ton of weight, stealing $30,000-$50,000 (assuming they give the baby up), then shoving a foot ball in their vagina, and then telling them to deal with it and get over it. Forcing someone to have a child is like forcing someone to have sex. Sex (like child birth), when consensual, can be a positive thing. However, when you force it on someone, it can be a terrifying, life altering experience.
"It'd honestly be more accurate to say that BANNING abortions is more comparable to slavery." Definitely agree.  Forcing a woman to stay pregnant, give birth, and possibly be a mother against her will is barbaric, and certainly the equivalent of slavery in my book.
Yes yes yes yes yes.
I've heard even worse. There are people who call abortion genocide and compare it to the Holocaust. I don't know how people can think that way.
Religion. Someone on this sub once mentioned a book to me, "The Righteous Mind: Why Good People Are Divided by Politics and Religion" by Jonathan Haidt. It talks a lot about moral psychology, and it really was just so insightful to the way that people think and why. I highly recommend it. A quote I think this kind of sums it up. Some peoples moral beliefs prevent them from acknowledging the existence or validity of other beliefs and become incapable of respecting other peoples decisions, even if those decisions do not actually cause any measurable form of suffering to anyone/thing.
I completely agree.  Their confusion is due to the fact that they believe, in many cases, that personhood starts at conception.  They seem to think that just because something has a complete set of human DNA, that it deserves legal rights.  Unlike slavery, no suffering would come to most terminated fetuses.  But that point seems lost on pro-lifers.  They seem not to care that things like viability, the ability to feel pain, etc. have not occurred right at conception.  Their position seems completely superstitious, and lacking a scientific and ethical basis.  It seems to just be, "Oh, this must be a human being (ignoring that all factors of life have not been achieved), therefore it's wrong to kill it."  They have no ability to differentiate between analogies that use living people as victims, like slavery.  And yes, that's very insulting.  But they seem to be willfully ignorant and willing to do mental gymnastics to get around the obvious flaws in their logic that personhood just can't be established, and having elements of being human is not enough to be a person and be granted full legal rights.
Even if the fetus does have legal rights, those legal rights would not extend to the non-consensual use of someone else's body.
Couldn't have said it better myself! It just sucks because the pro choice position in no way, shape, or form puts pro lifers at risk of suffering, yet the pro life position puts all women at risk of suffering. Just because they wouldn't be effected by a ban on abortions, they are incapable of empathizing with someone who would. Instead they "empathize" with something that literally gives zero shits on the matter. If these people would stop being so ignorant and self righteous we could improve sex education, make birth control more accessible, and make abortions so efficient that people would eventually either lose the need for them, or be more likely to get them in the earliest of stages.
Uneducated morons say a lot of things.
Not to mention that a lot of female slaves were victims of rape by their masters and then forced to carry the baby. It's almost like not being able to control your own body is inherently oppressive hhhmm
But... forcing one person to gestate another IS slavery. I don't see how anyone could possibly argue anything else. They could argue that slavery is justified to prevent "murder", but there's no way forcing someone to go through pregnancy isn't slavery. It's probably not in the pro-torture camp's best interests to make slavery out to be an atrocity, since they're advocating for its reinstatement.
Banning abortion is more comparable to slavery, now I have truly heard it all. You can't choose to have sex and claim to retain bodily autonomy at the same time. When someone engages in sexual activity, they are engaging in activity that is geared towards creating a human life utterly dependent on them for survival. You can't engage in that activity and than pretend you have the right to 'withdraw' your consent to that life at any time during pregnancy. Your argument is purely emotional. Prolifers are fighting to restrict women. Couldn't possibly because abortion kills a human being. Maybe they should accept that actions have consequences, and accept that they must learn to deal with it. http://www.johnstonsarchive.net/policy/abortion/abreasons.html Less than 1% of all abortions are preformed because of rape. This argument does nothing to invalidate arguments on why abortion should be illegal. You just compared being raped to being forced to take consequences for your actions.
I don't know what kind of sex your having, but the kind of sex I have is much more fun than that. I'm definitely not trying to get a "human life utterly dependent on [me]" when I have sex. I'm trying to have some fun, connect with my fiance, and... well, no, that's it actually. Have fun and connect. No babies. Well, personally, I wouldn't have consented to being pregnant in the first place. So that fetus never would have had my consent to live in my uterus. But you know the great thing about abortion? Even if I had consented to it living there, I could still withdraw my consent during the pregnancy. It's like sex: if I say I want to have sex, start having sex, and then realize I don't want to continue, I can stop. Because something changed and I'm not feeling it anymore. Or because something changed and I can't do it anymore, even if I want to. Some anti-choicers are the way they are because, for some reason, they honestly believe fetuses deserve more protection than grown women. I say that's ridiculous, but you're right: some of them honestly do believe abortion is murder and that is why they are anti-choice. But let's be honest here. Other anti-choicers simply believe women deserve to be punished for having consensual sex for fun or they believe their god/s told them to think that way or they just don't know any better. I'd say most anti-choicers, honestly, but that's anecdotal. Yes, and they/we have. The fact is, sex does have consequences, and we all need to realize that and deal with them as they come. One consequence of sex is emotional attachment, so what do you do? You evaluate, before having sex with someone, how it might affect your emotions and you proceed or not based on the answer to that question. Another is STI's, so you get tested regularly and wear condoms with new partners. And another consequence is pregnancy, so you use birth control and you have a plan. You decide if you're going to abort, give it up for adoption, or keep it, and you have something in place for your decision. Why do people not understand that getting an abortion is dealing with a pregnancy? I mean, it is important though. Rape victims still exist, even if they make up a small portion of abortions being performed. They're still important. They compared one non-consensual bodily invasion with another non-consensual bodily invasion. Seems pretty solid to me.

Because no one is forced by law to have an abortion? ffs Might as well say: "Why do pro-choice people always act as if women feel forced to say no to sex, isn't it MORE likely that women are usually forced to actually resist sex because they did not want it due to societal pressures? Why do so many pro choice people talk about how wrong it is for a woman to be forced to have sex, but don't argue against forcing women to resist sex?"
We do bring it up, actually.  For example, the clinic I volunteer at offers a full range of options to women who are counseled as patients, from parenting to adoption to abortion, so that the women are sure to make an informed decision and minimize the risk of regret.  Furthermore, many of us fight for social programs that would actually allow women to parent, and believe that keeping a child with its biological family is a good default option unless a fully informed patient chooses otherwise.  We think the more options a pregnant woman has, the better.  So we absolutely do bring it up in a clinical context.  If we emphasize forced birth, it's because our reproductive rights are being legally attacked.  We would be outraged at forced abortions, make no mistake.
I am incredibly glad to hear that.
Idk do you have a source on that? Because I'd wager it isn't more likely. It does happen, and it's a tragedy when it does. No one should be forced to undergo an abortion they don't wish to undergo, just as no one should be forced to carry a child they don't want to term, but I would say that since tons of states are putting more restrictions and plenty of countries outright ban abortion that the number of women forced to continue their pregnancies (or resort to drastic measures) far, far our number the women forced to abort their wanted fetuses.

It makes me so happy to know that 58 million women didn't have to suffer because of the selfish, ignorant beliefs of others. It's good when the person wasn't forced to give birth. No. A fetus does not begin to move until around 18-22 weeks. It does not develop the neurological pathways to the brain until 7 months, and even then, there is no evidence that the fetus's brain even does anything with the information that is sent to it. The idea of humanity is not being "warped", it is being freed. Freed from the dogma and self righteous folk who believe that humans are sacred and that anything belonging to the human species is special, even if it has the mental capabilities of a rock.

Says you. Plenty of people cannot deal with or raise children so fuck off with that no greater joy bullshit.
They shouldn't be obligated to abstain from sex or raise a child just because you don't like the idea of their actions. that is YOUR belief. That is in no way, shape, or form a fact. I can only speak for myself, but I think that there is so much more to life than having a child. I am so thankful to live in a time where a woman is not confined to the role of housewife. I love school, and I want a long and prosperous education. And I enjoy my freedom more than anything. I will one day have kids (probably), but once I am closer to 40, and after I have gathered enough wisdom, life experience, and resources to do so properly. Even then, I will not birth my own children, rather I will adopt. I think it is so selfish that people continue to have children when there are so many children without parents or proper love and care. I also think it is so extremely irresponsible and selfish that people continue to reproduce when (1) they cannot support a child emotionally or financially and (2) the human population is growing out of control and increasing the pace at which we destroy out planet. Free to pursue a life beyond the traditional roles of motherhood. I personally think that the traditional life of marriage and raising a child is shallow, and that is why I am not immediately interested in it. I want to invest my energy in something larger than that. I feel my responsibility is to this earth, not to some egg that has yet to be fertilized inside of me.

Do you think all women should have children ?  How do you view childfree people who have no desire to be parents? I feel that your views on abortion may be  linked to how you think women should lead their lives rather than concern for the ' unborn baby'.
"Do you think all women should have children ? How do you view childfree people who have no desire to be parents? I feel that your views on abortion may be linked to how you think women should lead their lives rather than concern for the ' unborn baby'." I think they are morons who will regret it and become bitter pills with too much free time when they are older. Especially if they use the world is overpopulated as a reason to not have children. Sure, I also think that abortion and sex before marriage is bad for society. People should not engage in those activities in general for a better world. Caring about the unborn and effects of sexual immorality are not mutually exclusive reasons for being against abortion/sexualization of every day life, they go hand in hand actually.
People who decide not to have children are morons? . Thanks for  insulting myself and my husband !  I am 44 and have known since I was 8 that I never wanted to be a parent , when will the bitterness kick in then?
Hopefully never but to me, I think you two are missing out.
Your entiltled to your opinions , but I hope you don't mention them in real life to childfree or infertile couples .
Do you really think that the next generation of humans is best being born to and raised by "idiots who couldn't keep it in their pants"?
I'm actually impressed. It took 12 whole hours for you to bust out the "they deserve it" excuse.
"The birth of a human being is always a good thing"? Even when the mother dies in childbirth (especially childbirth she was forced into)? Or isn't emotionally prepared for a child and makes for a terrible mother? Or when a woman is raped and forced to carry her rapist's child to term and ends up abusing or seriously neglecting it because of that negative association? Or a mentally handicapped individuals who is forced into motherhood through rape when they cannot even care for themselves? Or 9 year old little girls forced to give birth to a child and being irreversibly damaged because of it? What about when a child is born into extreme poverty, or women in an abusive relationships where their partner forced them to become pregnant to trap them? And then they turn their abuse on that child as well? Those are always good things? Always?

Because every woman, even women who didn't want to be pregnant in the first place who are forced to give birth and die in the process is totally stoked about it? Including young girls and rape victims? See I have a health condition that means if I got pregnant it would not in any way be a good or positive thing, for me or the fetus/potential life. So if I was forced to give birth by having my right to abort taking away from me (assuming my birth control fails) it would not be positive, by no stretch of the imagination. It would do serious damage to me and definitely end very badly for the fetus. A born, sentient person who's parent died in child birth is not a pox upon this earth, but the people that demanded the parent be forced to go through with it and die sure are. Unborn people are often miscarried. Do you cry over every miscarriage? Even the ones that happen before anyone could possible know the person was pregnant? Potential life is just potential, it has no rights and it sure has hell doesn't override my rights. I give a shit about living, sentient people who are suffering, and I care about those people millions of times more than I would ever care about a potential life. If a person is actively suffering because some pro-lifers get all bent out of shape about something that could very easily be miscarried before anyone knew it was there then pro-lifers need to get their priorities straight because it's down right disgusting that they think they have the right to demand what happens to people that are capable of suffering, and demand that they suffer more, just to spare their damn feelings. It's fine to feel the loss of a potential, but at some point your being ridiculous and selfish. A person's right to their body, their safety, their health and their happiness is way way more important than a potential person possibly making it all the way through to birth.
I am absolutely sure that the majority of abortions are totally due to medical/serious emotional issues from physical abuse....(sarcasm) When I argue about abortion I am arguing against the abortion done out of convenience. Ones gotten out of the idea that a child will get in the way of ones happiness as you put it. It won't and I would argue a child would increase ones happiness. So if someone is mentally retarded they are worth less than a regular person? Is a persons worth determined by their mental state? People die in their sleep all the time, the potential for life and death does not begin or end after birth.
No but enough of them are to be included in the conversation, because most pro-lifers don't care about the circumstances, who will die or who will suffer as long as the little baby gets born who cares who dies in the process. But hell let's just talk about women who just don't want to be pregnant. Plenty of women get manipulated and guilted out of abortions to later die during labor. Plenty more don't die but suffer serious complications and permanent changes to their bodies too. And plenty more aren't fit to be mothers. For a woman who doesn't wish to be a parent she can give her child up for adoption, but for a woman who doesn't wish to be pregnant her option is abortion. And that is her right. It really doesn't matter if it bothers you, we have a right to bodily autonomy and a non-sentient, non-autonomous fetus does not have the right to override my rights, just like no other living sentient, autonomous person has that right either. It increased your happiness. Congratulations but I would be fucking miserable as a parent. Especially a parent to a child I never even wanted in the first place. Just because you have your personal lived experiences does NOT mean those experience applies to everyone 100% of the time. I fucking love pickled eggs but my SO will straight up vomit if he was forced to eat one. But pickled eggs 100% increase my happiness therefor I must shove these eggs down his throat right? Because it will definitely make him happy. Also, I never ever said that mentally handicapped individuals aren't sentient (you seem to think that though?). And mentally handicapped people are also autonomous of other human beings. A fetus is neither. Because of that a fetus has no rights, but mentally handicapped people sure as hell do have rights and I will defend their rights, including their right to bodily autonomy when includes abortions.
There are varying degrees of mental disability that would lead one to argue a seriously challenged person is not sentient. While they would have sentience, they would not be able to behave with a type of logical reasoning one would apply to a normal person. I never set a persons worth to  be based off their mental capabilities, you did. By your definition, people in comas have no rights.
No we actually haven't discussed my exact beliefs on sentience and autonomy, you're making an assumption, but I'll go ahead and explain it for you. A fetus is non sentient and non autonomous. It cannot survive outside of the womb. It has no rights and it absolutely have no right to override anyone else's rights to bodily autonomy. A person's right to bodily autonomy means that they can remove the fetus from their body for whatever reason, that is their right. A severely handicapped person is both sentient and autonomous. They don't need to be physically attached to another human being to live and therefor have all the same rights afforded to them as any other person and is just as much a person as anyone else. A person in a coma is also autonomous of other people, while they may rely on donated blood to sustain life or machines to keep blood pumping or keep them breathing they are not encroaching on anyone's bodily autonomy. Now if we ran out of the blood that coma patient needed and no one volunteered to provide it we also would not be allowed to force anyone to donate the blood against their will. If that mean the coma patient will die then that's how it is, but no one is required to donate thanks to that nifty thing called bodily autonomy. Coma patients also don't have control over how long their kept in a coma, same with people in a vegetive state. Typically someone else gets the right to decide when life support is removed, just the same way a person gets the right to have a fetus removed from her body if she no longer wants it there. Should all coma patients have their life support removed? That's up to the people who get to make that call, but if someone wants to pull the plug on a family member I don't get to throw a fit about it because of their "potential to wake up", even if I happen to think caring and paying for a coma patient is the greatest joy in life.
Fetuses can feel sensations and interact with their mothers movements. Women can even start to feel their babies as early as 16 weeks!! I am curious, if the person who was supposed to give blood to keep the coma patient alive was responsible for putting them in that coma, should they be required to keep that person alive out of moral obligation?
A fetus does not develop a brain stem until 24 weeks (which is also the earliest a fetus is viable outside of the womb) so I don't give half a crap if a person can feel it wiggle. No. Just because a person had an accident or even committed a crime does not mean we get to strip them of their most basic human rights, that would be down right barbaric.

EVERY abortion can be justified on health grounds. I live in a country where the law explicitly requires this. The law says "a doctor can approve an abortion if continuing the pregnancy would be more dangerous to health than terminating it." This equates to abortion on demand, because there is not a single case of pregnancy anywhere in the world where abortion carried out by a professional doesn't reduce a woman's chance of death, injury, or disability.
I am a married woman. My husband and I do not want children (we've been together for 14 years and discussed it at length). I like children, I just met my 4 month old cousin yesterday and loved her. But I do not want children of my own, and if I ever became pregnant I would abort. We have many reasons for not wanting children, some for our own personal happiness, yes, but largely because we both struggle with mental health problems that we don't want to pass on, and also because we don't want to contribute to the overpopulation of this planet. We have thought long and hard and made what I think is a wise decision in this case, as opposed to people who just have kids without ever really thinking about it because that's what people are supposed to do. Have you ever seen the movie Idiocracy? When uneducated, poor people have baby after baby it is not good for society. We would all be better off and have more resources to share is people would stop reproducing out of contol.
Just out of curiosity, how do you define "a good thing"?
Something that a person derives satisfaction and pleasure from. I wholeheartedly believe that having children is one of the greatest things a person can ever do in their lives.
If they want a child it is. If they don't want a child it is not. It is literally the same as sex. It is a beautiful thing if it is wanted, it is traumatic if it is not.
The disassociation of sex with having children has resulted in the dehumanization and desensitization of people from one another in general. Objectification  and the use of others for personal satisfaction overrides personal responsibility and care for others.
That's a poor view of sex. It's not just personal satisfaction, but your partner's satisfaction, and being intimate with and closer to that person. Even if you don't want to make a baby.
There is nothing that can bring two people together, seriously together, in a way that is not just physical, than having a baby.
Do you understand that not everyone wants children. Like is that a concept that has ever occurred to you? Additionally, do you understand that even couples that do want children, they typically have 2.5 and then 98% of their sexual encounters are not at all about making a baby?
"Like is that a concept that has ever occurred to you?" Can I ask you, what do these people fill their time with, what do they work for? "Additionally, do you understand that even couples that do want children, they typically have 2.5 and then 98% of their sexual encounters are not at all about making a baby?" I was explicitly talking about people in casual sexual relationships in my previous posts. Couples with kids are closer than ones without, I don't know why you are bring up stupid unnecessary statements like this. Could you elaborate on whatever point you are trying to make because I don't see it.
Their careers, their relationships with their partner, friends, and family, traveling the world, volunteering for charity, doing whatever the fuck they want. Not everyone wants to have children. It's fine that you do, and that most people do but don't presume to think that everyone has to have the same goals as you. My point is that not all sex is about making babies. Sex is something that gives intimacy with the person you find attractive whether you marry and have babies or don't. I'm sorry if that offends you. Even if sex is casual, unless you're a total asshole you're still caring about your partner's pleasure, not only yourself.

Do you realize that a large portion of abortions are done by married women who already have children, for the sake of their children having a better life and/or a healthy mother?
Having children does not necessarily mean a couple becomes closer, it can also have negative affects https://www.google.co.uk/amp/amp.timeinc.net/fortune/2016/05/09/mothers-marriage-parenthood/%3Fsource%3Ddam

"America is not about forcing your beliefs on another person" Are you trying to force this belief on me? You are actually telling me to leave the country because my beliefs don't conform to your idea of what.........America is? I thought we were talking about the comparison of abortion to genocide and the morality of our sexual choices. I never tried to force my views on anyone but I did ask questions and state my position on certain things, you know, discussing stuff. "Fuck off with your anti-freedom, anti-privacy, anti-bodily rights bullshit" And I hope you have a wonderful time with your Hypocrisy, closed-mindedness, and recklessness.

Those comments where really interesting, thanks for posting . Which books would you recommend that cover morality ? It's interesting that you think Eastern cultures are more family orientated , ,as they don't seem to have the opposition to abortion that the US and some parts of Europe have . Abortion is legal in China and Japan and don't believe they have an influential prolife movement .
Birth is a bloody, painful, dangerous experience that can be fatal. Creating another new person on a planet with 7 billion inhabitants is nowhere near positive enough to justify forcing someone to risk their life and permanently damage their body.
Lately there's been a lot of talk about abortion. I'm sure the argument dates back centuries about whether it's morally right or wrong. In this era of social media however, every one from around the world is able to shove their opinions down someone else's throat with just a click of a button. I was always pro choice but I always said that I would never choose that option. Then, as if the universe was testing my morality, it happened. At 18 years old, I was pregnant. I started my period when I was 13 years old like most women. After a year the cramps started to become very painful. So painful I would curl up into a ball on my bathroom floor and miss days of school at a time. I tried everything I could to relieve the pain; pills, pads, exercise, but nothing worked. When I was 16 I started dating my current boyfriend. When we started dating I just KNEW. He was the one I would lose my virginity too. I convinced my mom to let me get birth control pills. Which wasn't hard, for some reason my parents just always did everything I wanted, especially my mom. Practically ignored my 3 brothers just to make sure I had a good life. Anyways, I had friends from school tell me that the pill made their cramps almost completely disappear. So no cramps? No possibility of getting pregnant? Cool. done deal. Only catch was that you had to go to the DR and get a Pap smear done. There was NO way I was about to let a COMPLETE stranger stick their fingers up me. HELL. NO. So we get to the Dr and she asks why I want the pills and I tell her about all the pain and crying and missed school. She asks if I'm sexually active and I tell her no, but I was seeing a guy. At this point I had absolutely no idea what a Pap smear was, and no idea that the Dr needed to do it for the BC. Oh and I'm on my period. THANKS MOM FOR TELLING ME. The look on my Dr's face when she asks me to put on the gown and I tell her " okay but I'm on my period so I have to keep my underwear on." She laughed at me and said" you had no idea about any of this did you?" UH NO. I DID NOT. She was nice and wrote me the prescription anyway. She also talked my mom into getting me these fancy chewable tablets that tasted like mints. They were 50$ A MONTH. Yeah we switched over to a different brand pretty quickly. After a month or two of being on the pill something wonderful happened. My cramps were GONE. Not a single knife in my gut. Also as a bonus my period only lasted 3 days instead of 7! Of course there were side effects too. Zits. Everywhere. Mood swings that could give you whip lash and an overall lack of energy. But I didn't care. I wasn't curled up in a ball crying once a month so I was happy. Fast forward a year and my prescription has run out and I need to make a new Dr appointment. So I go in, prepared this time for what they need to do. When I got there I completely panicked and lied to the Dr. I told her I was on my period. IT WORKED. I got another prescription and didn't have to have someone shove their fingers up my vagina. So a few more years go by and my boyfriend and I started getting pretty serious. Life at home was pretty rough after my parents split up. After I graduated high school I spent more and more time at his place. Eventually his parents just told me to stay, and I did. I had forgotten what it felt like to be part of a family. They were FAR from normal, but it was better than dealing with a drunk father and a self loathing mother who didn't have a clue how the world worked. It took my dad two weeks to notice I had moved out. And when he finally figured it out all he could say was " oh. So you can't go pick up your brothers then?"  I was tired of being the adult in the house. Always making sure my brothers had what they needed. I figured if I left then maybe they would finally get the attention they deserved. That never happened. My brothers kept on lashing out, doing dumber and dumber things to try to get some attention and everything with them just went to shit. I'll never forget my grandmother telling me " you're the only one I have any hope for" And yet she didn't do anything to stop it either. It's like every one in my family just decided that I was going to be great and successful so screw the rest of them. 1 out of 4 ain't bad! I was under so much pressure that I quit college because I was so afraid to fail. I told my dad that I had enrolled in online classes at a tech college in my boyfriends town, but I never signed the paperwork. After a couple of months at my boyfriends place I decided to find a job. I hated living their rent free and wanted to earn my keep. His parents objected but it made me feel better. I started working at this pizza shop and was dreading it because I've always been bad with people. Talking to customers absolutely terrified me but no one else would hire an 18 year old with no job history. My bosses ended up being INCREDIBLE. They pushed me out of my comfort zone and taught me so many valuable things. For the first time in a long time I started to feel like I belonged somewhere. Of course they couldn't beat the social awkwardness out of me that easily. Eventually my birth control prescription ran out and it was time for the dreaded Pap smear. So like any responsible adult would do, I avoided it. My pills ran out and I avoided going to get more. New town, new doctor, no way. A few months go by and I started noticing weird things about my body. Certain smells would make me sick. I would get diarrhea then become constipated. Car rides made me dizzy. My boobs felt like over inflated balloons. It was a never ending cycle for weeks! I figured it was my body trying to get used to not having the added hormones. Of course the first thing you always do when you feel sick is google search the symptoms. Pregnancy kept popping up but I thought there is no way. We were always careful, and we always used protection. The more I researched the more I realized how much my symptoms matched the signs. So I went to Walmart and bought a test. Thank GOD for self check out. I could never look someone in the face while purchasing it. I read online that your best bet for an accurate reading was to use it just after waking up in the morning. That's when your urine has the most concentrated amount of hormones. So the next morning I go to the bathroom, careful to make sure no one sees what I have in my hand. I peed on the stick and waited for the longest 2 minutes of my life. And there is was. Staring back at me. Those two little pink lines deciding the rest of my future. I couldn't find the words to tell my boyfriend so I took a picture of the test and texted it to him. I cried. I knew he didn't want a baby. I didn't want a baby either. I mean I did, still do, just not then. Having a baby is supposed to be this magical wonderful thing and all I could think about was how hard he was working for his dreams. And I couldn't take that from him. We talked about adoption but both realized that we would be too selfish to give it up once it was born. One thing was certain, NO ONE could ever know. His parents are great but also VERY old fashioned. If they knew they would have forced us to get married and practically take over our entire lives. My family could never know.. I couldn't bare the thought of disappointing them. I couldn't look them in the eyes and tell them that I fucked up. That their amazing, wonderful, talented daughter had just ruined her future. I couldn't bare the thought of them looking at me the way they look at my brothers. So we decided to get an abortion. I needed to do it is fast as I could for fear of changing my mind. So we found a clinic and made the appointment. It was about a week away and my schedule at work had already been set. I tried to get someone to swap off my shift but I had no luck. I hated the thought of lying to the people who did nothing but care for me, but there's no way I could tell them the truth. It was a half lie, I told them I had to go to the doctor for an outpatient procedure in regards to my uterus. All you have to do is mention the word period and men go running. Told them I was getting a test done and couldn't work that Friday. And of course they understood and helped me out, but it killed me. If they knew what I was about to do would they still care about me? Would they look at me with disappointment in their eyes? There's no way I could find out. The procedure was expensive. $450. We thought about seeing if health insurance covered it but I was too afraid that it could get back to my dad somehow so we were on our own. Luckily when I turned 18 my sister helped me apply for a student credit card. The cash advance limit was only $300 so we took the rest from our savings. I remember the day VERY clearly. It was April 9th, 2013. It was a Friday and the trees had begun a bloom. Nature was giving birth to a new season and I was about to destroy something beautiful. We pull up to the clinic and there's a swarm of soccer moms with picket signs yelling at everyone about going to hell. I felt like I was going to be sick. What if someone recognized me at work? Would they say something? We got out of the car and they immediately started screaming at me to get back in. So I held my head up, kept my eyes straight and tried not to look like they were tearing my soul apart. We walk in and there's a few other woman in the waiting room. A few older, a few younger, and one girl who was sitting with her mom. There's no doubt in my mind that my mom would've been there with me if I had asked, but I couldn't destroy the image she had of me being her perfect little girl. We sat for 1/2 an hour and I get called back. I took one last look at my boyfriend, searching for anything in his eyes that he wanted me to stop. All I could see was worry, so I squeezed his hand and told him I would be alright and back I went. They started with an ultrasound to determine how far along I was. 10 weeks. They asked if I wanted to see but I refused. I didn't want to risk getting attached to it. Next I went into a room with a counselor who asked me why I wanted to get an abortion. I told her that I was too young, and wasn't ready to be a mom. She asked me again if I was sure this is what I wanted. I nodded and she had me sign some papers. I went to a room where they asked me to change out of my clothes and into a gown. I was to keep my underwear on but to put on a sanitary pad for the bleeding after. I went to a room where they gave me a cup of pills. They wanted to know if I wanted the pain pills but I refused them. I felt like I didn't deserve them, like I needed to be punished. I took them and sat in a different waiting room with a few other girls. I recognized the girl who's mom was with her and sat nearby. No one talked, but I felt we all had a silent understanding of why we were there. No judgements. The girl from the lobby asked me how old I was. I said I was 18 and she laughed a little. It's no secret that I look like a 12 year old and I don't blame her for not believing me. I could tell she took the pain pills, her words were slurring. Suddenly a sharp pain started in my abdomen. It got worse and worse until I was laying on my side in the chair, digging my nails into the arm rests. I kept telling myself that it was nothing, that I was used to my cramps being like this every month. The pain kept spreading and made its way to my back, legs and chest. The nurse called my name and I went into the back room. I could feel the panic rising and kept trying to calm myself but I couldn't keep my hands from shaking as they asked me to remove my underwear. I got into the table and put my feet in the stirrups. The doctor comes in and it's an older Indian guy. I spent the last 3 YEARS avoiding having a doctor sticking their hands in my lady parts and some random 40 year old man is about to stick a machine inside me. I lay back and close my eyes, just wanting it to be over with already. I'm still shaking and the nurse grabs my hand to help calm me down. I feel cold metal slide inside me and the nurse tells me that I'm going to feel a lot of pressure in just a moment. Suddenly I could feel a huge snap inside me, and the pain was unlike anything I have ever felt. It felt as if a hot spike had been pushed through my abdomen, and was being twisted in circles. I screamed and the nurse tried to calm me down. I wondered if the girls in the waiting area could hear me. I hoped my boyfriend couldn't hear me. A few seconds later the machine was done and the doctor removed it from inside me. The nurse leaned me forward and I puked. Luckily she had gotten the tray in front of me in time. Her and the doctor left the room and I sat there on the table crying and shaking. After a few minutes the nurse brought me to another waiting room that had beds. I lied there for a while just staring at the ceiling. A nurse came by and asked if I had a ride home. I told her my boyfriend was in the lobby and she said I could go. When I walked out they had me sign some discharge papers and I could see my ultrasound picture in my file. I wanted to see it so badly but forced myself to look away. We walked out of the clinic and I could see the group of protesters looking at us. I lowered my head in shame and got in the car. For the next few days all I did was lay on the bed and cry. HOW could I have done that. Why did I destroy something that was a part of me, a part of him. Whenever my boyfriend came home from work I would pretend I was okay. I didn't want him to feel guilty. I couldn't let him feel what I was feeling. My boobs started leaking discharge and it was like a steady reminder of what I had done. When I went back to work I couldn't look my boss in the eye when he asked how everything was. The nurse told me not to do any heavy lifting but I did it anyway, as if I was trying to punish myself. The next couple of weeks I was an emotional wreck. When the hormones finally left my system it wasn't as bad but the guilt was still eating away at me. At that moment I made a promise to myself. That I would DO something with my life. For years I've said I would open a bakery but never actually had any thought about learning to do it. I made it my mission in life to make sure that my boyfriend and I would make something of ourselves, and follow our dreams. Because if we don't, then what in the world did I just go through that for?Today is April 9th, 2017. 4 years to the date and I'm finally ready to tell my story. I've replayed that day dozens and dozens of times in my head. Every single time I can still feel the all of the pain. But I made a promise. I made a promise to my unborn  child that I would build a life for the children that I will have. Every time that I felt like giving up, when I felt like things were just way too hard, I reminded myself " your child gave ITS LIFE so you could make one". So here I am, 4 years later and I'm now the General manager of that little pizza shop. I over see 25 employees who all look to me to guide them. My bosses have plans for me to buy into my own franchise. As I am writing this, I'm sitting in a car with him on our way to Florida for a big business convention. They tell me all the time how far I've come, and how proud they are of me. And all it does is make me work harder. I'm finally at a point in my life where I can start to forgive myself, and even feel proud of myself for all that I've accomplished. I purchased a spot in our local market and have started to sell my baked goods, that was last week. And I'm never going to stop. I will never stop growing and building this life I have created. Not for me, but for my children's future.Most prolifers just think that a woman uses abortion as a way to clean up their mess. They think that if abortion is legal then woman will just sleep around whenever with whoever because hey! You can just get an abortion so who cares! And they LOVE to throw around their religion like they're the holiest piece of shit to ever walk the planet. There is NOTHING righteous about calling a woman a baby murderer as she's walking across a parking lot. Getting an abortion was the HARDEST decision I have ever had to make. A friend asked me once "what was the worst thing I had ever done?" I had to dodge the question, and I simply said " I can't tell you" because it still HURTS. But I do not, and will not ever regret my decision. I had a CHOICE. And I CHOSE to give my future children the life they deserved. I was unable to provide that at the time.  I firmly believe that every woman and man for that matter has a right to plan their own future. That's the problem, pro choice doesn't mean you HAVE to get an abortion. It means that a woman should have the right to CHOOSE if she wants too. I NEVER in my life thought I would be capable of doing it myself, but I do not have a RIGHT to tell another woman that she can't. So before you post that anti- abortion blog, before you pick up that protest sign, STOP and THINK about that woman. What is going on in her life that she feels she can't have a family? You can't see her face behind the computer screen but her eyes are full of fear and guilt. You try so hard to make the world believe that you're a good person. You spend so much time feeding on woman's guilt that you turn into the monster you're trying to destroy. I'm not writing this to bully ProLifers into changing their beliefs. I'm writing this so other woman can find some comfort in knowing that there is someone who understands what they have gone through. What they're still going through, and will be going through for the rest of their life. So pick your head up, and go out and do something with your life. DONT let that sacrifice be for nothing.
OP.. your first paragraph really needs some breaks. I had a friend get pregnant for the same reason, trying to avoid that. That's why I recommend everyone go to PP since they don't require it (and it shouldn't be required) for birth control.
Wow, gut wrenching story for sure. I had no idea what was truly involved in a abortion.... I am glad to hear that you have had a positive life after the procedure, best of luck  with everything moving forward.
Hello! I would like to open a thread for debating about abortion.I'm Pro-Life and think that abortion except for very rare cases is immoral(regardless of whether it's legal or not) and as always, we consolidate our beliefs when they are challenged and rather than circle jerk for validation of beliefs I think it's more useful to engage in a good debate.Here's my argumentation. Objectively and scientifically, fetuses are living human beings. Not only are they life, but human life, and more than human life they are human beings. Not fully matured of course, just as children aren't fully matured human beings, in fact, I'm not even a fully matured human being either, but they are a human being at a certain stage in their development.So, the issue isn't about a fetus being a human being but about personhood. But personhood is a philosophical concept, not a scientific one, and there's no consensus about it, I've asked multiple people and they've all given me all sorts of answers. And they've all been incomplete. Even if I were to personally agree with them, how can we be sure that we're not just agreeing on an opinion but rather on fact? I don't think we can. Historically whenever human beings have been robbed(or reduced) of their personhood it has served as a justification for genocide or other types of atrocities based on the current scientific or philosophical knowledge of the time. There are multiple cases throughout history and to my knowledge there hasn't been a single case were we have been right about it. Cases from slavery, to religious groups, to ethnical groups, to races, to older people, to the mentally ill, to even children. Some propose certain markers for personhood which I can personally see some merit to, but the issue is that for example, for consciousness... well, children before around 18 months haven't developed consciousness. Does this mean that they are not persons and as they are not persons I can kill them wantonly? The issue of personhood is an interesting one and a complex one and it should be approached carefully. Let's say we encounter an alien civilization... then I agree we should tackle on the subject of personhood. But that's because the stakes are high. In the abortion debate, the stakes aren't really that high in the majority of cases. It's basically human life/genocide vs convenience/irresponsibility. Morally those two shouldn't be conflated. It's like saying, "well, if Uncle Thomas dies I'll inherit $1,000 USD. So, can I kill him? Is it a person?". Sure, the question in that case has an answer, but why even make the question in the first place?Another angle is for some people to agree that the fetus has the same rights, but that the woman's right to choose is superior to the fetus's right to life. I'd say that there's a hierarchy of rights, not all rights have the same value and the right to life stands at the top of most(if not all) other rights. The mother chose to have sex, and there are natural(and good) consequences of sex: procreation. We all know of these consequences, and the risk of having sex, so if a woman has the right to choose sex, she also has the responsibility for the consequences of that action. I have the right to drink, but if I drink, get drunk and crash into someone, I'm responsible towards that person. We naturally and legally don't hold all rights equal so to that argument I'd say that the right of that other human being for whom you are responsible beats your right to choose. Also, if it weren't the case it would mean that the right to life of another human being rests on the arbitrary(that could go to an extreme of being a whim) choice of another person. Those two things also don't conflate.I appreciate response in advance and would like for people to consider the answers beforehand to see if a closely similar answer hasn't been posted in the thread before posting. I say that because my time is limited and these sort of threads tend to become extensive pretty fast.
If you think abortion is morally wrong then don't have one but don't presume to dictate to others what they should do with their bodies and lives.
If you want to convince him to do anything, which you must be trying to do, seeing as you commented on his post, understand his point of view. He sees this as people killing innocent people. If somebody was going around killing innocent people, wouldn't you protest it? Why is the holocaust so bad? Innocent people were murdered. A pro-lifer sees abortion the same way. You won't be able to change OP or his mind with a comment like yours
I won't change his mind with any comment just like he won't change mine. This is one issue where there is no middle ground.
Then why did you comment?

It's not an argument, it's a statement.
Well then you're countering arguments with statements. That has no place in a debate. If you're gonna give statements and don't back them up or not making an argument in a debate, then why are you even in the debate?
Nobody gives a shit about your debate. You're not going to sway any of the membership of this sub to your line of thinking. Do you think I'll be so thrilled by your "logic and reasoning" that I'd happily agree that I should be denied my bodily autonomy. Shove it.
You're not representing this sub too well. Show some kindness please
I don't care if I'm representing this sub well. This bullshit makes me furiously angry and I'm well past bothering with kindness.
People trying to protect what they see as babies makes you furious?
No, people trying to turn women into reproductive machines against their will makes me absolutely incandescent with rage.
Think about it though. To a pro-lifer, life of innocent baby > 9 months of freedom of mother who apparently made a mistake. I don't understand why I'm being downvoted for trying to point out the other side

Well then, if I'm no member of this sub is open for debate and changing their line of thinking or at least having their thoughts challenged then it says more about the members of the sub than me. I actually don't believe it to be so, but if that's how you view this sub, then you don't have it in a good light. No, I actually don't think there's gonna be a good conversation WITH YOU. That doesn't hold true to many other members of the sub, I see them as smart people, some with good arguments, and with willingness to engage in a productive exchange of ideas. It's probably a waste of time, but I'll try it. The reason you're not changing your view, is because you've validated your own thought process and reasoning concluding in that your bodily autonomy is king and towers above any other consideration. But our thoughts process and reasoning can be flawed, in fact, are very commonly flawed in a wide number of areas. The difference between a false belief and dogma is that dogma is unchallengeable, so if you're not accepting a challenge to your views, then you're having a dogmatic position.
Yeah, everybody else is the problem. It couldn't possibly be you.
What are you talking about? Not sure what you mean. Are you talking about the "if..it says more about the members of the sub than me?". That's the only part that could be remotely connected to what you said. If that's so, then remove the "I'm" part on the "if I'm" string. What I meant there is IF there's no member of the sub open for debate, then it's not a failure in my part or my reasoning rather the failure is in the attitude of closeness and dogmatism. BUT as I said, I know this isn't so, because of certain members I've had conversations with. But whatever, this is my last reply to you. It's clear you don't want to have a productive exchange of ideas. From your first response you indicated it and now you have shown me the proof.
LOL! It's not possible you're the one that's flawed? It's us? Haha you're so ridiculous. Thanks for giving me a good laugh you condescending pile. :)
Of course I'm flawed, we're all biased one way or another, that's why it's important to have a discussion, that's how people know that their thought process are flawed. But that ends if the other person isn't even open to have their thought processes challenged. That's the difference between me and you.
The thing is, you're not here to have a debate. You're here to try to convince us that we are wrong about women's rights. So why don't you stop wasting your time. Everyone here has already heard all of your anti-choice arguments and we're sticking with our rights. Nothing you say will convince us otherwise because we actually care about the rights of existing people, not a fantasy idea being a parasite in a women's uterus.
Interestingly your idea of a parasite is a fantasy as biologically it's not a parasite. I'm here to have a debate and to polish my own thought process and see if there are interesting ideas. I could say the same thing about your own side, but I'm the only one in this post that has changed their mind after hearing a previously unknown fact or argument, so I'd say it's your side that's unwilling to actually be challenged and open to be convinced. Not all have heard my anti-choice arguments. Some arguments that have been put forward for pro-choice are so weak that it's clear they haven't received a counter argument. If nothing I'll say CAN convince you, then it says more about you than me. As I have been convinced, it only shows your proud unwillingness to be convinced, so it's you who should stop wasting my time.

In all of those analogies, the victims are living, breathing PEOPLE.  There is no set point in time when a fetus becomes a person.  A fetus can't even feel pain until into the third trimester.  There is no set medical, legal, or ethical basis for personhood, especially in the first two trimesters when the vast majority of aboritons occur.  Therefore, comparing abortion to crimes that typically occur against living humans is not a proper set of analogies to use.  https://www.acog.org/-/media/Departments/Government-Relations-and-Outreach/FactAreImportFetalPain.pdf
There is no set point in time where any human becomes a person. There is no set medical, legal basis for personhood, it's a philosophical concept, and there's no consensus for personhood. It's an incomplete, gray-area concept that has been used wrongfully at all times in order to make way for atrocities. It all falls down to whether the baby is a person or not according to the pro-choicer. That's a dangerous thing to do. But let's go there. Give me a valid, complete criteria or set of criteria that makes a person a person and we can move from there
I am with you that the issue comes down to personhood.  But, you lost me after that.  No, it doesn't all fall down to whether the baby is a person according to the patient, because it still takes a doctor to perform the procedure.  For example, if I walked into my own doctor's office at 33 weeks and demanded an abortion, he would look at me like I had three heads and turn me around.  My only other option would be to try to spend tens of thousands of dollars for the possibility of finding a doctor who would do the procedure that late for no medical reason.  But, I wouldn't be doing that in the first place and I don't know any doctors who would allow it.  Most late term abortions happen to either preserve the life of the mother or to avoid fetal suffering before certain death.  So no, it isn't just up to me.  That being said, sometimes people do take things into their own hands, but that usually occurs in countries where abortion is not legal (although it's increasingly common in the U.S.).  In those countries, the abortion rate is actually higher than in countries where it's legal, just more women die. If you're actually interested in which policies work to reduce aboritons, then read the link below.  If you're here to find a concrete definition of personhood, you won't find it until you can get all scientists, all neurologists, all obstetricians, and all women to agree on the exact point in gestation when personhood occurs under all circumstances. I can't help you there. But I can say that no, it isn't just up to pro-choicers because we aren't the only patients.  Sometimes pro-lifers are patients.  And we all work with doctors.  So you'll just have to be okay with not getting a definition of personhood.  I guess that seems unsettling to you since you won't be able to legislate personhood without that definition. http://www.patheos.com/blogs/lovejoyfeminism/2012/10/how-i-lost-faith-in-the-pro-life-movement.html
But personhood is not a medical term. It's merely a philosophical concept. I agree with you that there is no concrete definition, which is precisely my point. Personhood can't be used to justify something as grave as the killing of another human being. The issue comes when pro-choicers use personhood as a tool to justify the killing of the fetus. That's when I say that no, personhood can't be used as a valid tool for it, because it's not even a complete tool. All the definitions people give me are incomplete, they later on add on the original definitions basing on certain arguments, but there's really no basis for it as you say, even less so medically. So a doctor can't say who's a person or who's not a person either other than on his own opinion. Neither can the mother or anyone else, that's precisely my point.
By the same logic, personhood can't be used as a tool to ban abortion.  If you can't prove that crimes are occurring to people, you shouldn't write a law.  You can't use the logic only to your purpose.  You're the one who wants to ban abortion so the burden is on you to prove, medically, and ethically, that a person is being destroyed.  Otherwise you have no basis for your proposed policies.  I don't think it's purely philosophical.  A 38 week fetus is a baby to me.  Again, it's different for everyone but by that point, most people agree.
That's because you're using the word person out of its context. In fact, how people even use person is out of its orginal context too, it's a deformation of the language. But as of now, person is equivalent to human being. 'Personhood' is a concept related to but outside of the definition of person as it's current use. When you say 'he raped an unconscious person', you don't mean 'he raped an individual who is unconscious but has feelings, consciousness, dreams, etc...' you mean 'he raped a human being' As I said, it seems I'm not getting my point across. Personhood is not a valid term, for either side. It's not a legal term or a medical term. That is, in the case of the unconscious rape, personhood doesn't come to the discussion either. That doesn't mean I won't be charged with rape both legally and ethically. It will be determined medically that a person was raped even though 'personhood' doesn't even enter the discussion. BTW, the burden of proof for the preserving of human life is not on my onus. The default position is a pregnancy coming to term. The thing is that we should preserve the life of human beings. I doubt any reasoning person would deny that. But then comes the hard part. Even those in an early developmental stage like fetuses or toddlers. You don't get to decide the value of someone's life based on your own convenience. It's true for babies who have no consciousness, sentience, or provide no inherent value to society and it's true for fetuses too.
It doesn't matter whether you call it personhood or human being to me.  The fact of the matter is that there is no basis for determining a fetus to be a human being, medically, legally, or ethically.  Some people consider it at conception, some consider when a heart beat occurs, some consider it when all of those conditions are met, plus the fetus can feel pain.  And yes, the reason that an unconscious rape does include personhood in the discussion by default, since it's obvious that all rape victims are people.  It doesn't matter what you call it, the fact is that you can't define when a fetus becomes a human being, and creating a law would require a concrete definition.  Just because it is personally revolting to you doesn't mean it should be banned.  Plastic surgery is personally revolting to me.  People have died from going under the knife for an elective procedure, or gotten infections, or regretted it.  But I still think it should be legal.  There's no ethical basis for me to say they can't do something with their own body, when there's no other victim (human being) that would be harmed.  Even if my religion was against plastic surgery, it should still not became law since we have freedom of religion and separation of church and state.
I just provided the basis for it to be a human being. The definition of a human being is an individual member of the homo sapiens species. A fetus is an individual member of the homo sapiens species. How can you say there's no basis for it if it literally fits the criteria for 'human being'? If you want to argue this argument you MUST argue against the definition of human being and basic biology. That's not a defensible OR reasonable position.

Also, you previously agreed that it does come down to personhood.  Now you're claiming that is not the right term.  Google "changing the goal post."
Not only did I agreed that it comes down to personhood, I'm the one that proposed it. Because pro-choicers are killing them on the basis that they aren't persons(some use different names but they really are referring to personhood). My defense to that position is that personhood as it stands it's not a good tool for deciding to kill other human beings. These positions aren't contradictory, I first describe the question and then answer it and say it's an invalid question. Do you see the difference?

SO is it philosophical or medical and scientific?  In another part of this thread you said "I think it's not a matter of philosophy or opinion but rather it's a scientific question."  But just above you wrote that it's not a medical term.  Why can't you get your story straight?
Why can't you read properly? When I said it's not a matter or philosophy or opinion I wasn't talking about personhood, was I? I was talking about the scientific question of is it a human being? Are you really not able to comprehend the difference?
You previously agreed the definition is not concrete in any context, therefore whether it's philosophical or scientific or some combination of is really beside the point, don't you think (since it isn't concrete in any case)?  Please follow the logic rather than getting bogged down in semantics.
As I said, I not only agreed that there is no concrete definition for personhood but I was the one that proposed it. When you're talking about the scientific point, I'm not talking about personhood but about whether a fetus is a living human being. See the difference between personhood and human being?

We can't make laws against everything that people think is immoral. We make laws based on what is best for the functioning of society. Lots of people think divorce is immoral, but of course it isn't illegal. It's better for society to not have unwanted babies being born if it can be prevented.
It's better for society to not kill its offspring. When talking about abortion pro-choicers give the onus not to what's best for society, but what's best for that individual person. It's better for society not to kill its own members if it can be prevented. It can be prevented. It follows it should be prevented. For a society it's better to have unwanted babies than to have no babies. Abortion can be argued benefits the mother, but you'd be hardpressed to argue it benefits society. You might argue against people being raised on unwanted homes. But that would also include children. So, society should kill children that are in unwanted or conflicting homes? Another argument against yours is that for more societies, it benefits to trade in slavery. Does that mean that societies should trade in slavery?
Rampant reproduction is not good for any species. If we outstrip our resources we're all screwed. Babies being born to poor mothers who end up living off social programs do not benefit society.
This is the weak point in your argument.  Here are the weaknesses: There's an aspect of Pascal's wager in your argument -- if we could be wrong about personhood, why risk genocide?  This has the problem where there is a cost to denying abortion -- a cost to women with undesired pregnancies.  By ignoring that cost*, you avoid needing to assign a probability to the wager. To support your Pascal's wager argument, you make an appeal to precedent -- whenever a group has been denied personhood in the past, it's something society has later regretted.  I feel that sufficient things are different about fetuses that it does not constitute genocide. Your argument to reduce this distinction is an appeal to authority, "scientifically, fetuses are living human beings" -- this passes the buck to the word "being."  What you need to argue is why this definition of "human being" has moral weight.  What is it about fertilization that imbues a certain collection of atoms with the property that killing it is bad? *Correction, worse than ignoring that cost.  You lampshade it?  Dismiss it?  Round it down to zero? For somebody who is pregnant, the stakes are plenty high.  I've done late-term abortions for fetal anomalies and maternal cardiac conditions.  I've done second-trimester abortions on 14yo who took that long to seek care.  You can't round them out of your discussion. If you're going to dip your toes into "they don't really need an abortion," I'd like to ask that you answer these questions: At what percent risk of maternal death do you think an abortion should be allowed? At what percent risk of maternal permanent disability?  Feel free to provide answers for: Lifelong dialysis. Stroke. Incontinence. If you feel confident that your answer to these questions are generalizable -- that is, how comfortable you feel with these costs and risks is how comfortable other people should feel in their medical decision-making -- then you have a case. Otherwise stop rounding my patients down to "convenience/irresponsibility."
Thanks for your response. My familiarity with Pascal's wager is related to the whole God's existence debate. Why I view Pascal's wager as valid is because of probability and number of options. For example maybe a God exists but doesn't care if you believe in him or not, or maybe a God exists that will torture you only IF you believe in him, towards infinity. And because of the probability of a certain cause. In Pascal's wager as there are almost infinite number of possibilities there's also a low level of probability of any of those if treated as equal. It's different in this debate because there are only two options in the abortion debate: is it a person or isn't it a person. And then there's the probability issue. It's hard to measure because everyone has different standards of what is personhood. Appealing to precedent(history) is something smart to do. On a second read, I don't think you disagree with it, you only think that there are enough differences for the history to not be relevant. That's I think because you've already decided they aren't persons. So THIS time, they REALLY aren't persons. It's an appeal to authority in the relevant field. That's not fallacious, that's smart. "What is it about fertilization that imbues a certain collection of atoms with the property that killing it is bad?" That it's another human being. Another member of our species. Killing it causes damage to it. And that human life has inherent value. If you don't accept that human life has inherent value, then I don't wish going further. It would be like arguing with someone that says "there's no right and there's no wrong". I could pursue it further, but in my experience, it's not worth arguing with someone who holds those views. You could equally ask "why is torturing small children for pleasure is wrong?" and there is indeed an answer, but I have no interest in arguing with someone that really wonders that. In most cases the reason for abortion is not a medical one or one of risk. It's merely because of inconveniece or a change of lifestyle. Comparing the risk of that(even if it's imminent) against the fact of killing human lives is immoral and sets a bad precedent for the future. A human life that you are directly responsible for is more important than your lifestyle convenience... can we agree on that? The women who are considered "high-risk" is significantly low. And the actual number of maternal deaths is very very low compared to the number of births. It's not really very relevant to the abortion discussion. Let's say I agree that in all of those case abortion is not immoral and should be legal, it still leaves more than 90% of cases. I don't know who needs or not an abortion, that's a medical issue. Hence the term high-risk pregnancy. If a pregnancy is not deemed high risk by the medics, then I'll recognize their authority. If they deem it high risk, I'll also recognize their authority. "At what percent risk of maternal death do you think an abortion should be allowed?" That's a very good question. It's hard to know. For either side. I don't know exactly, but if your pregnancy is not high risk then I would say abortion should not be allowed. "At what percent risk of maternal permanent disability? Feel free to provide answers for: - Lifelong dialysis. - Stroke. - Incontinence." Same answer, although I would say it has to do with the harm. If your medic thinks that you're at risk, then it's ok to perform an abortion. At what percent risk would you take a flight? If there were a 90% chance of the plane crashing I doubt you would take it. But people are taking flights all the time. So there's a percentage of risk where they will take it and another one were they won't. Where's the exact percentage risk? I don't know. I know nothing about planes. But if by the relevant authorities that are experts on the subject deem a plane safe, then I have no issue flying on it. If they say "Woah! Careful", I won't. I can round overall abortion cases down to convenience and irresponsibility because that's what it boils down to. Around 3/4 of reasons women give for abortion are lifestyle changes, not medical complications. Things like "I haven't finished uni", "what will my parents say","the father and I don't get along". Of course minorities matter, but when we're talking about general subjects, we can talk about general facts and numbers. There will always be outliers to any type of data. Rape is considered to be bad, and yet there are women who have considered their rape to be a good thing. Does that mean that rape is good? No, rape is bad. You can round rapes to being "a bad thing"
Again with the appeal to authority.  The term "high-risk pregnancy" isn't a rigorous term.  The idea that abortions will be allowed for high-risk pregnancies and not allowed for others? Great.  I'm an obstetrician.  Everybody who is pregnant is at risk of future pelvic floor dysfunction as a result of carrying the pregnancy to term.  It is now okay to perform all abortions. I am glad that we have solved the problem. Other problems with your argument: Airplane: at what percent risk would I take the flight isn't the question.  It's at what percent risk would I ban people from leaving the flight before it took off because they determined the risk was not acceptable to them. Rape: this is a little like Godwin's law, with a side dish of me not seeing how it's relevant.  If you make an argument for banning all abortions, be prepared for me to talk about people it is going to affect. When you hedge to a life of the mother exception, be prepared to state what percent risk of death or permanent disability you think should be acceptable.
Do you know what appeal to authority means? You're actually against one of the fallacies that's complex and has different subcategories and is a "can be" a fallacy. It's not an appeal to authority if I recognize established medical authority as an authority ON that field. It would be an appeal to authority if I said to you, he's the head of a medical association so when he says it will rain it will rain. THATS an appeal to authority, not saying "the established medical consensus is this about the relevant field, so I'll accept that". What you're calling appeal to authority is knowledge and common sense. No, that would indeed be an appeal to authority. It seems you're not very familiar with the fallacy at all. Almost no other medical authority agrees with you that we should perform all abortions and you would have a personal agenda for pushing that, not just because you're pro choice but also because you're making a point to win in this conversation. So you're an unreliable authority. So no, we haven't solved the problem. Also, it's not a medic saying about high risk pregnancy in ALL pregnancies. Each woman's reliable doctor should consider her patient and with his relevant knowledge and expertise can make an appropriate call.
Great.  My call is that, for everybody who does not want to be pregnant, the risks and costs present in a typical pregnancy are too high.  This is not my point for this argument.  I live this. I mean, it's not like they'll happen if we don't perform them.  All (non-spontaneous) abortions do get performed. Or you mean nobody thinks we should abort all pregnancies?  I don't think that. This is confusing.  I counsel people with unplanned pregnancies very often.  More often than not, they decide they're going to continue it.  I'm not misrepresenting things for the purpose of this conversation. So... any doctor who believes in abortion on demand and without apology... is not a reliable doctor? Glad to hear your mind has changed.  I think there's a lot of room for thinking things are immoral but should be legal. I've been sloppy in my argument.  The way your argument dismissed the concerns of my patients as convenience ticked me off and I felt like ranting.  It still ticks me off, to be honest, and I don't think you should be surprised that "women for whom abortion is a reasonable decision are like women who enjoy rape" is going to move the discussion forward about as much as "well, you must be a bad doctor." You've mentioned the convenience thing at a couple points. Think of pregnancy as an investment.  A big investment of time, money, and energy with some medical risks. Now let's say you're deciding whether or not to keep a pregnancy.  These risks don't vary a lot for most women and, for young healthy women, are generally survivable.  In fact, you (you're deciding this) might be planning to undergo them later anyway! So what are the non-medical factors?  Support during the pregnancy, the degree to which the pregnancy will interfere with your other life plans, and whether or not this is the person with whom you want to have a baby.  Or, as you call it, "convenience." Let's say the convenience factors suck.  You're going to say, "it will throw off my studies, Chad is a jerk, and I'm five hundred miles from home.  Now is not the time." And people on the Internet will say, "oh, she's doing it for convenience!" But the convenience factors wouldn't matter if it weren't for the medical factors. If pregnancy didn't have a risk of making you tired and achey, nauseous and edematous, with frequent doctors' appointments, it wouldn't matter that you're a sophomore trying to get a double-major. The costs and risks of a pregnancy make it that most women don't want to have a lot of them in their life.  For example, having a lot of vaginal births is a risk factor for future pelvic floor disorders including incontinence.  Most women want a small number (if any).  If it weren't for that, it wouldn't matter that Chad is handsome, but not right for you or reliable as a father at this stage in his life. 20-25% of first-time labors end in Cesarean under optimal conditions (term, cephalic).  That's a one-in-four chance you're going to have a major abdominal surgery, no carrying anything heavier than a gallon of milk.  Throw in the risk of hemorrhage, the risk of complication at the time of cesarean, the risk of preeclampsia, stroke... The "convenience" factors are not separable from the medical costs of pregnancy.  They are only relevant because of the medical costs of pregnancy.  The reason that they're cited as a reason is that they're variable.  They are the swing state of the decision-making process.
I don't think I ever equated people for whom abortion is a reasonable decision as women enjoying rape. That is a gross misunderstanding, which could be because I didn't explain myself correctly or you didn't understand me correctly. Let me clarify, what I said(or at least meant to say) with the rape case, is that there are always exceptions and outliers for everything and outliers and exceptions matter, but they are not the rule. To put it in another way "Humans are bipedal living beings" is considered to be true. And yet, not ALL humans are bipedal, there are exceptions, and those people matter, but on a statistical discussion they are not relevant. I understand your point and I agree. The discomforts of pregnancy(Wikipedia term :P) are a big reason why pregnancy is a big issue and it's something to consider. Yet, there are other kind of discomforts non-health related at all to pregnancy that are a consideration for women having abortions, which are lifestyle changes AFTER birth, which of course involve taking care of the born baby. So it's true, discomforts of non-health issues can impacted directly by pregnancies and be a motivation for abortion, while other discomforts aren't impacted directly by pregnancy. I would say both are 'inconvenient' but to different degrees. It IS a matter of convenience as opposed to necessity, but it's different the convenience of having two functioning limbs to the convenience of sleeping with a good pillow compared to a bad one. As you're an expert on pregnancies and I trust your non-bias I'll accept many(if not all) of your statistics and numbers. It boils down to "why is a fetus different than a 1 year old kid". For example if for the fetus you have to leave university you think it's up to that person to decide whether or not to kill the fetus, but no reasonable person would agree that she would have the right to kill her 1 year old born kid. All of those considerations are trivial compared to the life of a human being. Yes, your 3 month old baby makes you stay up at nights, affects negatively on your health, you have to give it resources, etc.., but no one agrees that you can kill it even thought both the baby and the fetus are human beings. The big question is "why do you consider one to have the right to life and the other doesn't". Do you, as a doctor, disagree with the fetus being a living human being?
This is a response to a line. Makes it much easier to read. It is true that an early abortion performed in an appropriate medical setting is safer than carrying a pregnancy to term and delivering. So if a patient who conveniently spoke a little like a robot said to me, "my priority for whether I give birth to a baby or not is zero, I literally do not care, please advise me on what is best for my overall health," I would say, "an abortion is best for your overall health."* *With a couple of small caveats that are not overall relevant to our conversation. Of course, this rarely comes up, because most of the time people have strong views on whether or not they want to have a baby.  (Or don't want a baby, but "don't believe in abortion.") I never said huge risk.  I never characterized the magnitude of the risk, except to say that it is higher than the risks from an early routine abortion.  You are the one who has characterized the risk, by saying that it is too low to be a reason to have an abortion.  My counter is that it is up to each pregnant person to decide what their threshold for risk is. Let us drop the subject of your rape analogy. You were the one using "convenience" as a term to dismiss the motivations of women seeking abortion, as though other motivations would be more valid.  If you are now extending the term "convenience" to include the convenience of having two functioning limbs (I prefer four, myself), then I'm not sure how meaningful your original use of the term was. In your final paragraph you move the conversation away from the issue of maternal well-being and autonomy and on to the subject of personhood, as this conversation often goes. https://www.rcog.org.uk/globalassets/documents/guidelines/rcogfetalawarenesswpr0610.pdf Good background reading touches on relevant issues. There is a touch of a heap paradox in this.  Our language and our ideas are not naturally suited to things becoming people.  Let's take a step into science fiction -- imagine a universe of lifeforms with different consciousnesses and traits.  How do you decide what is People?  Here People means "it's bad to kill it; I don't want to kill it." Alternately, imagine science advancing to the point where we can be Dr. Frankenstein and assemble a molecule-by-molecule copy of a human, 3-d printing it.  When do you call this a Person?  Does it matter if you're printing from the head down or the feet up?  What if you're printing from the front back? I want a very generalizable definition of Person, and I feel it lies in awareness or consciousness. I can submit this to a couple of different tests, like anencephaly.  An anencephalic neonate is never aware.  I also think that it is never a person.  (Please note I do not speak like this to grieving parents -- if they feel that it is a person, treating it as such is an important part of respecting their grief.  They are grieving the baby they lost, and this baby lived in their dreams.  None of us interacts with the world; we interact with our ideas and our fantasies about the world around us, and in that way their baby was real and meaningful, forebrain or no forebrain.)  However, it is a human being. Conjoined twins, while biologically one organism, are two people.  However, they are also a single human being. A fully-developed fetus may be ready to be aware, but I believe the evidence supports that it has never been aware (I feel this evidence is very strong up to 20-24 weeks, and just regular strong after that.)  There are some big biochemical changes that happen at birth that, I believe, trigger the beginning of awareness.
I thought that's how I was answering. Must have been doing it wrong. I think then that it's important to address why you can kill a fetus and it's not murder and why you can't kill a born human in different stages of development and it's always murder. What justifies the one but no the other? This, as you says, moves the conversation towards what people call 'personhood' or that which has human rights(in this case). I believe we need to distinguish two uses of the word person person. I'd also have to note that the meaning of the word 'person'(both uses of the word person) are wrong. It's commonly used as a synonym for 'human being', but what 'person' really means is 'mask', that refers on theater to the masks actors made to represent a certain character. So even 'person' is badly employed; in a casual conversation it doesn't matter because we understand each other, but on such debates it's important to use the right terms or at least to express the right concepts. So I think the best word rather than 'person'(mask) is individual. Personhood is an interesting concept, but I don't think we can use it yet in such subjects such as abortion to accurately decide if something is murder or not(if an individual has rights or not) because it's not a valid tool given that it's not a real thing(it's not scientific as far as I know), it's a mere philosophical concept that's not yet fully formed and all individuals which have given me their own 'personal' criteria have given me an incomplete criteria that they later on have to amend(which is interesting because you can't amend death) and later on it falls down. You asked a generalization about what's a Person(as in who has human rights or not). A very general and universally accepted definition for it is whether an individual is a human being. Hence the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The only criteria for it to be protected by those Universal Human Rights is to be a human being, and the most basic of those rights is the right to life. That's why I dislike the subject of Personhood as it applies on this debate because the UHR was thought of precisely for similar cases not to happen. Personhood is not defined, it's subjective, everyone has a different set of criteria for it and they want to take the UHR of that individual human being on a weak philosophical concept. It's not different to Hutus massacring Tutsis by saying there weren't persons, although they were also individual human beings. On their own criteria of personhood, tutsi's didn't fit as 'real human', 'not persons', as 'cockroaches', which doesn't sound to far fetch to some pro-choicer's saying of a fetus not being a 'real human'(even though biologically they are), 'not persons', or 'parasites'. Both statements from Hutus and those pro-choicers were wrong and both are alienating the UHR of an individual human being based on their own weak concept of Personhood. That's why I don't like Personhood. If you are an individual human being you are protected by your Universal inalienable Human Rights. As it stands, I think it's undeniable that a fetus is an individual human being and hence is protected by the Universal Human Rights as stated by it's own declaration. 1.- The Declaration of Human Rights declares(rolling eyes at the redundancy) that all 'human beings'(as opposed to a subjective idea of Personhood) are protected by those rights. 2.- Fetuses are human beings. 3.- The Declaration of Human Rights protects the rights of fetuses. This is a logically valid on which if both premises are true the conclusion is irrefutably true also. As you've already accepted 2.- as true in and 1.- is a verifiable(and undeniable) fact then it's also logically sound and true. If you want to deny the fetus of it's rights you'd have to violate the Universal Human Rights.
I would like you to redo that response, for two reasons. First, No, I asked for a generalizable definition, not a generalization. I gave examples of an entity that is a human being which I think should not be considered a person, and a an entity that is one human being that I think should be considered two people.  Do you disagree with those examples? Second, I'm very fond of the universal declaration of human rights.  Your argument about it is bogus and it annoys me that you make it. No it does not.  Here is article 1: But it's also bogus because, if I didn't think fetuses were people, why would the linguistic choices of a 1948 document convince me otherwise?  Does the fact that they specified these rights apply to born human beings only convince you that I am right? I found your response quite frustrating and lacking the properties of a conversation that make me want to continue one.
A generalizable definition becomes a generalization, doesn't it? It's still a generalizable definition, so not sure why you object to it, other than semantics. I'm sorry. I misread the examples you put. They're interesting to the extreme and do give material to think. I don't think 'Personhood' is not something to explore, and it's usually shown with the example of what would we do if entered into contact with an alien species. I personally think it's associated with a higher cognitive power, alongside a greater sensibility, which grants human being a certain value, but of course not all human beings are like that, but we don't subtract 'Personhood' from those individuals, or as for example babies don't have that higher cognitive power or greater sensibility. We judge not the individuals but the species as worthy. And being the same species we protect our own, even if they don't have that value-ness given by that personhood. Because of that and the multiple criteria exposed as 'Personhood' and the flaw within them I think it's not a good tool, specially when we're dealing with serious issues such as murder. Specifically on your examples, as an 'anencephalic' neonate will never develop that higher cognitive power, should we protect it? I say yes, because it's still a member of the human species. Let's say that it's discovered he's anencephalic after being born. Can I kill it if I want to? That's why I say no. On the conjoined twins case it's also a fascinating scenario because of the possibilities and questions it provokes. Not sure what to say on that case. I would be lying if I have an answer to that, except to say it(they?) should be protected as well. While the two cases give two polar examples, and inspire questions, there is no definite answer to personhood and in our question of "Should we protect this human being?" does not provide a good and satisfying answer. You are right that the first article disavows unborn human beings by omission and so, my argument is incomplete. What is the purpose of those rights? I maintain that the essence of the rights is that there's dignity of human live based upon the value of the group(humanity), and that that value is inherent upon being human. That's why there was no exceptions to it and no requisite other than being human. The value(in the document referred also as dignity) was just on virtue of being human. That's why a 1 day old human being is protected by it. There's no difference between a T+1 seconds human being and a T-1 seconds human being(T being birth), so it's puzzling why the rights given by virtue of being human would apply to one and not the other. I was puzzled about that 1st article mention of 'born', because it doesn't make any sense in relation to the essence and purpose of that Declaration. I'm still studying but it seems that there was some discussion about it but unborn human beings were deemed not needing(contrary to not deserving) that protection(because the right to life is just one of those rights). Given that they were inside the womb and out of control, it was deemed unnecessary to include them as those rights couldn't be taken away. I wonder what makes you say so. I mean, you're free to do so, and if you don't wanna keep having this conversation it's fine by me, but I wonder why you say so. I've tried to be intellectually honest(which frankly, with the exception of a few members, your side hasn't been so in my opinion), and give reasons with justification. If you see my logic flawed and it seems I don't see that, believe me it's not because of dishonesty, but rather a disagreement, just as the disagreement I have with your own reasoning.

You have to deal with the consequences, sure, but at what level are you actually "responsible" for the victim of a car crash that was entirely your fault? Is a driver legally and morally obligated to donate whatever blood/organs/etc. are necessary to save the victim? No, of course not. Even if the victim of a car crash needs a kidney transplant and the driver and victim are a match, and even if it was risky for the driver to operate a car while intoxicated, the government is not going to force the driver to use a part of his body to keep the other person alive. And this is an adult, full-fledged bona-fide person with dreams, relationships and ambitions who we're letting die. There are actually plenty of cases where the "arbitrary" choice to sacrifice someone's right to bodily autonomy would save lives. Nevertheless, in cases like this, we as a society value bodily autonomy over saving a life, and so should we with abortion.
Also, drunk driving is always a bad choice.  Conceiving a pregnancy can be a good choice in which circumstances change quickly to make the context unfavorable (like get pregnant then get cheated on or laid off, or abused, for example).  Drunk driving isn't like that, unless you had to drive someone else to save their life and for some reason couldn't get an ambulance to come to you.  Sex and conception are much more highly nuanced.
That's totally true, but even if I were a sober driver who hit someone, I'm still accepting a certain risk by driving a car in the first place. The fact that the driver is drunk was just meant to emphasize that it really is their "fault" that the accident occurred, but the example can still be carried out with a sober driver. Either way, we don't force people (nor should we) to use part of their body to keep another person (or fetus) alive.
Well, where is the line indeed? Let's leave the legality aside as we're talking morality. Is that driver morally obliged to donate blood yes? At what point? Well, if it were a case of you have to do it to save the other life even if you die, morally you can make a strong case that it is the moral thing to do. But let's not go there, because we don't have to. The risk of pregnancy death is very low. So the mother isn't giving her life. The driver is certainly responsible to making lifestyle changes. Well, what if in order to pay for the rehab or hospitalization of the other individual he has to work extra time? Or give up certain privileges? Morally he's obliged to do so. Same with a pregnancy. I would say, if a woman's high-risk and there are health complications, then yes, she can abort. But those cases are very rare, so I'll concede those cases. Can we talk about the regular abortion case? The thing the mother will have to give up is not her life, but certain parts of her lifestyle. Same with the drunken driver. If you can admit the parallelism, we can talk about the other part which is about the "full-fledged bona-fide person"...
I wasn't talking about the driver giving up their life. I was talking about giving up their bodily autonomy, in the form of being forced to donate a kidney. Even if the victim is on the verge of death, and the driver would only face the inconvenience/anxiety/risks of the surgery because they don't actually even need their second kidney, we do not force the driver to give up a kidney or take it from them without their consent. The point of this example is to show that we do not (and should not) force a person to use a part of his or her body to keep another person alive. Similarly, we should not force a woman to use part of her body to keep someone else (a fetus) alive.
I'm not familiar with the law in your locality. But different places have different laws and sometimes those laws contradict with the ones of different localities. I'd rather talk about what ought to be rather than what is in a certain locality. In many places abortion is illegal, so a person in that place could argue that that is indeed what they force a woman to do. Morally/Ethically that driver should face up that inconvenience and save the other person because the driver is directly responsible and the cause for that other individual's condition. Up to what point? Well we could argue about that, but facing some inconvenience/anxiety falls on what he morally ought to do. Because the other person is facing a worse situation because of his actions, so it's his responsbility and obligation to alleviate that as possible. If you break something you repair it, if you can't you can pay for a repair so things are as close to how they were before.
According to whose morals and ethics? Not mine.
Are you one of those people who believe there's no right and wrong and morality is entirely subjective?
Holy shit that's condescending
Meh, every single person that followed that ideology equated sodomizing a little kid for days to picking your nose. If that's your ideology I don't respect it. If you follow your ideology, I don't respect you. If you follow that ideology, there's nothing immoral about being condescending, so why are you even complaining about it? If you don't follow that ideology, then that (justified) lack of respect is not direct towards you.
Half right, there is a right and wrong, but you don't get to dictate what they are for me or anyone else for that matter. Morality is relative, it has always been, what was once moral can become immoral and later become moral again. Homosexuality is an excellent example of this. It all has to do with cultural values which are subjective and malleable.
That's a contradiction. If there is a right and a wrong then it's not subjective. Before continuing, I've had this debate many times, and it's tiresome, so let me ask you a question. Is sodomizing a kid for days for your persona pleasure and fun is universally, objectively wrong or not?
Was it in ancient Greece? (also way to move those goal posts right past the crux of the argument)
You're the one arguing for moral subjectivity, which is beyond the scope of the abortion debate. From what I've read about that fallacy(new to me) you're the one moving the goal posts and the debate into another place. As I said universally, it's clear that it also includes ancient Greece. Even in ancient Greece, grabbing a 4 year old kid(from either sex) and sodomizing them for your personal pleasure was wrong. The thing with that subjective morality, is, just like any other advancement we've had. At one time people didn't know about evolution and thought multiple things about how there was diversity. Does that make truth subjective? Is the law of evolution subjective? Even if no one formulated ideas that would end up becoming the law of evolution the truth was there. There's truth in things, what's subjective is our understanding of it. But that also 'evolves', just as we progress in science, we have also progressed in our understanding of right and wrong. Not just as a society but overall as humanity, we've progressed together into rejecting monarchy, elitism, recognizing people as equals regardless of their social status or race, human rights for every human, etc... Are there places where this isn't so? Of course, there's places where science understanding hasn't reached them yet, does that mean that science is subjective? Well, as I said, if you can claim that grabbing a 4 year old kid, sodomizing them, torturing them for days is morally equivalent to a kid picking his nose then I don't have the inclination to have this discussion with you.

If you hit me with your car, should there be a legal obligation to give me your kidney, if I require it? It's a simple question. Furthermore, if a woman dies in childbirth with no other family, should the doctor who delivered it be legally responsible for raising that child? After all, one could say that s/he is responsible for the actions which killed the mother and led to an unparented child. So they have the responsibility and obligation to alleviate the suffering?
If you require it and there's no other kidneys for transfer available, yes. If there are other kidneys for transfer, then I ought to be legally obliged to pay for it. That's an interesting question. There's a little difference between abortion and that case, that case has more in common with a parent who doesn't want to care for the born baby(missing dad for example). The difference is that the alternative in the abortion is death, the alternative course of action for the doctor would give it to adoption. Now, I understand that in the US, not all foster homes are good(some are). So, what's the ideal situation? It's a hard decision, the ideal outcome would be that yes, indeed, he cares for the baby and grows to love him and give him a good house. Even though it's the maximum best, it may be unrealistic. So it's a balance between both outcomes, because both are arguably not good(maybe the doctor wants the baby, or maybe the baby gets a house as most adoptions are for newborn babies), an alternative for the doctor would be to cut the middle man and find people who want to be parents directly(not sure if that's legal or not). The alternative isn't to kill the baby, that's what your moral(and legal) bounds should be.
I'm sick in bed today so I suppose I'm up for a debate then, why not? I guess my first point of contention is this: You say you want the woman and the fetus to have the same rights, but the truth is that nobody and nothing, person or not, has the right to use another person's body without their consent. That's why things like rape and slavery are illegal and it's considered self defense rather than murder to kill someone who's violating your body.
Thanks for the response, Taylor. Well there are two things here: the legal and moral difference of things. You're talking about the legality of rape and slavery and comparing it with the morality of rape and slavery but for a long period of time slavery was legal, and yet it never was moral. Also you're talking about the right of another person not to use another person's body without their consent as a right. Although I agree with it being important, I don't consider it to be on the same hierarchy level of life. You'd have to go deeper on the argument I think. For example, let's say I lose the balance of my body and in order to not fall down I instinctively grab you. I'm using then your body without your consent. But I bet that doesn't count as an infringement of your right. Even if it did, it's not in the same level of let's say murder would on the right towards life. Plus, even if the fetus is actually infringing on your right, it's doing so involuntarily(which is a BIG matter in legal and philosophical fields) while you're doing so willingly. So the level of infraction sort of speaking is way higher on the aborter than the abortee(and that's even IF I agree with you on it, which I haven't)
.
I would choose to be a woman. Being a woman today is fun. You can have multiple orgasms and multiple sexual partners very easily. But maybe that's because I'm not a woman, menstruation is a bitch. But you're also not a man, so we're on equal positions, the only experience we have of the other sex is anecdotal and observational. Oh I agree, there's always a risk of pregnancy even if you're careful. The actual risk of that pregnancy I would argue is really low that it's not relevant to the normal abortion case. But even if it were it doesn't matter. Yes, they chose to have sex. No, this isn't a way of punishing women for being horny. I like women to be horny. I benefit from women being horny. I don't want women to stop having sex, outside of the range of women I meet and which could be my sexual partners I don't care if women have sex once a day, 5 times a day, with one guy, with 100 guys or with no one. What I care is about the worth of a human being and the value of not killing it wantonly. On a reasonable part, I don't care about your sexual life just that you be responsible. That means I don't care about your sexual partners, but if you catch an STD I do care you being responsible and not go around having unprotected sex. In your case abortion was indeed a good choice. Rather a bad choice that turned for the good. If you had known beforehand I would agree that having an abortion was within your rights. You are not the typical case for abortion. When talking about abortion and statistics, we're not talking about your kind of cases, that are extremely rare. Let's flip it and let's say instead of a woman who would have had a regular pregnancy but chose to have an abortion and for some unknown condition there were complications and she died. Is that a regular abortion for you? When you talk about abortion, are those type of things you mean? Of course not. Can you give me an example of why I argue in circles? I'd like to argue with clarity and good arguments. So if you think I'm arguing in circles please tell me where and how
Were that an option, you might have a place in this debate. As it is, you have a dick and you want to control my uterus. That's plainly obscene. That would be like me saying the onus is on all men to have vasectomies, and bank sperm, thereby making nearly all pregnancies planned. You wouldn't have to worry about babies being products of rape and incest either. Seems like a huge win for women and the anti-choice crowd. As an anti-choice man, why is that not your goal? It's the safest, most effective option for long term family planning, and is reversible. The risk of damage is far lower than pregnancy. If you're so interested in controlling other people's bodies, why ours? Why not be proactive and go after male bodily autonomy? Well now I just want to reach right through my phone and break your nose. There are, conservatively, dozens of countries where this is not remotely true. You're not even enough of a humanist to consider that there are women who will never orgasm because some asshole cut off their clitoris. In much of the world, being a woman means living with fear, subservience, and domestic violence. One of my dear friends is being beaten by her husband. The two male officers dispatched to her residence said her husband seemed like a reasonable young man, and left! This is in America. So yeah... lots of fun being a woman. Menstruation? You think that's the hard part? Do you even know any women? Breast cancer. Cervical cancer. Ovarian cancer. Endometriosis. The yearly checkup of our sex organs for common diseases is so much more extensive and uncomfortable than what you go through in a prostate exam. And that's just one or two days a year! Way too much to cover here about what it's like to be a woman. But yeah.... menstruation. Here's something non-anecdotal: I know what it's like to have a finger up my ass. I also know what it's like to have a speculum spread me open while parts of my cervix are scraped off, or cut out. Next week I'll know what it's like to have part of my cervix removed with an electrified loop. You? I can't see any evidence that you have made any factual observations about women, or even read a book written by a woman. You seem to think it's all orgasms and menstruation. It's confounding. Well, there is no risk to YOU for pregnancy. And here is me proving you wrong with CDC guidelines on the failure rates of all contraceptives. You'll have to download the PDFs. https://www.cdc.gov/reproductivehealth/contraception/ Pretty stunning, huh? Here we go! Everytime someone makes a straightforward, factual statement, you say it doesn't matter, use it to rotate back to a previously failed argument, or fail to address it entirely. And therefore, according to you, should be forced through an unwanted pregnancy if their medicine or medical device fails. But it does punish women. It punishes them physically and economically, and often to the detriment of their already existing children. You care about the worth of a potential human life more than actual human lives. In fact, that fetus becomes immediately less valuable to you after birth. When/if the mother becomes pregnant again, you would force her to keep a fetus, even if it were to the detriment of her other children. I have no comment to this. Good for you? What was the point of this, exactly? To prove you're not trying to punish women for being horny? Whether or not you try, that's the result. The only thing we'll be agreeing on here. And there it is... I want you to claim it proudly. If it were up to you, I would be tetraplegic right now, and unable to care for the child. If you cannot even face the known, personal consequences of your position, then how can you deny women choice? Choice is what saved my life. Faster access to that choice could have saved the 28 years of work that went into making me a useful member of society. Your ilk won a battle in my state that means getting an abortion takes a couple of weeks. So proudly own that too - own my disability. Take a bow. These are the consequences of your position. If you can't own that, you cannot be taken seriously. 1: So just like your failed failed-contraception argument, you acknowledge my situation, minimize it, then say it doesn't matter. 2: We should be talking about exactly my kind of case, and every other kind of case. My case illustrates a need for choice in a way that's impossible to refute. I had the choice to listen to my body. Fewer limitations on abortion/faster access would have me out saving lives right now. Instead I'm disabled. You don't get to conveniently ignore that. The fact is, there are no statistics kept for the number of women who felt in their bones that something was wrong and had an abortion as a result. There was no check-box for it on the form. I couldn't tell you what, if any, reason I gave. 3: The typical abortion is chosen by a woman who already has children and won't be able to care for more of them. Who is going to take care of those kids? There is not a high enough demand for adoption to support children resulting from unwanted pregnancy. So when you talk about economic choices ITT, you're neglecting to mention that the economic choice being made is to continue housing, feeding, and clothing existing children. Wow, but this is poorly thought out. False equivalence. 1: Yes I would consider that a regular abortion. A regular abortion OR a regular pregnancy can go wrong. The stakes are high. That's why we advocate for choice. It's also why there's a stack of disclaimers that have to be signed for an abortion, or treatment during pregnancy and labor. Again, you seem to know genuinely nothing about women's health. 2: CHOICE. This is the debate, yes? It's about my claim to a right to choose. Both the scenario I present and your "flipped" version give a woman choice. 3: If you remove choice, girls as young as 9 will die because of pregnancy and labor, or botched back-alley abortions. And you'll have to proudly own that too. IF I choose to spend another moment dealing with you, I'll point it out throughout the thread. Please read some books by women.  If you take nothing else away from this, I would hope that it's an understanding that women deserve more of your consideration and understanding before you take a stance on our bodily autonomy. You seem to know very little about the lives of women or why some choose abortion. Edit: paragraph break
I think I love you<3 On a more serious note, you rock. Have an upvote. :)
Thank you. That's always nice to hear! I love you too, internet stranger.
You've made a huge wall of text and it's late, but I'll do my best to answer it. "Were that an option, you might have a place in this debate." You're complaining about bodily autonomy while saying I don't deserve a place in a debate. Don't you think that's at least, ironic? I have no desire to control your uterus, I couldn't care less, what I care, in the matter of pregnancy(I think you're not pregnant) is the human being's life growing on it. Your example is not complete because there's a both philosophical and legal difference between not allowing something and enforcing and forcing something. In other words, there's a crucial difference between saying "don't litter" and "pick all the litter until the city's clean". On a moral note, if it were to be proven morally that it's the best cause of action I would, but as it stands your example is not a good one. Maybe you picked it on the fly, and would like to choose another example more appropriate. All of these comes from a straw man which is that I care about your body, or to control it(whatever that means and the significance of it). I just care about the preserving of life. Also, about the whole bodily autonomy. I can't just go around peeing on people if I want to. Bodily autonomy is not supreme, just as autonomy in general(bodily autonomy is a subset of autonomy) is not supreme. There are restrictions on autonomy, bodily warrants no exception. "There are, conservatively..." Oh I agree, I misspoke, being a woman in non-third world, miserable, religiously or tribally dominated societies is fun(for example the US). Being a woman in those places suck, but also being a man in those places suck. Being a human in those places suck, so because you have a pussy doesn't mean you can talk about the brutalities men experience in those places(according to your logic). Bottom line is, women have their struggles, men have their struggles, there are places where women have it worse, the US is not one of them. Oh you mean in America? I actually think the female to male domestic violence is greater than the male to female in America. That of course, doesn't mean your friend doesn't count. Your friend's husband acts more like an animal than a person and what he does is despicable, immoral and condemnable. I know of friends whose wives, girlfriends treat them like shit and has lead them to suicide(suicide is greater in men). But these is going besides the point. Let's keep on the subject. Well I know no woman friend who has any of those things you mentioned or expressed it. The thing they most commonly complain is menstruation and men. "And here is me proving you wrong with" Not really, for example for the condom it seems kind of low effectiveness 18 in 100, but they're talking about 'typical use', not correct usage, which increase up until 98% it's effectiveness. Significantly higher. It's lower than that typically because it's not used correctly, which is the responsibility of both of them. Also, if you combine the male condom with other conception tools it's almost impossible for a regular woman to get pregnant. "Here we go!" Like when? I think you're misinterpreting the times I say "even if it were it wouldn't matter..." to mean "I know you are right but I'm ignoring it" rather than the clear meaning of "even if it were true it wouldn't matter". "And therefore, according to you, should be..." A description of my stance does not an argument make. Also, you're using forceful, which sounds strong, but the killing of a baby is actually forceful, for you see, I'm not forcing anyone to not have abortions, I'm saying it's immoral to have them in most cases. Even if it were illegal, you're still not forced to not abort the pregnancy because no one is using force, I believe. "But it does punish women. It punishes them physically and economically, and often to the detriment of their already existing children." No it's not a punishment. Do you even know what word punishment means? You don't find it convenient which is different to someone punishing you. Let's make something clear, I'm talking about a regular abortion in the US in where having a baby doesn't mean you will starve to death or one of your children will. That the consequence of your actions means hardship for you doesn't make it morally right to kill another human being, specially one that you're responsibly for. "To prove you're not trying to punish women for being horny?" I believe you're confusing punishment with responsibility. Look up their meanings, you're not using the word punishment appropriately. If I were to say it's immoral for a woman who has AIDS to have unprovoked sex with lots of men because she gets more pleasure not doing it with a condom, would you say I was punishing her then? Is that controlling her? "If it were up to you, I would be tetraplegic right now, and unable to care for the child." That's a total misconstruction on the whole debate. If for some reason an abortion turned a woman tetraplegic would you say that she say proudly that her choice lead to her being tetraplegic? If it were up to me, you would be neither tetraplegic nor the child dead. As I can't have both it would be a difficult choice. Your left or right hand kind of scenario. Still, the life of a human being is more valuable than their motion. What you're doing is an appeal to emotion, which is a cheap shot, I'd might very well ask you to claim proudly "I killed another human being because he was inconvenient for me". Let's not resort to cheap shots. Yes, the consequences of the stance for saving human life sometimes leads to a wide range of complications. So does YOUR stance. In a more general note your pro-choice stance leads to suffering in certain scenarios. Does that mean your pro-choice is a wrong one? "So just like your failed failed-contraception argument" I think I've shown logically why it's not a failed argument. Your case is minimal when we're talking numbers in all of the US. Does that mean your case doesn't matter? Your suffering doesn't matter? Of course it does! But you're also still, appealing to emotion in a logical debate. In every data there are outliers. There's the concept of statistical relevance. Does Viagra kill? Statistically the number of is so low you don't consider Viagra to be a fatal medication. "My case illustrates a need for choice in a way that's impossible to refute. I had the choice to listen to my body" It doesn't illustrate it in a way that's impossible to refute. You didn't know you would have that complication. That listening to your body could have been any number of things, from low to severe, and you wouldn't have known. The point that your mobility vs the human life is in and of itself refutable. If you had known about your complication, then I would agree that you have a right to choose. "The typical abortion is chosen by a woman who already has children and won't be able to care for more of them. Who is going to take care of those kids?" Were did you get that source? Also, unable or unwilling? As far as I know, in the US it's not a matter of not being able, but a matter of a lifestyle choice. If you have valid data that contradicts it please show it to me. If a mother is unable to provide for a baby, that is to say, if she births him, even with all her effort the baby will end up dying of starvation, then yes, I would say, abortion can be a consideration. I highly doubt that that is the typical abortion. In that case I would say the mother has three choices, either she abstains from sex, or she kills a living human being if she ends up pregnant, or killing a living human being after birth. The last two are horrible options, so the right choice is to abstain from sex. "False equivalence." Why do you it's false equivalence? I talked about specifically the complication arising BECAUSE of the abortion, not the regular pregnancy. So a regular abortion involves a major complication? Yes, I don't see your point. I agree both cases involve a choice. What's your point? Oh, come on. What percentage of abortions are performed on 9 year olds? I want the actual percentage. I'll wait. Also, remember that I've stated that I agree on abortion when it involves a high risk for the mother. A 9 year old clearly fits into that category. That you are a woman doesn't make you an expert on all woman things. Your experience of being a woman is drastically different to the experience of other woman's. Just like my experience of being a man is different to other men's. I have three sisters, three mothers and regular girl friends. All of those things that you mentioned are your experience, are things that none of them have mentioned. It's not part of their world. So why are you "forcing" your experience to fit into their own?
There is no such thing as a "regular abortion."  The variety of circumstances is too vast.  And yes, how careful you are absolutely does matter.  The ethical implications are absolutely different for someone who made a good faith effort only to conceive in a good circumstance and someone who was reckless.  And yes, it's relevant to the debate because it seems very difficult to legislate all of the different possible scenarios under which conception occurs.  Make a decision to conceive and it can be a good choice that turns bad.  You should not be forced to carry to term in a bad circumstance and that is far too open to interpretation to possibly be legislated.  If a woman has a boyfriend who says he will beat her up if she has a baby, and yet had lied to her to create a scenario in which she felt safe having unprotected sex, what law should we put on the books for her?  Is she allowed to have an Abortion?  Does it depend on her age and mental state?  What if she has codependency issues making her more vulnerbale to manipulation and gaslighting?  What about the woman whose husband lied to her and said he was Sterile?  In this case, it was a new marriage and the husband was mentally ill but hid that fact.  This happenened to a family member of mine.  Should sue have gotten it in writing he was sterile?  Should she have to prove this in court before being granted an Abortion?  It's not just a matter of rape victims vs. "loose women."  Try to write down every possible context for conception and there are 10 more just as complicated and nuanced.
But most abortions do fall into the category of inconvenience in lifestyle choices(at least in the US). It's not a serious life or death scenario, or a rape scenario or something like that. They fall down to inconvenience. https://www.guttmacher.org/sites/default/files/pdfs/journals/3711005.pdf The legislative side is hard, but that's the same with almost all legal issues. That's why there's generalization of law that tries to include all scenarios, but it never does include all possible scenarios. The baby is a human being. Whether he's a person or not is a very arguable position, arising even from the personhood concept. All personhood criteria I've known have holes and it leads to the question of why is that specific personal criteria a consideration into killing a human being?(criteria could go from skin colour, to behaviour, to sentience, to rational thought, to thought in general, to consciousness, etc.. they all have holes). So if we take the argument against taking the personhood from a human being then we have to conclude that killing a human being is murder. Murder is permissible in certain scenarios, that require a strong reason for justifying it, it's not something to be taken lightly. Regardless of how she got pregnant, the question is: is the murder of this human being justified? In just a scenario is the reason strong enough and that's where the life of the mother is at risk. Who gets to decide that? Doctors, not the layperson, not the mother. That's why they are doctors.
Do you see in your link how it says that the majority of abortions are requested by women who already have children? It's not so much "convenience" as "I already have several children and do not have the time or money to care for another." I.e., it's done for the woman's existing children's benefit as much as it is done for her own benefit.
Yes. You say "time" as one of the reasons. Isn't time a convenience issue? I like that you interpret the data. Most myths with statistics is that there's a failure to interpret the data correctly, and most people don't interpret the data. I admire you for doing so. But I disagree with your interpretation. How can we be sure that the reason is motivated by the mother's benefit mainly or by the family's benefit in general. Even if it worsens that family situation you can't know what the motivations are. The reasons were given where the woman was the center of the reason not the family. So my interpretation is different. In your analysis, what's the difference between benefit and convenience? If I commit fraud and steal money for my children's and my benefit, wouldn't you say that it was commited out of convenience. Even if it were for the benefit of the children, would you say it's a moral thing to do. The only possible justification I can see is necessity. Real necessity. The kind of where the baby is born one of the other children's or maybe that same baby will die of starvation. It happens in certain parts of the world, but it's not common in the US. In that case I would say that abortion is a necessity but that having sex was then immoral. Because it would lead to the death of another human being. Similar to when a person contracts AIDS. It's unfortunate, but that person can't go around having sex with people because there's the risk of contagion. In that scenario, where sex carries so much risk the moral thing is not do engage in it
The authors interpreted the data pretty well themselves. From the paper: And time is not a convenience issue. It's a limited  resource. There are only 24 hours in a day. You can take your creepy "morals", wherein it's immoral for a woman to have sex if she doesn't want or cannot care for a child, and go fuck yourself. I'm going to keep enjoying sex with my husband.
Yes, I read the conclusions, they don't contradict what I said. If you look at the data it verifies what I said. Have sex all you want, I never said don't do it. I just said don't get pregnant if you don't want to. Don't kill a human being if you don't want it.
We're not talking about murder.  We're talking about abotion.  The two are different precisely because as you said, personhood isn't cut and dry.  The ACOG agrees that a fetus can't feel pain until during the third trimester.   Since there's no medical basis for personhood until well into the third trimester, it isn't just up to doctors.  You see, if a doctor was willing to perform an abortion at 10 weeks, but a woman believed her fetus was a person, then she should not go through with the procedure.  Likewise, if the fetus was not a person in her mind, but the doctor had a superstitious or religious belief that the fetus was a person, the procedure should still be performed.  Since there's no medical basis for personhood at 10 weeks, there is no medical basis for refusal to proceed, and therefore it isn't just the doctor's decision.  It's between a woman, her faith, and her doctor. https://www.acog.org/-/media/Departments/Government-Relations-and-Outreach/FactAreImportFetalPain.pdf
It's an interesting debate, the debate about personhood, which you also agree that it's what boils down to in the abortion debate. You've commented thrice about the personhood in three different comments. Let's argue in a single thread.
No uterus, no opinion. You don't see women parading around telling you what to do with your life. So stop telling us what we can and cannot do with our bodies. You disgust me.
I'm not sure how much time i have for this, but a few points: Right out the gate, this is very sloppy and imprecise. "Human being" is not a scientific term. What is a "human being" according to your definition? I suppose you include 2-day-old fertilized ova in your definition? A fertilised ovum is a microscopic cluster of cells. It is not an object of moral consideration. Yep, thinking about these things for ourselves, rather than accepting the dogma of some religious authority, requires effort and doesn't yield simple answers. But rather than skirting around the whole issue, it seems clear to me that an embryo, lacking neural structures to have any level consciousness or feeling, doesn't qualify for personhood. No. This is not a fair presentation of the argument of bodily autonomy. The bodily autonomy argument is that one person's need does not constitute a rightful claim on anothers body. Further, your position here relies on the assumption that the embryo or fetus is a person, which is in serious question, particularly in the first trimester.
It is a scientific term. Or at least a term scientists use in science.(https://www.sciencedaily.com/terms/human_biology.htm) (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2672893/) Emphasis on "it seems clear to me". It seemed clear to many people that slaves were subhuman, in certain cultures. It seemed clear to many philosophers that women weren't the same as men and men were superior. It also depends on when the abortion is taken place the different markers proposed for personhood. We have to see why consciousness or feeling is what determines personhood and what you mean by them. By consciousness you mean being aware of itself? Babies aren't conscious up until 18 months. Are they not persons before? If not, can I kill them? Feeling, do you mean sensational feeling? Why is that a marker for personhood. When you're asleep you're not conscious of the feeling. If you're in a deprivation tank you don't feel things, are you less of a person because of that? Well, different people have made different arguments to the whole bodily autonomy issue, so which one is the fair representation? Yours? I'm talking about what other people have said to me, which is their representation. So it's not fair to say it's not a fair representation of the argument. I disagree with the way that argument as it's been proposed by you about the rightful claim, but that's beside the main point, which is that the mother has a responsibility over the fetus, that means the fetus does have a claim. And what do you mean by another's body? The body itself is giving the fetus naturally all the things required for its survival. Also the bodily autonomy doesn't stand above other considerations or is not the only or supreme consideration. The fact that the mother is responsible for the life is a strong consideration. Morally there's a big difference. And then there's the right to life. And every way of killing the baby is also an infringement on its bodily autonomy, I'd say. I agree, the whole debate is whether or not it's a person. But I've already covered that part, I believe
Whether abortion is murder or not women will have them, rich women will fly to another country and the poor will have them in back allies and die. You cannot force a woman to have a baby, woman will literally drive across the country for one. I personally have never needed or wanted an abortion but I did birth two babies and that's what turned me prochoice. You can try to push your "morals," however, from a legal stand point it's almost impossible to regulate pregnancy without removing rights of woman who have every intention of a healthy pregnancy but had a miscarriage, every miscarriage, fall, and still born baby will place a mother in a situation where she not only lost her child but now is facing possible charges, legal charges, woman could go to prison. So I'm generally curious on how you even think we could make any law regulating woman's bodies, when in places where abortion is illegal, woman (who WANT) their pregnancies are suffering because of anti choice laws. Google it.
Well, you're really talking about two different things. One is the practicality and possibly legality of abortion and the other one is the morals. You said "morals". Do you not believe there's morality? Or that it's not something to strive for? To be a moral person, or a moral society or a moral humanity? What's wrong about pushing morals? We all do it. In fact, laws regulate morality. Society pushes me the morals about not murdering, not stealing, etc... And that's good. Society should push morality, individuals should strive for morality. But they should also strive for their morality to be as true as possible. That's why debate is valuable, it's how we change ideas and get closer the truth. About the practicality of abortion. Just in this thread I've changed my view on it. I'm thinking now that abortion should be legal, NOT because it's moral, but because if there are no more abortions when it's banned than when it's not, then it makes no difference for babies. But it makes a difference for mothers. But I'm still considering it. That's not how law enforcement works. As another person said, every suicide is potentially a murder but the line of inquiry is not the same as in murder. And someone has to report it. And it's the same with a lot of other legal issues, there's always the risk of being found guilty while being innocent, for example in a murder, that doesn't mean we make murder legal. An interesting question. If it were found that making rape legal would reduce rapes by 1% would you make rape legal? Also, if it were found that making rape legal doesn't affect rapes at all, but reduces any possible harm for the rapist, would you make rape legal? Not sure what to Google, maybe you should link to the relevant source?
It's late but some sources: http://www.alternet.org/civil-liberties/arrested-having-miscarriage-7-appalling-instances-where-pregnant-women-were https://www.google.com/amp/s/thinkprogress.org/amp/p/119b8fba1c70 But honestly your arguments aren't relevant to me but I hope you found some insight or whatever you were looking for.


Until we solve the unprecedented level of childhood poverty in this country, I can't imagine forcing pregnancies to term to be a reasonable discussion that can be had.
Well, if abortion is murder. Then you're implying that murder is a better outcome than leaving in poverty. If that's so, is it then desirable for someone to go around killing people underneath the poverty line? There's poverty and there's misery. Are we talking about miserable conditions where if the child is not aborted he will end up dying of starvation? Or are we talking poverty where he will have hand me downs? I lived next to a family that was by all standards poor, very poor. The land they were in, wasn't theirs, the house was made of aluminum and tin. So they would indeed be categorized as living in poverty. But they ate, they went to school, they had lives. Are you talking about similar cases when you talk about poverty?
  Abortion isnt murder, but I think that it could be reasonably argued that it is in some way "killing a baby". I realize that the argument is when life begins, whether at conception or some arbitrary point further along in the process, but at the end of the day the potential for life has been cut short based on the decision of the mother. An argument on semantics is, in my opinion, pointless.     I'm implying that being born is a better outcome than a life of poverty. When I say poverty, I don't just mean growing up poor- I mean to be stuck in poverty, to be more likely to grow up in an abusive home, in a home thats filled with drugs, one which will likely result in a child that knows nothing but struggle from a young age. This is no good for the mother, the child or for society.     21% of the children in America are not afforded 3 meals a day because of the rising poverty and income gap. When I discuss poverty, I mean children who cannot be afforded the basic needs that our society has deemed appropriate- especially for a developed country.   For a young woman in the US, you will more than likely be in poverty if you do not finish your high school education, and increasingly, if you do not get a higher level degree. Following graduation, there's the process of finding a job and, if you didnt go for those few fields that guarantee a living salary, the time and effort that it takes to climb the ladder. There can be no expectation for this level of achievement when you factor in an (unwanted) child and the costs/responsibilities that come along with it. My mother dropped out of college in her second year because she couldnt find a babysitter (for me) for an exam. She had worked her ass off and gave up when she realized that she couldnt afford to educate herself and raise me. She has spent her entire life working to provide for me and my siblings (which were born when she had more stability).   That was in the 1980's, when the majority of college aged Americans weren't concerned that, unless they hit every expectation laid out by society, they will have a worse standard of living than their parents. If it came down to it, I would much rather my mother had aborted me and been able to have a life with the basics afforded to both herself and my siblings than me being the anchor that keeps the entire family below the poverty line. Why should all of us suffer, myself included (and I dont mean suffer as in, "unable to afford brand name clothes"- i mean suffer, as in undue misery to satisfy the moral prerogative of others).   Two points:   Until we address the unprecedented disparity for childhood poverty in the US relative to all other developed nations, its short sighted and even ignorant to fight abortion protections. These people are putting their judgements and ideology before the well being of the mother, the child and society at large. Whose going to pay for these children when theyre left in neglect, whose going to pay for the healthcare, whose going to dealwith the increase in violent crimes, not to mention the increase in overpopulated orphanages? This doesnt take into account the fact that people voting for this are also voting for a party which restricts contraception, sex education, same sex adoption and virtually every other modern means of minimizing the suffering of children (not to mention the spread HIV- whose going to pay for all those antiretrovirals? The party of personal responsibility?) . You cannot fight a war against these fixes while trying to outlaw abortion- you cant have it both ways.   Let's discuss a reality that is forgotten in the discussion all too often. There are 8 billion people on this planet. We are expected to reach just under 10 billion people by 2050. The uppermost population limit with respect to food production (unless everyone stops eating meat) is just at 10 billion. We should be SPREADING sex education, the use of contraception and abortion instead of perpetuating this myth that you a) need to have a baby and b) you need to have A LOT of babies. Climate change is a real issue and all of us will live to see famine across the globe- why wouldn't we try to mitigate the risks, NOW? Instead, we're actively denying that there is a problem while trying to legislate abortion away. These people want to ensure that not only is the child born, but the child will have no option other than to watch the environmental collapse that they had no hand in destroying and after a point where its too late for them to make any changes. I'd rather not be born.
"Abortion isnt murder, but I think that it could..." What is murder? At one point in history a rich owner could have said "killing blacks isn't murder, it can be reasonably argued it is in some way 'killing off property'". I agree with you in the sense that murder is a legal term, I was using it coloquially in the way that you would say a slave was murdered by its masters. It was legal, but it wasn't right. The definition of murder: the unlawful premeditated killing of one human being by another. The only part that doesn't fit the criteria is the 'unlawful' part in certain cases in certain places, for example in the US. Where abortion is illegal, then it is in deed murder, wouldn't you say? But coloquially we use murder regardless of the legal status. Also the discussion isn't about the life. A fetus is alive, it's a human being. Those are biological facts. That's not the question. A fetus isn't a potential life, things are alive or they are not. A fetus is alive, an organism and a member of the human species. Hence it's a human being. Not a fully developed one yet, of course, but up until around 25, humans don't reach the full maturity either. "I'm implying that being born is a better outcome than a life of poverty." I don't understand that sentence, it seems non-sensical to me. A life in poverty necessitates having being born. I understand your argument against negative conditions of the birth of a human. It's horrible that someone's life is one of misery and hardship(although I disagree with the "stuck in poverty". Many people have defeated their life conditions, one of them is my father. He wasn't wanted, my grandfathers were poor, they were in a bad position economically, and yet, he was multimillionaire in his youth and had a successful and prolific life). Ideally life would be different. But you don't get to kill people based on that. If death is preferable to that kind of life, we should morally kill all the people in those situations. That of course is ridiculous. "21% of the children in America are not afforded 3 meals a day because of the rising poverty and income gap. When I discuss poverty" Not sure if that figure is accurate, but let's say it is. It still doesn't justify death. Should we kill those 21% of children? If not, then we shouldn't abort the babies either. At least, not on that justification, because if it were true, it would also be true for the 21% of those children. "My mother dropped out of college in her second year because she couldnt find a babysitter (for me) for an exam." Had it been your brother instead of you, would you rather he be dead? Yes, single mothers have a harder time than married couples, that's even common sense. Still, doesn't justify killing babies. And besides in this day and age, you can avoid pregnancy if you're responsible about it. In another comment I did the math based on the numbers, and the probability of getting pregnant in a whole decade was of around 0.03% "Why should all of us suffer" Well, rather, people should be careful with their birth control as I said. So rather than killing a baby you can't afford, they should take responsibility for their sex life and not have that baby. A similar case happens when not only the mother cannot complete university, but when the costs of maintaining another life are high. In order for the family to have a superior life, should that mother grab the newborn and smash his head with a rock? I mean, it would give that family a better life. The answer is no, the worth of human life is superior to economic hardships. Do I wish all families to have a good life? Yes. Does that mean that it's ok to kill other human beings to achieve it? No. Also, in your case, you've stated that you would like to have been aborted. But you can't decide that for another human being. Let's say you could kill the baby of every mother you wanted without any repercussions to the mother. It wouldn't be moral to go to all poor mothers and kill their babies because they're going to have a better life now. "Until we address the unprecedented disparity for childhood poverty in the US relative to all other developed nations, its short sighted and even ignorant to fight abortion protections." Not all abortions are like that. Besides poverty doesn't actually mean a bad life. Poverty doesn't mean drugs, abuse, etc.. those are different subjects. There's a lot of drugs, abuse, neglect, etc... in wealthy communities. In fact, I went to private and public school. The people I knew in public school(which were poor) were a lot happier than the ones in private school, which the majority came from divorced parents and felt neglected. So, I would say, let's talk about lives in misery, which is harder to measure and I doubt they're more than let's say 20% of abortion cases in the US. I'm not voting for anti-conception, anti-sex, anti same sex adoption or anything like that. In fact, I'm in favour for all of them, so it doesn't really apply to me. "We should be SPREADING sex education, the use of contraception and abortion " We should be spreading sex education, although that's not really what's missing I believe. I don't know a single person who doesn't know they can get pregnant, what birth control is, or any relevant information. Yes, it helps to spread sex education but I don't think that's what's missing. I'm in favour though. We should be spreading: Education and knowledge, responsibility and birth control, and the killing of innocent human beings. Guess which one doesn't belong. Abortion is something that should be eradicated through conscious use of birth control. Of course, abortion does indeed help in reducing overpopulation, but so is genocide. Doesn't mean it's a moral option.
Use ">" when quoting, it makes it easier to follow. I'd consider it mercy killing, and even then, the fact that this is before any sort of consciousness has developed, isnt particularly different from pulling the plug on someone who is brain dead. Assume that there may be a moment of pain? Throughout infancy and even as toddlers, our brains arent developed enough to hold on to memories from that early on- for a fetus, I cant imagine this being a legitimate argument to have. The cycle of poverty is a very real thing and, considering the many issues that this country faces (issues which we seem to be unable to find solutions to and instead, are actively making worse), I dont think that this argument is an unfair one. Economic mobility is directly related to education, family wealthy, culture, and development. The world in which your father grew up in is much different the world we live in- my mother was also able to build a life that, today, which have been much more impressive accomplishment. Low-income children caught up in their parents’ economic struggles experience the impact through unmet needs, low-quality schools, and unstable circumstances. Children as a group are disproportionately poor: roughly one in five live in poverty compared with one in eight adults" (US Census Bureau 2014). I agree with the above, but these points cant be made considering the world we live in. We reside in developed countries, the luxuries that we're afforded are by virtue of the harsh conditions of those who work to supply us with that which we consume. We put economic benefit before life every single day. Its wrong, and im against it, but we do. And these lives are people with complex thoughts and emotions, yet the question isnt whether or not we should be continue buying nutella or whether or not we're okay with Forever 21 using slave labor to manufacture clothing- its just not an issue, despite the objective immorality of it all. This argument is arbitrary and I'd be happy to have it elsewhere, but I dont think its relevant to abortion. I will say this: keeping our chunk of society afloat, the good of the people, DOES come before the good of the unborn. I explained why a baby is different, so for contexts sake, I'll assume in the above we're referring to fetuses. In these cases, ideally we would provide all of these women with the proper care before birth, be it education or contraceptives. Its no accident that undereducated women give birth to more children at a younger age. There are methods that arent killing. The baby isnt the factor that causes poverty, but it exacerbates the conditions if the woman is already more likely to be in that cycle. In a 2005 study, 73% of women undergoing an abortion said not being able to afford a baby now was a reason for the abortion. That number rose to 81% for women below the federal poverty line.1 And while the abortion rate for American women declined by 8% between 2000 and 2008, among poor American women it increased by 18% US conference of Catholic Baptists. Their information is cited from credible sources. Thats great, but you arent in the majority, which is a shame because a nuanced discussion on abortion does need to be had, and the people who have any credibility are those who support methods of limiting abortion by preventative means. Unfortunately, most who share your view vote republican and are therefore shooting themselves in the foot with their methods. There can be no results if the above arent considered. You'd be surprised. Its no coincidence that states with less access to contraceptives and sex education have the highest rates of teen pregnancy, HIV rates (aside from NY and CA, which have high gay populations) and abortions. Texas has the highest maternal mortality rate of any first world country- Texas, the state. You're hung up on the innocent beings part. I will admit that yes, theyre innocent, but from the moment of birth their innocence will be lost to neglect (in the cases of them being simply unwanted). You cant force a mother to love her child and you cant force her to properly care for it. What is the alternative? Force her to have it and jail her if shes unfit? I would be 100% with you (i dont like abortion, i believe that it should be the last option, like, LAST) if we didnt have such an issue on this planet with poverty. People dont have access to birth control, there are laws all over the country that limit access, limit education- etc. Even with that, when there is an accident, condom broke or the some other fringe result, do we force a child into the world when there is nobody willing to care for it? I'm not making the argument for body autonomy, I'm making the argument for the welfare of the child- is it fair to force a woman to brith a child who will end up in the already overpopulated foster system, in a world that is currently going through troubled times such as those that we see? Genocide is much different than abortion. And again, climate change is killing the planet. Beyond our conversation- I wanted children, but at this point I wouldnt be cruel enough to bring them into a world so that we can no longer ensure will be habitable long term just as I wouldnt have a child while living through the holocaust. There are certain things that are worse than death, especially a death for one who has never had the capacity to think, feel, or experience. Abortion is by far the moral option. I'm in a rush to a meeting so if you'd like to pick at this further with me, I'm fine with that, and I'll be sure to offer more statistics to back up my position as opposed to just my opinions. I see afuture where we rid the world of abortions, the need for them or the justifications for them- but that world is not the world we live in, not yet.
Thanks for the educated and thoughtful reply. I'll try to give a thoughtful reply in response. I think you will agree on me that the crux of the matter revolves around whether the fetus is a person or not. All other considerations are secondary. The only real reason why the same situation of a fetus taken to the context of a 5 year old or a 1 year old kid is that the fetus isn't considered a person and the 5/1 year old kid is. It's not the real reason, at all. That goes for most pro-choice arguments. The real issue is personhood. We can cut through a lot of text and discussions if we can agree that the core issue is the personhood of a fetus. For example where you argue You only argue so because you consider a newborn baby to be a person, with rights, and not a fetus, wouldn't you agree?. There are other repots that contradict that. This is an interesting read with sources. http://www.johnstonsarchive.net/policy/abortion/abreasons.html#11 If abortion is equivalent to murder, then yes, abortion on a mass scale is equal to genocide. If you think death is preferrable for people being born into the world, do you find it justifiable then to kill those people? Again, I think we encounter the real issue, which is that you think fetuses aren't "real" people, but children are. If fetuses are real people, then there is indeed genocide, if they are then yes, killing a fetus and a child is comparable, so if the killing of a fetus is allowed, so comparatively so should the murder of a child. You know, overall, I agree with many of your things, and I can definitely understand and empathize with your position. I just disagree on three major things. Fetuses are persons(or at least that personhood is a dubious concept and shouldn't even be applied to the discussion). The reasons for abortion in the US. That is better for a child not to be born in a difficult world.
You can't prove that abortion is murder because the term "murder" refers to victims who are already people, and you can't establish personhood at any set point in time legally, scientifically, or ethically.  Personally speaking, I would not have an abortion in the third trimester when I knew the fetus could feel pain.  And still, I would have to have a good reason.  But, when I was early on in my pregnancies, I did not consider my now living children to be people at say, 10 weeks.  And neither did their father.  And yes, I do consider his opinion as do many other pro-choicers that I know and volunteer with.  By and large we are moral people and would not inflict pain on or remove rights from another PESRON unless we truly perceived there was greater net human suffering in continuing the gestations (like the likelihood of us dying in childbirth and leaving our multiple living children with no mother).  Anyway, if it's not a person, then termination is not murder.  Even if you considered my fetus to be a person, you have no medical or legal basis for such.  And if a law was created, that law would have no medical or ethical basis, other than your superstitious belief that personhood begins very early on (I'm not saying you do have that belief, I'm just citing for example the people who want to make personhood legally begin at conception, since they are also represented in these debates).
I've already addressed this on your other comment. Let's converse there
Knowing that something is a potential risk is not consenting to that risk, and it doesn't mean you can't take actions to negate that risk once encountered. You know STDs are a risk from sex, and if you get one you can take antibiotics and get rid of it. Well, same for a pregnancy. I know that "get rid of it" is harsh and I understand that it's an emotional thing for a lot of people. But I firmly believe no child should come into this world unwanted and no woman should have to go through a pregnancy she doesn't want. It takes a huge toll on your body. We know from history that women will seek out abortions whether they are legal or not. When faced with an unwanted pregnancy there are many women that cannot just accept that and live with it, they will do whatever it takes to end it. Making abortion illegal will not stop abortion, it will just end women's lives when they seek unsafe abortions.
I appreciate the response. Let's take the emotional side of it. Let's talk reason. Oh, I agree that you can negate the risks of that, but you also have to take responsibility for those acts. If you get STD's you have to take responsibility for it. That means that you can't go around having more unprotected sex and infecting other people. You fighting STD's don't harm another human being. You having an abortion DOES harm another human being. If you do that harm because it's inconvenient for you, then how is it different than a person who gets drunk and crashes into someone else and then refuses to take responsibility because it's inconvenient for him? It's a question I'd like an answer to. "But I firmly believe..." Those are two different things. About unwanted children, I agree that nobody should be unwanted, everyone should be loved, but it's better to be unwanted than dead. Most unwanted people agree, because they don't kill themselves when they learn that they are unwanted. Life's valuable they say with their actions. You've also stated those as your personal beliefs. Obviously we disagree, but just stating that is not an argument... unless your reasoning part is the "it takes a huge toll on your body". If it is, then my argument is that all pregnancies(wanted or unwanted) take a certain toll on the body. Yet, life still remains valuable. She's directly responsible for the baby(as is the father). The temporary toll on the body is not superior to the permanent killing of a human being. We're talking again morality vs convenience. Just like making murder or rape illegal will not stop murder or rape. It's a bad argument. I'm also not talking about the legality of it. I'm talking about the morality of it. Those historically illegal abortions were immoral too. The fact that they're doing them illegally doesn't make them moral. I agree that the woman's lives are also important. A solution to the dangers of illegal/unsafe abortions is to not have an illegal/unsafe abortion. If you take the risk of having an unsafe abortion, then that's also on her(remember, we decided not to take the emotional side into the equation). If I illegally go poaching for elephant tusks and I get hurt in the process, does that mean we should make illegal poaching legal?
I would argue that having an abortion is taking responsibility. Taking no action on your unwanted pregnancy and then giving birth and leaving the baby in a dumpster (which is something that tragically happens when someone feels they have no other option) is not taking responsibility. Harm implies suffering. I do not think that the fetus is suffering. We only allow abortions for non-medical reasons pre-viability because after that is when science agrees that you are actually doing the fetus harm by ending the pregnancy. There is no justification for poaching elephant tusks. Again we see abortion as similar to murder in self-defense. Pregnancy carries a ton of risks, and we don't believe women should be forced to go through that if they don't want to. It's not just about convenience. It's about the medical complications and extreme discomforts of pregnancy and the permanent changes it does to your body.
In that way it is taking responsibility. But in the way we use the word responsibility that's not true. In my drunken person example, taking responsibility would be a drunk teenager crashing into a person, the person survives barely, but will be able to press charges, so he fearing imprisonment, takes responsibility and kills the person. That wouldn't count to anyone as actually taking responsbility for the drinking. Harm doesn't imply suffering. I could kill you in your sleep, while your unconscious and I'd still have done harm to you. I could even rape a girl while she's unconscious but still get her pregnant and done harm to her. I agree that most abortions are performed while it's unlikely(with bolds) that the fetus suffers(although I'd say it's not really clear), but there are many that are dubious and a few where it definitely suffers, and more than we, precisley because we are more matured in our pain response system. There is no justification for the wantonly killing of human beings. Both aren't really arguments. My whole argument is that abortion is morally wrong, like killing elephants for commercial gains/fun. The fact that a certain illegal activity carries risk of bodily harm doesn't justify it, which was YOUR argument. Why do you say that we see abortion as similar to murder in self-defense? I didn't say that, at least not explicitly, so how did you reach that implication? Most pregnancies are safe, specially in the US. The medical complications that are life threatening are extremely rare and the actual abortions out of them are less than 5%(some go as low as 0.6%).
I don't accept the analogy of drunk driving. There is no reason to be drunk driving in the first place. Unless you are anti-sex, you can't say there is no reason to (attempt to) have non-procreative sex. We are sexual human beings and sex brings us closer. We should use birth control but it is not 100% effective and I don't think a woman should be forced to give birth because of a broken condom. We should not punish people for giving in to their natural urges and you cannot make a comparison to someone doing a horrible thing like drunk driving that serves no reason or purpose. This is just where we will always argue about the distinction between killing a person who is living and has an independent life vs. something that has not lived yet and is dependent on its host to survive and quite likely feels no pain. There is a big distinction there for me. I am not quite following you here. If the illegal activity you're saying I'm justifying is murder, I'm not sure what your point is. Murder is justified in self-defense. Sorry for the confusion, by "we" I meant we pro-choice people, as the other poster who responded to you here also made the self-defense argument. I'm not sure where you got this idea, but this is absolutely false. The U.S. ranks worst for maternal mortality compared to all other developed countries. Source This is a very common argument made by pro-life people that is just really missing the point. First of all, the number of life-saving abortions that are performed is not the point. 1,200 women die giving birth every year in the US. If an abortion could have saved these women, they would still be alive, but nothing was able to be done to save them. These are not all women who refused a recommended life-saving abortion. They are women who died because an unexpected complication happened during birth and nothing was able to be done to save them. Additionally, although many women do die from childbirth, it is not just about that, but also the discomforts, the trauma, the pain, the other medical but non life threatening risks of pregnancy that can be permanent. Also in that source 60,000 women had near fatal complications. No woman should have to face all these unknown potential risks because of a broken condom.
Well... the thing is that drunk driving is a consequence of excessive drinking. Drunk people don't make good choices because alcohol impairs your decision making. You're asking people to drink responsibly or don't drink at all. Which is the same as asking people to have sex responsibly or no sex at all. You're removing a human being off its personhood. I think I've touched on the issue of doing that. A baby doesn't have an independent life. It needs its parents for survival. Let a baby on its own and it will die. In fact, true independence does not exist. For example in order for us to have this debate I depended upon a lot of series of technological advances done by other people. I depend upon my internet provider, my electricity provider. I depend on my water provider(I have a filter). If none of them existed I would have to go and fetch water just in order to survive. Then I'd have to actually hunt something in order to survive. But I don't know how to hunt. So if I were truly independent of other human beings I would most likely end up dead. There indeed is a distinction. Just like there's a distinction between a 1 month old baby and a year old baby and a 5 year old kid and a 10 year old kid. The issue is: is that distinction justifying the killing of another human being? What is self-defense? If a kid throws a ball at me, am I justified in taking out a knife and stabbing him to death? In almost all cases of pregnancy in the US there's no risk of death for the mother so it's not a matter of self defense. Oh ok. My bad :P About where do I get my information, well almost any medical website.(https://www.ucsfhealth.org/conditions/high-risk_pregnancy/) It's known that pregnancy is a natural event that doesn't have much risk except in certain cases. A rank of 32th isn't a bad position. Worse in the developed countries. That doesn't mean bad. 1/1,800 BIRTHS(not pregnancies) is not imminent risk of death. You're stretching the self-defense argument. Even legally. Also you can make a very strong case that abortion is NOT safer than childbirth(http://findlawimages.com/efile/supreme/briefs/05-1382/05-1382.mer.ami.aclj.pdf). You say 1,200 women die giving birth every year. There are 4 million births in the US anually(https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/fastats/births.htm). 4,000,000 vs 1,200, you can see pregnancy is not a real concern medically. These are statistics, for whether abortion would have saved them, who knows? Maybe abortion would have saved some and killed others? Abortion kills other human beings 100%. Pregnancy doesn't. It's a bad argument. 60,000 near fatal complications vs 4,000,000. The risk is still low. And you're lumping a lot of things into a single category. What's the real number of permanent non-life threatining risk of pregnancy? The thing is that's not self defense either. It's a huge stretch of self defense that doesn't apply to anything else. No human being should have to permanently die because the mother doesn't want to take responsibility. The self-defense argument is a rationalization. The actual reasons for abortion have nothing to do with that preoccupation(https://www.guttmacher.org/sites/default/files/pdfs/journals/3711005.pdf). Most abortions are for lifestyle inconvenience or not wanting to be responsible for a baby and the lifestyle change that will mean.
A baby is an independent life, because if the mother doesn't want it, it can be given to someone else to raise. You are making a straw man. I am not saying that someone dependent on someone for care is not a person. If anybody in the world can do the caring, that person is still a free agent. Only the gestating mother can provide the care for the fetus, so that fetus is dependent on only that person. That is the distinction. This is just not true. And this is a really poor way of wording that you feel the risk is small. Pregnancy is risky and ignoring this because you feel the percentage isn't high enough for you to care about is really dismissive to what women go through. And it is not just about risk of death, but any bodily harm. As I said before, childbirth can be a traumatic thing and cause huge amounts of discomfort and sometimes permanent body changes to the woman. The vagina has a 95% chance of tearing. Is that a high enough percentage for you? There is no "very strong case" that abortion is not safer than childbirth. Anybody can write an amicus brief, they are biased sources written by lobbying groups, lawmakers, for-profit corporations, whoever. There aren't many rules about submitting them. That is not a valid source. It's full of bullshit arguments like risk of suicide after abortion. It then claims abortion mortality and birth mortality rates can't even be compared. It then cites "common sense" as a reason that surgery should be more risky than "natural childbirth." This article is ridiculous. Actual peer-reviewed, scientifically studied and published research articles show that abortion is much safer than pregnancy. I really don't get how you can call yourself pro-life and callously dismiss over a thousand women dying every single year. (And that's just in the US.) That honestly baffles me. Women have all sorts of reasons for wanting an abortion, so what? You asked us to argue why it isn't immoral so I'm arguing that there is risk to it. Obviously 4 million women a year happily take that risk, so it is something that a lot of women try not to think about.
Then I misunderstood your argument. Yes, there's a distinction for a baby inside the womb and for a baby not yet outside of the womb. Why is that distinction big enough that it justifies killing another human being? Does this go to a kind of "the baby is a parasite and the mother has the right to kill it" kind of argument? "This is just not true." Well, let's compare the numbers. There are more pregnancies than childbirths, because not all pregnancies end in childbirth. So we can say that there are more than 4 million pregnancies anually but let's stick to that figure, compared to 1,200 deaths. 1,200 is 0.03% of 4k so the risk of death by pregnancy is 0.03%. So, it's true that in almost all cases there's no risk of death. Yeah, childbirth is traumatic(although most people would say it's a positive experience and they repeat it) and uncomfortable. Why does that justify the killing of a human being you're responsible for? Oh I agree, there are multiple things I disagree with that document. But it does have valid points. The data given about abortions aren't as regulated as in hospitals so it's very likely it's unreliable. Risk of suicide after abortion needs to be factored in(that's not bullshit). Although I'm open to more information. Can you point towards a peer-reviewed, scientifically studied article or study showing that abortion is safer than pregnancy? There's also the fact that most abortions are categorized as 'unsafe' and it's one of the leading maternal rates causes. So abortion is not safer than pregnancy, although that counts for 'unsafe' abortions, which is where the data comes from. In 'safe' abortions as far as I know the number is 3%. Not really safe compared to the 0.03%. But I may be wrong on my numbers, so if you have a valid source that contradicts me can you point to it? It's not callously dismissing the women who die in complications during childbirth. It's horrible. But it still doesn't make the normal abortion ok. Many women die during abortions. That's horrible. Doesn't make abortion moral. There are around 600,000 abortions performed anually in the US. The risk of 1,200 women dying doesn't make the fact of 600,000 other human lives lost ok. If you're one of the woman at high risk and you want to abort I won't object. What I object to is the callously dismissing of the life of human beings inside the womb for superfluous reasons. They don't have all sorts of reasons. Most of the reasons fall down to a lifestyle change. So what? Well, it's more important to preserve the life of a human being that the mother is directly responsible for than that lifestyle change. As I've shown the risk is minimal. I'm not saying the lives of the people who lose their lives to it doesn't matter, they do. I'm saying the lives of the other people matter too. And one is a much higher number than the other.
I don't want to live in a society where all women who get pregnant by accident are forced to give birth. This is the biggest advancement we've had in the workplace in the last fifty years. Women should be able to have full control over when they have children or else we'll never have equality. You cannot predict whether you're going to face complications in childbirth. It is not only "high risk pregnancies" where the women die or face permanent complications. Pregnancy is complicated, it is not that predictable! You seem to have a poor conception of the risk of pregnancy (of which you'll never have to face). Let me explain it to you this way. I have horrible eyesight. To the point where I would literally fear for my life if I had to try to get home from work without glasses or contacts. Still I am not willing to face any potential risk of lasik surgery, no matter how small, it is not worth it to me. Many people choose to get this surgery, but that doesn't matter. I don't want to and I have autonomy over my body to not get this mildly risk surgery. So why would I choose to face a 95% chance of my vagina tearing, a very high risk of other permanent damage to my body, a moderate risk of health complications, and a small risk of dying, for a child I do not want and am not prepared to have, with a man I do not want to be stuck having a relationship with for the rest of my life? If I'm actually married, financially stable, and ready to start a family with the man I love, I may find that this risk is worth it. That is why you may find in those studies of reasons why women get abortions, they say things like "wasn't ready to be a mother", "can't afford it", "would interrupt my life" rather than things as specific as "I weighed the risk and benefits and decided I wasn't willing to risk it at this point in my life." Abortion is 14.6 times safer than childbirth
You're talking about a different thing I think. The equality/inequality of the work force is another subject that's unrelated to the morality of abortion. Well, I'm basing my conception of the risk of pregnancy on statistics and numbers. Also based on medics opinion. Medics say pregnancy is a natural and safe event. The fact that I'll never face pregnancy doesn't mean I can't speak about it. It's true, someone who has gone through pregnancy will have more anecdotal experience about it than me. Doesn't make her an expert though and she may still say false things. The difference between the lasik surgery and abortion is that on one you're not killing another human being and on the other one you are. It's a colossal difference. Why? Because you don't get to avoid responsibility for your actions by killing another human being based on your convenience. I agree that most women who have abortions follow the same line of thought and it's what I've said. It's convenience and lifestyle. It's never "I'm afraid I'll die from childbirth based on a medical complication" it's "not ready to be a mother", etc... Convenience vs death. I learned something today. I now agree that abortion is safer than childbirth with some caveats. Well, only one really. How can we know the data from abortions is accurate? Basing on https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2709326/. Even on the link it says that gathering data about abortions compared to childbirth is challenging. There's no way to know what the real data is. Other than that, I agree. In fact it made me think if maybe, even though it's immoral, it would be better if we made abortion legal in order to prevent maternal death as (and this is key) it doesn't appear to affect the number of abortions. A little more research will be needed. Another issue I have with abortion is that what if everyone decided to have an abortion? Humanity would destroy itself in a single generation. That can't be right, obviously. It's an argument I've given some thought but not that much so it could have a fatal flaw I haven't considered

"Most abortions are for lifestyle inconvenience or not wanting to be responsible for a baby and the lifestyle change that will mean." So?  Both reasons are perfectly valid for choosing abortion.  Whether or not the "pro-life" crowd approves of those reasons is irrelevant.
We're here to argue, that is with arguments. You've provided a statement not an argument. If abortion is murder, then NO, murdering for lifestyle inconvenience is not perfectly valid. I doubt you'd agree to dismembering a 4 year old if for any reason it's inconvenient for her lifestyle.
I don't buy the argument that "abortion is murder," I never have.  The way I see it, abortion is the termination of an unwanted pregnancy, nothing more, nothing less.  And since it is the WOMAN who takes on all the health risks and potentially life-threatening complications of pregnancy, then only each woman who is pregnant has the right to decide for herself whether or not to continue it. If a woman prefers to go to college or continue in a good job or career rather than stay pregnant, give birth, and be a mother, that's her decision as well.  And yes, it IS a perfectly valid reason for having an abortion.   Your calling it "lifestyle inconvenience" doesn't remove her right to make that decision.
What is the difference between killing 4 year old, a 1 year old, or a fetus? Why are the first two cases murder and the last one isn't?

"The medical complications that are life threatening are extremely rare and the actual abortions out of them are less than 5%(some go as low as 0.6%)." Really; I'd love to see what source produced this "extremely rare" statistic.   Personally, I think the life-threatening medical complications from pregnancy are a lot higher than what the "pro-life" crowd would have us believe. No matter what you or anyone else chooses to believe about pregnancy, it is still EACH woman's right to decide for herself what to do if it happens to her.  And she has the right to have an abortion for any reason, including the two most basic ones:  1. "I don't want to be pregnant," and 2. "I don't want a baby."
In a way we can decide what happens to us, that stops or is limited when other people are present are affected by our decisions. You do accept this, right?
I don't buy the personhood arguments either, and I stand by what I said in my previous post.  Which is that EACH woman who is pregnant has the right to decide for herself whether she will continue the pregnancy or not.  Neither you nor any "pro-lifer" has the right to make that choice for her.
Do you think that a fertilized embryo made up of 4 cells is a human being?
I think it's not a matter of philosophy or opinion but rather it's a scientific question. The answer is that yes, it's a human being, it's a living organism, member of the human(homo sapiens) species. I'm not a biologist(in fact I failed biology when I was 12, because I missed the main exam because I skipped school with some friends) Maybe your question was more in the likes of "Do you think that a fertilized embryo made up of 4 cells is a person?"
No, that isn't my question at all. Just because something is made up of living human cells doesn't make it a human being. If you were able to cut someone's hand off and keep it alive via machinery, that would be a living organism of the human species, but not a human being.
A hand cut off doesn't count as a living human organism by any biologist. It's not a living organism. It has human life as in the cells. But the hand is not a living organism. If you disagree with this then you're disagreeing with basic biological facts, not me.
Then how can you say an embryo made of 4 cells is an organism? By what definition is it an organism any more than a hunk of cancer cells is an organism?
I'm not a biologist as I've said. I'm no expert in the developmental process of animals(including humans) or in biology. But it's the undiscussed consensus in biology. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2672893/ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fetus https://www.princeton.edu/~prolife/articles/wdhbb.html http://www.biology-online.org/dictionary/Human http://www.lifenews.com/2015/01/08/41-quotes-from-medical-textbooks-prove-human-life-begins-at-conception/
I guess I don't know why I even went down this line of questioning because bodily autonomy makes it moot. No one can be forced to give any part of their body to another human being, even their own child, and even if it means the being would die. You may personally think they have a moral obligation to do so, but laws and morals are not the same thing.
Morals should dictate laws. Anyways, I'm talking about the morality of abortion, not the legality of it. It doesn't make it moot. We restrict autonomy(of which bodily autonomy is a subset) AND bodily autonomy. I can't go around jerking off in public or peeing into people, or I can't go around having unprotected sex while knowing I have AIDS. It is my body, but it conflicts with other people's rights, so that's where we put a line. Why is bodily autonomy supreme for many pro-choicers? Why is it any different that any other kind of autonomy? Also, what about the baby's bodily autonomy? You can't kill it without infringing on its own bodily autonomy.
When they invent artificial wombs so that zygotes can be removed from the woman without dying, then zygotes can have bodily autonomy. You can not force anyone to give any part of their body or fluids to any other human. Period. End of story.
Again with the pretending that you have proved a fetus is a  baby.  Tsk tsk.  The crimes you cite have victims that everyone agrees are people and human beings.  Everyone does not agree when a fetus becomes a person (or human, as your semantics games dictate).  Everyone does not agree that harm or suffering is occurring to fetuses when they are aborted.  It is not cut and dry like other crimes in which bodily autonomy is restricted.
As I said harm and suffering are two related but different concepts. I can harm you while you don't suffer from it. I can make you suffer without physically harming you(with words). We make animals suffer and we harm them. We harm plants too. We don't see those things as immoral as doing it to another human being.

Most abortion occur in the early stages e.g. six weeks the embryo is lentil sized, it's disingenuous to compare an embryo with a baby
A large number of abortions, but I think you are mistaken on your data. Not most of them are done within 6 weeks. Does the size matter? I would argue that by saying that it's disingenuous to compare a toddler for example, with a 70 year old man. The point being that you can't kill any of those. Also I'd like to know how you arrived at the conclusion that I'm comparing an embryo with a baby? Is it because I'm saying unborn baby? If so, that's just semantics, 'baby' is a word for a human being during a certain developmental stage, fetus and unborn baby are also words for a human being at another certain developmental stage. If not, then I'm saying, just like a 70 year old man that measures on the 2 meters has rights, so does a 5 year old kid, so does a 1 year old kid, so does a second born baby, so does a fetus.

source 1 is written by a legal scholar/political philosopher and philosophy professor, both appear to be quite Catholic.  It's not a scientific source, and citing it as such indicates that you do not know how to identify a legitimate scientific source. Source 2 is wikipedia... Source 3 appears to be from the International Journal of Sociology and Social Policy.  Again, not a journal focused on biology. Source 4 doesn't say anything about when human life begins. Source 5 is a pro-life website, and the first sentence is "Here is a list of 41 quotes from medical experts and medical textbooks that prove human life begins at conception/fertilization." Which reads as a list of some quotes (mostly context-free) that don't actually prove anything. If your goal is to improve your debate abilities, I would start with locating legitimate sources for making your points.
It's not a living being. It isn't breathing. It is a parasite that cannot survive outside of the womb.
Both arguments are asinine. Take a basic high school textbook or ask any biologist whether fetuses are alive or not. It's not a parasite. Again ask any biologist whether a baby is a parasite and see them laugh in your face. Not only is it not biologically true it's also philosophically stupid. You're changing what words mean and contradicting basic science to fit your own ideology, while also failing to grasp what the real points of my arguments were. As it is, I've already wasted my time, and refuse to was it further by arguing with someone who says something like 'a fetus is a parasite' or 'it's not a living being'.
I take 5 psych meds. If I accidently become pregnant, I have to immediately go cold turkey and suffer horrible withdrawals. But that's not the worst part. The worst part is my brain chemistry being off and me likely killing myself. So guess what? Abortion is the way to go there and I wouldn't feel guilty for a second.
If you are responsible about your own sexuality you have a chance of getting pregnant of %0.03 over a decade having the usual number of partners. At %0.03 over a decade(it's lower let's say this year which would be something like %0.00x, but it increments over a decade up until 0.03) you are not getting accidentally pregnant. And the crux of the matter is whether abortion equates to murder or not. If it does then your whole argument is flawed because you don't get to kill people because your brain chemistry being off. Or because you want to get laid. If you have a horrible condition where you being pregnant leads to having to murder a human being, it's unfortunate but you don't get to murder them. If you had AIDS you wouldn't get to go around infecting other people because you want to get laid. If you wouldn't feel guilty it doesn't take the immorality of murder from it. So you have to say why it isn't murder as the default of killing an individual human being equates to murder
OK, so let's have a mentally ill person go off their meds because they are being forced to give birth. That sounds like a great start to a new life. So we should just ban all people with medical problems from having sex. You sound incredibly closed minded. Also, you didn't answer whether you'll be paying for all of my care and the child since you are forcing me to give birth.
You are not addressing my argument. That's not a counter argument. It again isn't a real counter argument. Your case is comparable to the case of someone having AIDS. They are banned from infecting other people. I'm not saying you're should be banned for getting sex even, because as I said it's almost impossible to get pregnant with proper birth control. If you get pregnant because you were careless or didn't educate yourself enough, then you don't get to murder another individual. Address that and make a proper argument if you want a proper response. Not really, I just don't like wasting my time. BTW I don't think you as an individual are stupid, but your first comments were, and also they were extremely ignorant. As I said, it's almost impossible for you to get pregnant over a decade if you use proper birth control. If you fail to use birth control, don't blame it on me. You're also responsible under the law. But hey, if the alternative for your irresponsibility and murder is for me to take care of it, I would say it's not right for me to take care of it but I would if it say that if it's the last resort then yes, I think I would take care of it
Birth control isn't 100% effective. I got pregnant on the pill, taken the same time every single day since I was 15. The choice to have an abortion is between a woman and her doctor. That's it. My body, my choice. Its a fetus and it isn't murder. There is absolutely no changing my mind.
That's because you're only using one method of birth control, there are many. I've done the math and for a whole decade of having regular sex implementing synergistic regular birth control methods(such as Fertility Awareness, etc..) only 3 women of 10,000 will get pregnant. That's virtually impossible for you to get pregnant. You're spewing statements not arguments. Not a single one of those 3 statements has any reasoning behind them, they're only statements. And I'm the close minded... Sure... I should have been more close minded, I thought you would be reasonable and actually argument in a debate rather than spew statements, many of those factually wrong. And the rest making no sense. Have a nice day
So now you're telling women what birth control they should use? No. I believe in women's rights over their body. That's not closed minded. You seem so keen on calling everyone stupid and wrong when you're actually embarrassing yourself. Speaking of close mindedness, if someone posted this in /r/prolife, they would be banned immediately.
But you're failing to grasp the issue of the debate. I don't care what birth control you use as long as it's effective. If you chose an ineffective birth control method, you don't get to kill another human being. That's what responsibility means. Saying "There is absolutely no changing my mind." is clearly being close-minded. I'm not sure what a better example of being close minded there is than that person implying 'my mind is closed'. I'm not calling everyone stupid and wrong. I'm calling your arguments stupid and ignorant, which of course means that they are wrong. I said I was pro-life in the sense of being against abortion. I understand now that there's a whole movement related to that, which extends to more than just being against abortion and has political and religious motivations. I don't care about that and I'm not affiliated to that movement. So if you go to that subreddit intending to have an open discussion and are banned then I agree with you that it's being close minded. As it is, I don't know much, if anything, of that subreddit so I'll just take your word for it. Doesn't make the statement "There is absolutely no changing my mind." any less close-minded, though.
Here's a sneak peek of /r/prolife using the top posts of the year! #1: How it feels being pro-life | 61 comments#2: Peter Hitchens on Abortion. | 37 comments#3: BREAKING: Trump to end Obama funding of foreign abortions by Sunday, claims report | 10 comments I'm a bot, beep boop | Downvote to remove | Contact ^^me | ^^Info | ^^Opt-out
do you have a source and/or can you show your work for your 3 women out of 10,000 figure?
Don't forget women. You're claiming that humankind's ability to view other humans as "others" and rob them of their personhood leads to mass violence such as genocide or slavery. You're right. But don't forget about robbing women of their personhood. Carrying a pregnancy to term for 9 months requires women to endure some combination of all of this: Normal, frequent or expectable temporary side effects of pregnancy: Normal, expectable, or frequent PERMANENT side effects of pregnancy: Occasional complications and side effects: Less common (but serious) complications: More permanent side effects: link To me, that's the torture and enslavement of women to force them to undergo a combination of all of that against their will, ending in labor, which is the most painful experience the average woman will ever have. To me, one has to view women as subhuman and rob them of their personhood in order to say that the existence of an embryo or fetus means that women have to allow their bodies to be used against their will for the development of the embryo or fetus.
See a larger list of complications due to Viagra(first example that popped to my mind, there are far safer medications that have also a long list of possible complications)(https://www.drugs.com/sfx/viagra-side-effects.html). Yet Viagra is widely considered safe to use by experts. The crux of the matter is whether or not a fetus is a human being. All of those things(except for the more permanent side effects, which are extremely uncommon) are way preferable than death. 100% of abortions end in the death of a human being. I don't see women as subhuman or that they aren't persons. In most pregnancies there are no complications and medics deem pregnancy as a natural and safe event(more so than Viagra). You're conflating the extremely low risk of a major complication to the certainty of death of another human being. I would say that's an argument suffering from the false equivalence fallacy.
Not it isn't because one human being doesn't have the right to forcefully use another human being's body against that person's will. You attempt to minimize the severity of pregnancy several times in your post. Why? To you it seems like it doesn't matter how severe pregnancy is because a fetus matters more to you than a woman. Let pregnancy be as torturous and risky and painful to women as it is, doesn't matter, because the fetus matters more. A fetus that doesn't even know it exists and won't know when it doesn't exist and isn't even guaranteed to develop properly and make it to birth anyway even when abortion isn't a factor - that fetus matters more to you than women, and you're willing to torture women and make them suffer in order to ensure that all fetuses are developed into babies and are born. Regardless, even as you don't care how much women are tortured by pregnancy, you still try to minimize it, and you're incorrect. Pregnancy complications are normal, not rare. When you aren't allowed to work, cook, clean, or get out of bed for any reason other than to pee for several months or else you could go into early labor.
More important than "one human being doesn't have the right to forcefully use another human being's body against that person's will" is "one human being doesn't have the right to forcefully dismember another human being's body against that person's will" From your link: From that link there are three major complications studied. Hypertensive Disorders which range of levels of severity. Are disorders good? Death is way worse. I'm not saying that pain and difficulty in pregnancy does not matter, I'm saying it's not comparable to certainty of death. Is high blood pressure good? No, but it's not comparable to being dismembered alive. A rate of 86 in 1000(it's not a single complications, it's three complications into one) is high indeed, but you have to study the data. Amongst those complications there are mild and severe ones. For example gestational hypertension develops into a severe condition which is preeclampsia. Gestational hypertension is not a major complication and it goes away a few weeks after birth. If it doesn't it can turn into preeclampsia which is medically recognized as a high-risk pregnancy(if you get pregnant, of course). But the rate of that is not 86 for preeclampsia. Specially in the US. Preeclampsia is one of the biggest issues with pregnancy and it's an estimated 3% of pregnancies. The other two complications in that article are hemmorage and embolism with 0.38% and 0.04% of happening. That's what counts as rare. Does that mean they don't matter? Of course not, in a personal, humanistic way. But statistically it's not relevant. You don't fear lightning falling in you while walking the street not because it doesn't happen but because it's not relevant. OF COURSE pregnancy is complicated and a hardship, that doesn't make it medically dangerous in the developed world except in rare cases as I showed. It is painful thought and throughout the pregnancy it's very uncomfortable and at times very painful. Yet, doctors with studies and experience aren't discouraging pregnancies, they say it's a natural and safe event. They don't share the same view as you, that should tell you something.
Except men aren't forced to take viagra
You've failed to understand the point. The point was that everything has risk but there are things which are considered fatal because of the high risk involved in them(that's why some medication is considered to be unsafe) but some aren't even though they do have a risk of being fatal.
I think you are just reaching because deep down you know forcing a woman to give birth is wrong. Will you pay for my prenatal care and maternity clothes? How about the birth itself? Will you pay for my cosmetic surgery and personal trainers to get my body back? Will you pay for the upbringing of the child? No? Well it's none of your business what I do with my uterus.
My uterus, my choice. Don't like abortion? Don't get one. But don't you dare sit here and tell me that I don't have the right to choose what happens with my body, because I know what's best for my life. You and your disgusting politicians do not. You do realize that if abortion were illegal, that women are going to do it anyway. Not allowing women safe abortions will only cause more danger to her and her health. I'm on medications for bi-polar, anxiety, and depression. Medications that are NOT safe one bit for a fetus. So, if I were to get pregnant, I would need to go off of these medications immediately if I didn't want this fetus to turn into a disabled child. These are meds that if I were to go off of cold turkey, I would become a danger to myself and likely to others. So, how does a non-sentient clump of cells have the right to dictate my mental health, my safety, and the safety of those around me? Hint: it doesn't. If I were to get pregnant, I'd have an abortion as soon as possible. If it ever comes to the point where abortion is not legal, or the weeks to get  is drastically restricted and I miss it, I'd either abort it myself or kill myself. I'd rather die than be pregnant and there are a lot more women out there who feel the same way but aren't as open about it.
That's also another extremely weak argument. Don't like murder? Don't get one. Don't like slavery? Don't own a slave. Don't like loud music while you're trying to sleep? Don't put on loud music while you're trying to sleep. Don't like cigarette smoke? Don't smoke. I actually don't agree that people know what's best for them(an example of that are addictions, kinda like the cigarette example), but I agree that they should have the freedom to do so if they don't conflict with the freedom of other people.
You see, it is an argument, not a propagandistic slogan. It's my body, therefore I decide what I get to do with it. You don't see me telling you what you can do with your body. The fact that as a man, you're trying to tell me, a woman, what my rights are, is disgusting. Oh go screw yourself, you misogynistic asshole. My uterus doesn't involve you. It involves ME and no one else. I have the right to decide what happens to my health. The fact that you think a clump of cells, that hasn't even existed yet, has no memory, no central nervous system, not even a brain or a developed anything, takes priority over me, an already exiting, sentient, human being, is disgusting. And, the fact that you're questioning whether or not I know what's best for my body is absurd. Please go on about how you know me, an internet stranger, and what's right for my life. :) You are clinically insane if you think you know what's best for everyone. Go focus on yourself instead of getting all butt-hurt about everyone else's decisions and what they choose to do with their life. Alright, now I officially think you're an evil pile of shit. You give no fucks as to whether or  a woman's life is in danger, as long as it "saves" a fantasy, non-existent parasite? Go fuck yourself. Lol! So once again, I guess a clump of parasitic cells that hasn't even existed a real life, has the right to take control over my body and mental health. I'll say it again, I am an existing human being that has already established a life. A couple day old fetus is not on the same level. It has no life and depends on me to stay alive, therefore I make the choice. I already stated, if I didn't want this hypothetical fetus to turn into a severely disabled child, I would need to go cold turkey. I am on such a high dosage that it would take two years to go off these medications. Which in case you didn't know, would be well beyond the 9 month human gestation period. I'm not an idiot, I know how to prevent pregnancy. Just so you know, birth control does fail, even when used properly and regularly. Thanks for taking so much interest in my sex life. :) I had no idea it was so fascinating to you. So as a male, you have no rights in telling me what is best for my body. I know my life and body better than you do, so stop trying to convince me I'm wrong because you're the one that has a problem with women taking control over their health. :) Stop assuming that just because we want the right to abortion means we're all evil people who are irrepaonsible in their sexual and reproductive health. I do everything I can to make sure pregnancy is prevented, thank you very much. But if for some reason that fails, I'm aborting whether you and your misogynistic, crazy conservatives like it or not.
I'd continue, but honestly, your emotions are all over the place making you not only rude but also making you say stupid things, and while entertaining it's time consuming. I anticipate your response of 'go fuck yourself, you misogynistic pig', to which I'll respond 'I do wish I could'
Maybe women get emotionally invested in this topic because it concerns their rights to their body? Ever think of that one? My emotions are all over the place....way to go, using the "you're a woman and too emotional to have an opinion" stance. I think the only rude one here is the one promoting reproductive coercion. Just because you are a male and will never have to worry about your rights being taken away because you will never be the one to carry a fetus, doesn't mean I can't worry about the future of my rights.
Not all women, in fact, most women I know get emotionally invested AGAINST abortion while still being concerned for their own bodily autonomy. I didn't say because you're a woman. Your own stupid preconceptions filled that one in. Furthermore I didn't say you were too emotional to have an opinion. I said you were emotional, which ends up blinding your own arguments and logic, and that's why you said such things. But another possibility is that your emotional bias has nothing to do with this and you made those weak arguments all on your own. Not true, calling someone a misogynistic asshole is very rude, so even if I were alsorude doesn't make me the only rude. "Just because you are a male" Are you sexually discriminating against me? "You're a man so you can't have an opinion". Interestingly I never once stated(or believe) that because you're a woman you're not entitled to an opinion and yet you're the one that's actually sexually discriminating me. Sure you'll give a weak reason for why it's ok to sexually discriminate against men, but I'm just amused at your position. I don't know or ever will be what it means to be vaginally raped. Does that mean I can't defend rape victims or condemn rape? Your logic is dumbfounding
In case you didn't know, it's absolutely possible to be emotionally invested in a topic while still having logic. You are the one who lacks logic, seeing as you don't give a shit about whether or not women have basic rights for their bodies. I'm not discriminating against you because you're a male. What I am saying is that men have no right telling women what rights their bodies are entitled to. You really expected me to give a reason why I think it's ok to discriminate against men. Discrimination of any sort is wrong and there is never an ok time to discriminate. But because I support the right to choose must automatically make me support all sorts of other bad things that happen in this world. Not. The only person who's logic is dumbfounding is the the one who thinks a non-existent, hypothetical fantasy has more rights than an existing human being.
" In case you didn't know, it's absolutely possible to be emotionally invested in a topic while still having logic. You are the one who lacks logic, seeing as you don't give a shit about whether or not women have basic rights for their bodies." Oh of course, it's also possible to be furious and still remain logic. It's hard to so though. And I said about the logic of your arguments because they're illogical and many by definition aren't even arguments, while you thought they were. There's a whole debate about rights, or rather than debate an interesting conversation to be had. But I'm not denying women have a right to their bodies, I'm saying it's not an absolute right, like any other right. Rights have limitations. For example, am I being denied my right if the police tells me to stop peeing into other people? After all, it's my dick, it's my body and it's a natural process. It's nobody's business what I do with my body or where I do it, right? Wrong. If saying 'you're a male, you don't have a right for opinion', you're not actually debating the argument, you're discriminating the debater based on the sex. With the same argument, if I were a woman you wouldn't have said that. If you don't recognize discrimination then I ask you, what is discrimination? If someone says 'you're a black person, you can't opine on this issue' would you consider that discrimination? That's a straw man and non-sensical. I never stated that you are supporting all sorts of other bad things that happen in the world. Didn't I just prove in my previous remarks that a fetus is existent? A fetus is alive To exist == to be alive. Hence a fetus exists. Your mind accepts the 2 statements, but fails to connect them into their unarguable logical conclusion. You have to accept either that the premise 1 is false or the premise 2 is false or that your mind didn't follow logic. If you reject premise 1 you're in the wrong because it's a biological fact that fetuses are alive(hence why you're coughs killing them). If you reject premise 2 you're arguing against the meaning of the word. Good luck there, champ! If you don't reject those premises but don't accept the logically sound conclusion then you don't understand logic. Furthermore, if you think the fetus doesn't exist, what are you even arguing against? You can't abort a non-existent thing by definition. Go ahead and tell me how my logic is the one's that dumbfounding....
Also, I would like to add one more thing: just because someone is pro-choice does not make them pro-abortion. No woman happily makes the decision to have an abortion. If you want to look at ways to stop abortion, maybe you should start investing your time in educating people about birth control and how to make it more affordable and accessible, rather than sitting here trying to convince us we shouldn't have rights for our bodies.
If you defend abortion you are being pro that(in favour of). That doesn't mean you are happy to make a decision, but you are defending that decision and that course of action, so you are being pro that decision or course of action. If that decision or course of action is abortion, then you are indeed being pro-abortion. I've known women who have happily made the decision and are proud of it and have no issues performing an abortion. If the fetus isn't alive/a person, why wouldn't you happily make the decision to have an abortion? I agree birth control needs to happen, but I can't make people choose to have birth control or not. I don't know if that woman is trying to get pregnant or not or doesn't care. I'm saying NO right(your body is no special exception) is absolute. Let me ask you a question, why do you think there's a need for civilization and laws?

That is your opinion. If you don't like the arguments I present, that doesn't make them not an argument. Just because I don't like mushrooms doesn't make it not a food. If you think a basic human right to bodily autonomy is illogical, I don't know what else I can say to you. Women's rights to their bodies is not an absolute right? Ok, well by that logic, your right to vote, right to get  equal access to education or a job, your right to own a firearm, your right to freedom from slavery, are not all absolute rights and therefore not important. I'm bringing up the fact that you're a male because as a female, I know what's best for my female body better than a man does. The same goes for you. As a male, you know what's best for your male body than a female does. I think we all know what discrimination is. That's not what this debate is about so I'm not going there. Yes, a fetus exists. But to exist does not equal being alive. My couch exists but my couch is not alive. I'm not comparing a fetus to a couch but I'm simply letting you know that existing is not the same as being alive. When I say non-existent, I mean that it's not a person existing. This comes down to personhood.  A human being is not existing in my womb if I were to be pregnant. Yes a fetus is alive but that does not make it a person, the same way as plankton is alive but it is not a person.
"My uterus/body.My choice" Is not an argument. An argument is a statement followed by reasons. My uterus/My choice is only a statement, hence, objectively it's not an argument, it's not a matter of opinion. I never stated that bodily autonomy is illogical. I stated that it's not a supreme right towering above all others. Do you not see the difference or are you just trolling? Yes, most of those are not recognized by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Owning a firearm is not an Universal Human Right. There are Universal Human Rights, which is what I'm talking about when I talk about the right to human life and there are other kinds of rights your own nation's, state laws might provide. You're confounding absolute with universal. No right is absolute. If I threaten you to death and a police shot me, he has infringed upon my right to life, but that right is not absolute(total) because it has limitations, just like in the peeing example I said and you ignored because it was convenient or because it didn't allow you to misinterpret my argument, I don't know which of the both it was. I thought so too, but apparently you don't know what discrimination is because you're doing it and defending it. Well as I said, dictionary definitions are incomplete. Context matters. You said 'non-existent' not 'does not exist', something 'having existence' is something 'being alive'. Definition of 'existence': So the couch exists because it's real. But the fetus exists because it's living. Under both meanings a fetus exists. So you're redefining words? Where in any dictionary does it say that existence means to have personhood? I know what you meant, I'm saying you expressed the wrong idea. I've already shown why a fetus is a human being. It's existing. It's existing while in your womb. Hence a human being exists in your womb. Maybe you would have expressed your original argument as 'person' rather than fetus or human being, because both are objectively existing. What makes something a person I might ask?
So you want to force women to risk their lives, permanently change their bodies and possibly be under financial stress? That's forced birth and it isn't right.
Despite your protestations, is not standard in the US/western society to consider bodily autonomy to be secondary to right to life. Examples: You can be sentenced to death with due process, but you cannot be sentenced to medical experimentation, organ donation, or even blood donation; these are considered cruel and unusual punishments. There is no legal precedent for forcing someone to relinquish use of their organs for any reason at all. If you stab someone in the kidney, you can be punished for stabbing them, but not forced to give them yours. All forms of body donation are fully voluntary. There is no legal requirement to donate blood or bone marrow, even though these are life-saving donations with relatively small physical consequence for most people. You (and your next of kin) retain control over your remains after your death, even if donating them would save lives, or in the case of medical research, many lives. Killing people in self defense is considered permissible, and not considered murder. You cannot choose to sell yourself into slavery, even if that money were to be used for a life-saving medication for you or a family member. Even if you consent to organ donation or medical experimentation, these are not enforceable contracts, even if someone's life is at risk. You can back out at any time up until the organ is removed from your body. You do not need to finish medical trials you start. Saying that bodily autonomy is secondary to right to life flies in the face of legal precedent regarding the use of one's body and organs. This is because civilized society depends on us treating individual bodily autonomy as sacrosanct. If we don't, people could be subject to rank utilitarianism, where the government decides that your organs would do more good with someone else. A truly terrifying thought. Bodily autonomy also allows us to preference the intact, already functioning body over the more precariously situated recipient and gives people freedom to use their bodies fully to pursue varied life choices, rather than having their lives forcible disrupted whenever someone needs a bone marrow transplant. It allows us to plan for our future, determine our own level of risk, assign our own understanding of purpose to our bodies and lives.  It gives a vehicle through which to be a moral actors, as all of us has something that is fully ours, that can be kept, given or sacrificed at our own will, according to our own priorities. It acknowledges that if any of us are to have any self-determination whatsoever, we must be the captains of our own bodies. It also acknowledges the fundamental drive that people have toward bodily autonomy. Even people who are willing to die for a cause or another person retain their belief in themselves as moral actors who set their own purpose and conditions for the sacrifice that they make.  They embrace the choice that they make without relinquishing the right to make the choice.
I'm not sure what you're meaning by bodily autonomy. Maybe we should start with that, because what you seem to be portraying is more into bodily integrity, which some people say it's the same concept, so it would be a good thing if you can define that bodily autonomy and what it entails. For example, does sex and masturbation, peeing, etc...(bodily functions/needs/wants) are covered in that bodily autonomy/integrity of yours? I also don't have clear why you're lumping the self-defense scenario into the bodily autonomy/integrity. Maybe that will be clearer if you define it. Also, the fact that I can't sell myself in slavery is not in and of itself an argument against bodily argument/integrity? The government is telling me what I can do or not do with myself. Besides that, you make a good case for bodily integrity on a legal basis in your country and while it's important to the conversation, the main issue I'm talking about it's the morality/rationality rather than the legality of things. The primary scenarios you mentioned have to do with the donation of your own organs, and I agree that it's important for us to have a decision on it, but I see abortion having some key differences and why the justification is enough, important and relevant. But before doing that I think important to say that there are certain scenarios you mentioned where there are things that are legal but its morality is dubious. For example, in case of death the non-donation of organs seems to me immoral, even though it's legal, as it doesn't actually infringe on anyone's rights as that person is dead. I would also believe the morality for not donating to someone who needs it, when there's no fatal risk for you. But here's another key difference: passive obligation vs active obligation, and by the way, this is relevant also to the legality issue. There's a difference between loitering not being allowed vs forcing the citizens to pick any piece of trash in the street. There's a difference between actively killing a fetus and not giving an organ to a fetus for example. There's also a difference between the responsibility of the parents vs a stranger. Pregnancy is a special case unlike any other I can think of, because of the natural bodily dependence of the fetus, so I can't think of any similar case but it's not important, let's say an hypothetical. If for some reason I provoke a scenario where my son needs me to donate blood for him once or he will die. Is it immoral for me to refuse it on the basis that I don't really want to stop eating for some hours(a requirement for donation)? At the very least there's a clear distinction between this scenario and me having to donate to everyone. Not only morally but also legally. It's clear that autonomy is more important than bodily autonomy. Autonomy of actions, the freedom it provides is more valuable than the bodily one, and the bodily one arises from the value of autonomy of decisions. Yet, if for some reason I were stuck in a winter storm in a cabin with a toddler and I knew that in a few weeks the storm would be gone and the parents would come for the baby, am I morally obliged to not let the toddler die? Isn't the case stronger if I were the cause of the toddler being in that scenario? Both autonomy or bodily autonomy are important, but neither are absolute. I agree though on your correction that human life > bodily autonomy, but only on the passive cases and in certain ones.
I have given loads of examples. The right to control what happens with your organs, blood, the right to maintain the integrity of your body as belonging wholly to you (with no need to timeshare)
Yes, you've given loads of examples, but what I asked is not for examples but for a clear definition of what you mean, which you've now stated. You talked about the importance of bodily integrity(which I don't deny) but you haven't addressed my other remarks, which are a response to your argument. I would also like to say that the reason why bodily integrity is important is why a bunch of other things are important, specially the right to property. All that you say about the importance bodily integrity applies directly to the right to be the lord of your own land(the key concept here is sovereignty over self and things that belong to it), wouldn't you say?
I think that the right of a person to his/her own body far supersedes the right to property. Owning your body and being allowed to make decisions about it is a key component of free will, self determination, and being a moral actor.
Yes, you are right that you owning a body and being allowed to make decisions about it is a key component for all of those things, mainly because of movement. An individual that doesn't move can't take action. An individual that doesn't take action can't really exercise his free will, self-determination or be a moral agent(besides ideas). But bodily integrity doesn't really relate to that exactly, that's the area of bodily autonomy, which is why I separated both of them. That's the difference it has between owning a land, exercising your free will over it and self-determination. If you only mean bodily integrity, they're virtually identical in rights(land-body). If you mean autonomy, then of course, bodily autonomy is far superior than "property-autonomy". The main importance is on bodily autonomy rather than bodily integrity(as soverignty over your property, and soverignty over your body are virtually the same in essence and rights, as they are soverignty over the things you own other than your mind). Do we agree on this?
I think that owning your body is far more fundamental than owning property and much more akin to owning your mind. I'm not much into Cartesian dualism. Your body is you. If you don't own it completely, you aren't your own person. The capacity to own your body is therefore much stronger than the right to freedom of movement. Freedom of movement can be limited in lots of ways and situations because it usually involves something that isn't completely yours (namely, the environment or community you are moving in).
The reasons you gave of why bodily autonomy is important they all have to do strictly with movement and what it enables you to do, rather than of the body itself. If you can't move/speak then the reasons you gave of why it's important are nullified. That means that its importance is not intrinsic to the body itself but rather to the functionality it gives you. I'm still not sure why bodily integrity is so important and how it ties exactly to the abortion debate. You can get to choose not to give your organs away because if you do you die in most cases(except a few of them) and you can't get them back. Donating is an active choice outward in your part, while your body nourishing a fetus is an internal process in which your body isn't asking for your choice and you can't stop doing it. What abortions does is kill the baby rather than you stopping the nourishment of it. They are distinct cases so aren't really equivalent. Furthermore I'm asking for more clarification about the bodily autonomy right. It's clear that restriction of movement can be limited, but the movement of the body being an integral part of the bodily autonomy right, how then do you justify the permission of that restriction of movement? My previous example still applies, autonomy of my body also implies autonomy of its bodily functions, that is to say, if I wish to pee in a tree, I can, and if you influence with that you're restricting my autonomy. That is clear when speaking of its autonomy, so if there's something that I'm missing or you have a reason of why that restriction of autonomy is correct(or at least not really an infringement of the right of bodily autonomy). Also because many women pro-abortion equate it to the right for example of sex, and while is true that the right to sex with whoever you want-or to be more exact, the right to choose your sexual partners and your sexual activity as you see fit- belongs to the right of bodily autonomy, it's clear that right is not absolute. If that's not what you mean by bodily autonomy too, then within that movement there's a confusion of terms.
Who is mandated to give blood or bone marrow?  Ever? Is it possible that you don't understand how central a uterus is to a woman's body?  Is it possible that you don't understand that pregnancy changes impact nearly every bodily system: respiratory, neurological, gastrointestinal, cardiovascular?  Pregnancy involves giving the fetus unfettered access to the woman's arterial blood supply, causing permanent autoimmune changes, and reduction in bone density. Even a woman's hair growth and shoe size are impacted by pregnancy. The two main types of abortion involve either scraping the lining of the uterus or causing the lining to shed, separating the fetus from the uterus. It is absolutely akin to stopping nourishment. If the fetus were able to live without the uterus, it would. But the uterus belongs to the woman. The blood and in the woman's arteries and calcium in her bones are hers. And it is impossible to be passive in relation to one's own body. Is eating an active thing or is refusing to eat more active? Is falling active or passive? Urinating?  Breathing? Taking medicine?  Staying in bed all day? Leaving your house and going to work? Is running from a predator active or passive? People must decide with their bodies, what types/how much risk to expose them to, how much care to give them and how to prioritize that care. They literally cannot walk away from their bodies to let them do their own thing. It's nonsensical to suggest that a woman is required to remain a passive bystander in her own body.
Not sure what you mean by this. I do understand this, but unfortunately you didn't understand my point, so let me clarify it. Obviously I understand the woman is giving to the fetus, but what I actually said is that she doesn't have an choice in the matter, contrary to deciding to give an organ to another person she's not directly responsible for, she can't decide to NOT give her own blood supply. Remember what I said about pregnancy being a very special scenario, that it's not like any other? So the comparison is not deciding giving an organ(or blood) to another human being-although I would argue against the morality of disconnecting your supply if for some magic reason you were responsible for another human being's critical condition from which they will recover and which you know if you disconnect they will surely die- but rather about forcibly killing that human being, do you understand the difference? Sure it's possible, you don't take an active part in several of your bodily processes. If someone pushes you it's an active part on their side, while your falling is passive, if you're jumping for example it's active, although I still don't understand what your point is as there's obviously an active/passive component in these scenarios. Falling because of inertia and jumping have different modes(active/passive) depending on the context. I don't disagree with you, I completely agree that bodily autonomy/integrity are important issues and we have a right. What I'm arguing is that those rights aren't absolute, like all other rights. The context matters and there are and should be restrictions on bodily autonomy/integrity, and the killing of another human being should be one of those restrictions. You haven't addressed the issue of peeing into another person. Can you address it explicitly?

Your response was a big appeal to emotion. I don't mean that in a bad way at all, in fact I agree that there should be an empathic/understanding emotional component in decision making. I actually in many instances value more the emotional argument other than the philosophical ones because philosophical ones that have appeared to be true in many cases have been the reason for many great tragedies, that could have been avoided if we were more empathic. Nevertheless, you would also have to consider, what requires more 'humanity', whether conceding points you don't believe in to make someone feel better OR refusing to take another human life? If we're making the humanity argument I think most people - certainly most I know - see the act of taking a human life as more inhumane, and even those who don't still have that empathic connection(even though diminished) but it's overridden by their ideology. Most women with 'big hearts' that I know would give their own lives for their children. Not saying that all people who commit abortion are selfish, because many may be good persons and have good intentions, but ultimately they are choosing to kill another human being out of their own convenience and that's a selfish act. Does 'giving up her dreams'-you could argue that it's more of a postponing than an actual giving up- justify murder? Believe me I do have sympathy for people in bad scenarios, which as far as I know usually aren't because of that scenario but rather because relationship problems. If they have a strong relationship with their partner they can overcome those problems, but many don't. I understand that position not just from the mother's perspective as many friends have been in that scenario, but also from the father's perspective(something not previously talked in this discussion). What most do, what's natural/humane/empathic to do is not to say 'well, this puts me in a bad position, let's kill it', but rather 'well this sucks' and make the best out of it. Not only do I have sympathy for the mother, I also have sympathy for the human being killed by those who should protect them. I try as hard as I can to not be judgemental against people, and for the large part I succeed, I don't judge murderers, rapists, etc.. in the sense of condemning them, but I do say that what they're doing is wrong and should be stopped. Even if someone murdered because he needed the money, or because the person they murdered is going to rat them to the police of a serious crime, or because they are a conflicted person. I have empathy for them to an above average level if I may say so... but that still doesn't justify it and doesn't mean they are correct or that they should be allowed to commit those things. Abortion is not any different. I can understand for example, a mother having birthed a baby who reminds her of her rapist. Thinking she would be strong enough to raise her baby, but upon seeing her baby for the first time, looking into his eyes seeing her rapist. I understand that, and can feel for her, but in no way does that justify leaving that baby to die, or actively killing the baby, no matter how bad she feels. Yes, birth control fails, although I've done the formula and with proper birth control 3 out of 10,000 women will get pregnant over a whole decade even if they have the normal numbers of sexual partners. Birth control fails for example, when you use a condom irresponsibly. Vasectomy can fail, although very rarely, and I do understand those positions, where it might be tragic, but it still doesn't justify the killing of another human being. The majority of abortion cases aren't because of those statistical outliers in birth control but out of improper use/responsibility of birth control. Suffering is not the only element of morality. Is an important one of course, a major one, but not the only one. If I were to see a homeless woman that was drunk wasted unconscious, can I rape her and kill her? She after all would not suffer- she's unconscious-, nobody else would suffer-nobody would miss her-. Does that mean that I am not commiting a serious immoral act? To be honest, I doubt most of the times in abortion cases the mother is thinking about the baby, what's best for the baby, but rather she's thinking about the seriousness of her own situation, what's more convenient for her, what's the easiest way out of her situation. Those are all good things when they don't involve other people, less of all killing another human being

I think I have the math in one of these comments, I can look it up for you if you want. The facts around the birth control success rate are from a pro-choice side so they're not biased in favour of my point, and possibly biased against my point, but I accepted them because I believed them to be the standard neutral rate. The math I did is also logically valid, so if the method is valid and the facts are true then the conclusion should be equally true. I can deepen on this if you want. I understand this point and it's one of the arguments that have kind of swayed me over to legalizing abortion because of certain statistics showing that the number of abortions are the same regardless of the legality of abortion. That didn't strike me as consistent with all other crimes(where penalizing them reduces to a certain extent the number of crimes commited) or even being common sense. But I still need to research the data properly, as abortion statistics are unreliable, specially where it's illegal, so I think those statistics are just approximations without way of verifying them. If abortion is equal to murder, should a a crime(for whatever reasons, understandable or not) be protected in that act by the law? I think not in those cases were the crime hurts other people, specially in the case of murder. Let's say bank robbers for example. Should we make bank robbery legal because doing it illegally carries certain risks(you can be shot) for the perpetrator? And that's a minor case because you could argue that 'safe' bank robbery does not hurt anyone except the bank(not a real person) in a very minor way, while abortion is more hurtful towards another human being. Does this mean that I want women to die or even punish them because of having abortions? Not at all, I just want them NOT to kill babies. If all things were equal and no abortion would be stopped by having it being illegal but women died in failed abortions, I would agree that yes, even though it's immoral, we should reduce the damage as much as possible. But as it stands I don't believe it is, and I do believe that making it illegal is consistent with what the Law intends to be and that it does serve as a deterrent to a certain extent.

If it serves as deterrent for at least two abortions it's saving lives. How much of a deterrent does it have to be for it to be enforced by law? The secrecy of a crime makes a crime harder to persecute, such is the issue for example with rape. Rape is a crime extremely hard to persecute because if the identity of the rapist is not known then you can't prosecute anybody, most victims don't come forward, and when they do it's near impossible to prove rape vs consensual sex. Does that mean that we should legalize rape? Those are two different things: the difficulties of prosecuting a crime vs the morality/legality of it. You have precedents though, you have to look at countries that don't legalize abortion and see what's happening there. For example, my country's status on abortion is legal only in certain cases(or at least it was last time I checked), which means it's illegal in most cases(as the cases where it's legal are the extreme rarity). Yet, women don't get investigated when they miscarried, and as far as I know almost no one is charged with it other than doctors. Which is what I think would be the best route, as in most cases women won't go to such extreme lengths like hurting themselves for abortion, but rather will go to a clandestine doctor. If there's no clandestine doctor, her options are limited. Even without the precedent is easy to see that crimes aren't usually prosecuted because the police body is not that big. You can see that with regular murder, the murders that are actually investigated properly aren't that much, most are just datafied into statistics and not investigated, and not all deaths are thought of as murders. Suicides/accidental deaths, etc... are recognized and usually not investigated as murders, same thing with natural miscarriages. Police may investigate doctors suspected of performing abortions and investigate them, which is far easier than investigating all possible pregnant women or women who have miscarried. If a scared, young woman can find a clandestine abortion doctor, surely professional undercover policewomen could too. But again that's besides the morality of it, and whether should the Law enforce itself on immoral acts against other people. Most of us would argue that is the essence itself of the Law. Just as you see it in other crimes. There's a parallelism between your reasons for difficulties in the prosecution of abortion and the difficulties in the prosecution of rape, alongside the risk of the act itself, and yet, nobody argues(rightly) for the legality of rape.

We agree though, that regardless of the legality issue, it's an immoral thing to do. Does making rape illegal stop rapes? Does making kidnapping illegal stop kidnappings? If not, should we make rape or kidnapping legal so the rapists or kidnappers don't suffer the unsafe consequences inherent to that act? If not, then why not? What makes abortion a special case of immoral/illegal act compared to the rest of them? If you explicitly say that yes, then we can talk about the legality of abortion, otherwise it's not the main point. In case you explicitly say that yes, all other unsafe crimes should be made legal if they didn't reduce the number of crimes committed and that abortion is unethical, I will address the legality underneath. It doesn't make any sense at all that making something illegal would not stop at least certain number of women.  The issue is what's the rate? I don't think nobody can venture anything other than a conjecture. I believe we just don't have reliable data, so you can't really say it doesn't serve as a deterrent. The only thing that comes to mind is the controversial 'War on Drugs'. Does legalizing drugs make society safer overall? There's the precedent for example during the Prohibition. But I believe there's a big difference between drugs and abortion. Many drugs aren't a morality/criminal problem, they're a personal or healthcare issue. Abortionists don't go around killing other people than unborn humans, contrary to for example Al Capone. If I smoke a joint in my house or take some MDMA with my girlfriend, there's not any real societal harm. Meanwhile a society killing its own offspring, murdering other humans sets a bad precedent, it's bad for society AND those other humans. That's the only scenario where a similar case could be made, but even that case is not that strong. Then there's the weaker point of whether or not should we make it legal even if it can be proven that it doesn't serve as a deterrent. For this I bring that in legality issues a big element is precedent. Setting a precedent for the killing of human beings is not a good one. What is also the essence of the Law? What is it's reason of being? We can all agree that Justice and Law are good by their very nature and a case could be made that some things are bad. Depending on your own philosophy, we should not commit certain things to be done out of the inherent morality of those actions. It's a weaker and not as thought of argument, but for example, should we allow necrophilia? By most moral standards there's no victim, there's no big damage unto society, it's that person's right how to exercise his own sexuality, so if he decides to have sex let's say with the corpse of a dead girl without a family, what real argument can be given for its immorality? Yet I believe that there are certain acts that are immoral in of themselves. If I cheat on my girlfriend and she never finds out, I think that I still did wrong. It's just plain better to just say don't do it even if you can't grasp what's really immoral about it.

I think the point I made is clear, it's in plain English. It's not a rant, it's coherent and relevant to your previous response, so I'm not sure how to answer to this. It's not as if I said 'hkdsfkdf lasdmdan?' or something like that. For example, that sentence is clear. Anybody can understand it. Maybe the comma between unethical and "I will address" is unnecessary but other than that I'm not sure why it's a 'random nonsensical rant' Do you not understand(hence why you think it's a random nonsensical rant) and wish me to make it clearer? I'm not sure what's unclear of what I said but I'll try it again summarized. We should agree that first of all abortion is immoral. It's legal status is secondary to this. If we can agree on this then we have to address the legality issue(of whether it should be legal or not) by comparing it with other crimes. You state that it should be legal because it doesn't prevent crime and it hurts the perpetrators. So I compare it with other crimes, and ask if you honestly think they should be legal if it didn't prevent crime or hurt the perpertrators and I compare it with kidnapping or rape. I then ask if it were to be proven that making those acts illegal didn't prevent crime and carry inherent risks, should we then make them legal? I then say that if your answer to the previous question was 'no', then what's the difference between abortion and these two other crimes in relation to your argument.

Here's one of my problems with your argument: who cares if it's immoral or not? Would you like to brand all recipients of abortions with an "I" on their foreheads? Are there morality points we are supposed to be accumulating? Whether or not any given woman has had an abortion is between that woman, her physician, and any higher power she may or may not believe in. Some people think sloth is immoral, but I think it's a pretty enjoyable way to spend a weekend. And someone else thinking it's immoral isn't going to change my mind or behavior.  Or make me feel shame.
So basically you don't care if something you do is wrong or harms other beings, you only care if you do it and if you feel shame or not? Is that your grand argument? I see it more as a declaration of a lack of ethics, reasoning, empathy and humanity overall. If you'd like raping and for some reason you felt no shame, would you do it? Based on your response, you would answer it the same way "who cares"
Firstly, I didn't claim to be making a grand argument. When I make a grand argument, you'll know it. Second, your response leads me to question (again) your motive for starting this debate in the first place: do you want us to agree that abortion is immoral and that we should all feel shame for supporting a woman's right to choose? Or that we should start shaming women who have abortions?  Are you here to shame people who have had abortions? Luckily, I've never had the urge to rape someone, and you going from my example of sloth to rape is...interesting? I can't even watch MMA because I find it too violent, in case you need an example of the level of violence at which I feel uneasy, which is irrelevant to this debate. (And I'm pretty sure it's not). Also, other barriers to me being a rapist are that it's illegal, and I'm too much of a diva to go to jail; and I would have safety and hygiene concerns. By looking at some of the comments,  it seems that you are male, so we can probably assume that you will never personally have to choose to terminate a pregnancy. So this debate serves no purpose to help you make that decision. So unless you are a physician, thinking about whether or not you will be offering this service to women, then it seems that the outcome you are looking for (determination of abortion as moral or immoral) has no purpose other than to place a value judgment on someone else's decision.
Shame is mostly a useless feeling. If 'shame' doesn't make someone stop doing something wrong, then why have it? It's only useful if you recognize that something you've done wrong is wrong and stop doing it. I'm here to debate the morality of abortion and see what kind of arguments there are because the arguments I've heard in real life and in YT videos are very weak. I stated so on the OP. Also, morality for me, again, is not about shame, it's about doing the right thing. For example in times of slavery, the debate wouldn't be to shame slavers, but in order to see the morality of actions and if there were a slaver, shaming him wouldn't be really useful unless it leads to him stop enslaving or trading with people. It's a logical step from what you stated and what you implied. You stated/implied that the morality of something is not important: And: Strongly implies that it's shame or pleasure that are your personal considerations on morality. The logical conclusion is that you don't care about morality only about whether it feels good or feels bad(shame). That is if you felt good doing something immoral without feeling shame then you wouldn't care if it's immoral or not, based on your words. I'm not here being mean just looking for excuses to yell and shame people. I'm here to have an interesting debate, see new opinions and ideas, to polish my arguing skills and to see if there's value in abortion that I hadn't considered before. If that leads me to conclude that abortion is heavily immoral, then of course there's a judgement on the action(although the person). I don't even judge murderers, rapists, thieves, etc.., although I do judge the actions as moral/immoral and act accordingly, which is actually what everyone else does. Not judging actions is impossible and if it were possible it would be idiotic not to. I don't value passing judgement in the other people, so it doesn't go around where you seem to think it's going or how my motivations are.
No.  Rape is never a logical extension of sloth. When I brought up the morality of sloth, this is what I meant: Some people find it immoral (it's one of the seven sins).  Some people do not find it immoral.  There are many actions (or inactions) where there isn't agreement as to whether or not it's moral or immoral.
That's what I meant. There's not an absolute agreement on what things are moral or not, but that doesn't mean there's not an objective standpoint for morality, just as every other piece of human knowledge. Rape is not a logical extension of sloth, and I don't think I said that. What's a logic extension for it's 'morality' is that the basis for your morality is doing what feels good and not doing what feels bad, not regarding really the morality of your actions only how you feel about them.
I know it's been a month since you posted, OP, but I think I have an angle not yet discussed. I read all the comments. Since I come across harsh sometimes because I speak directly, I want you to keep in mind I write all of the following fully intended with kindness and/or politeness. The fact is you and others do not or should not get to dictate what people do with their own body. This is just as true for a woman during a pregnancy. Whatever topic (personhood,viability,etc.) and chosen words (embryo vs fetus,atrocities,etc.) you debate about abortion, medically and biologically a developing embryo/fetus is not independent of the woman's body and her life inherently possesses the right to choose whatever she wants and needs for her own life. Abortion isn't a morality issue any more than other medical operations; it is neither moral nor immoral. This should be the end of the debate. That aside, here is my argument addressing your post more specifically. We both agree personhood is a gray area concept. The issue with philosophy is the continual argument over the gray areas. Currently, people still debate topics started ages ago. You will rarely get many people to agree on gray area concepts. A person with personhood should be autonomous and able, more or less, to live on their own and do person things. You pick personhood at conception. I could pick personhood at 4, 10, or 24 weeks. None are correct or incorrect because the start is arbitrary, and as of yet cannot be proven one way or the other. You probably pick the start because of morality, which is just as arbitrary. If I must choose, I believe personhood makes the most sense when the fetus is more separate from the mother and/or in the viable stages. In the earlier stages, the fetus is more part of the woman, than it is itself. Up until that point, abortion is not killing/murder, it is ending the development of a group of cells. After, it would only be used for appropriate medical issues. This is another reason personhood is not and cannot be a valuable metric or basis for legislation. Forcing the definition personhood onto an embryo/fetus for the sake of banning abortion, essentially, mother's personhood now is second rate to the fetus'. In a way, the ban diminishes the mother to a baby-machine with no other choice but carrying to term regardless of everything else going on in her world. Another reason to not legislate banning abortions and treat it as a medical issue/decision. Lastly, Personhood and morality don't currently prevent someone from making a decision to "kill" someone else. Abortion is similar to ending life support and choosing assisted suicide. We have plenty of situations where one must decide to end life support on other people who are/have: in a coma, severe medical conditions, grievously injured, not responding to medical treatment, elderly, chronic and/or fatal diseases, etc. Therefore, personhood is irrelevant concerning some situations, including abortions. Based upon a non-exisitng consensus on a gray area concept, you wish to have concrete legislation which takes away choices from people (primarily female people). Until we know more scientifically, abortion should remain a personal medical decision. Since personhood is a non-issue concerning abortion, I thought I would address a bigger picture starting with one of your comments. It's actually quite easy. Liberty/choices, a more educated populace, tolerance, having safe medical treatments, minimizing criminal & anti-social behavior, and minimizing welfare dependence all benefit society. Legislation based on arbitrary and/or religious morality does not benefit society because it creates biased justice. Murder is illegal because of a Constitution related issues - not morality reasons. If it was a morality issue, lethal force self-defense would be illegal too (because "Thou shalt not kill." - assuming you are Christian based on your comments); yet it is very legal. We should have a system allowing people to choose abortion among herself, her partner(s), her family, her doctors, and any other person she deems applicable. Everyone else should stay the fuck out of it. It's none of my damn business or yours. Legally, I think, as the pregnancy proceeds, initially conditions on abortion should be most flexible and progressively be more restricted up to certain medical conditions. We should have comprehensive sex education to minimize people getting into a situation where abortion is the best option for the girl/woman. We should have a welfare program to subsidize opt-in hysterectomy/vasectomy surgeries for birth control. Religious people should stop demonizing sex so young people don't feel shame and avoid obtaining birth control. They could still call it a sin, but since everyone sins at least be responsible about it instead of causing bigger problems. It is unrealistic to oversimplify life's aspects to fit into a neat little box of specific moralities and beliefs. Additionally, your morality and ethics are not necessarily those of others. A major problem with the US is more and more laws forcing people to live a particular lifestyle; usually justified with bullshit phrases such as "think of the children", "it's the moral thing to do", and "it's for your own good" If you want to discuss morality... Which is more moral... To end a embryo in early stages OR to create a situation with 2 people experiencing overly-challenging overly-suffering lives? I think the former is more "moral." Examples of life situations which I think are immoral to force upon a mother and potential child: Child is likelier to grow up in a single parent family and in poverty. Potentially growing up as a child unwanted by the mother. An increased chance of being under-educated and low-income. 30% more likely to exhibit anti-social behavior. A higher chance to require welfare. "Statistically, a child in a single-parent household is far more likely to experience violence, commit suicide, continue a cycle of poverty, become drug dependent, commit a crime or perform below his peers in education." I think it is immoral to take away liberty/choice. Banning abortions causes an "atrocity" by taking away a medical choice from a woman in a potentially difficult position. In order to have a free country, tolerance must exist among people who choose to live different lifestyles. Many pro-lifers demonstrate to have little to no tolerance, awareness, acknowledgement, or compassion to what is going on in a pregnant woman's life - the only aspect that matters to them is a developing fetus. Believe what you want, but in the least, please have tolerance of other people's lives and responsible choices. Be pro-life for yourself if you want - it's your life. Please be pro-choice legislatively.
I appreciate your honesty and in fact don't find your response harsh or anything like that. But this is wrong. We DO dictate and we OUGHT to dictate what people do. You said you read all the comments so I'm surprised you said this phrase as I have rebutted it(in my opinion) in other comments. The liberty people have with their bodies is a subset of liberty of action in general, the medium of action changes to that of just the body but you're still using your liberty of action. But liberty of action is not absolute, it's mediated by the law. No man or woman can go to the movies and masturbate to his heart's delight, I can't punch people randomly, I can't even travel to the US without a visa. This and many other examples(with differences between them) illustrate that we in fact don't possess an absolute right to liberty even of our own bodies; our freedoms and rights stop when another's begins, that's the general maxim. So while people do have freedom of action of their own body it has also certain limits, and the determination of that is the effect it has on other people's lives, which is a consideration in abortion. Furthermore abortion on itself is not a decision on your own body, it's a decision on the body of another person. You can't decide for your body to NOT give nutrients to the baby, in fact, the general procedure for abortion is by vacuum, which isn't about your body but the body of the fetus, which isn't YOUR body even if it's in your body. It depends on your use of the word 'independent'. If you mean that the fetus needs the woman for its own life(viability) then yes, of course. If you mean that the fetus is a part of the woman's body, then biologically, no, you're wrong. Medical operations in general relate to morality(for example euthanasia), so even if it were true, it still doesn't negate the morality discussion, because all other medical operations involve moral discussions. That's a certain definition of personhood that is personal to you. It's not necessarily a shared view on personhood(it doesn't make it invalid, it just makes it limited). Why do you define it that way? Is it an arbitrary definition? Not really, I'm not picking personhood at all, I'm discarding the whole notion as valid in this debate. What I'm 'picking' at conception is not the notion of personhood but the biological fact of humanity. A fetus is a biological human being separate(biologically) from the mother. So this whole paragraph of your argument is moot. As I stated above I discard the whole notion of personhood and its validity in such discussion, so I'll ignore the part of personhood because it's not relevant I believe. You're not only ending the development of a group of cells, you're killing a being(which you and i are also a group of cells), that is human; you're killing a human being and in my book that's murder. That's why I refuse to have it as a metric for legislation or for anything really. I'm not saying we should respect a fetus because it has personhood(whatever that concept entails), I'm saying we should respect a fetus because it's a human being. It's pro-choice people who use an artificial concept(that of personhood)-which is incomplete and flawed- against a natural concept(biological being); which for me is absurd, so it's why for me personhood shouldn't even enter into the equation. Well, in a way that's how law works. If I crash your gate because I was drunk I'm going to be forced to pay for your gate even if it's not convenient for me or i have a hard time doing it. Does that turn me into a gate-paying machine with no other choice but to pay the reparation regardless of everything else going on in my world? I suppose, but nobody's going to take that seriously, because in neither case(abortion or gate-repairing) am I being actually diminished to that, i'm still human, I can still make decisions, I still have freedom, I still have a life, the ONLY thing that's different is that I am responsible for my actions and the effect it has on other people. If a person(human being) is being reduced is the fetus who has been stripped off its rights, even the most basic one(without which any other's are impossible) which is the right to life We are talking two things here: The legality of an action and the morality of that action. Law should reflect morality, but it doesn't always do, throughout time many laws have been immoral and many moral things have been unlawful and the nature of law is to reflect moral principles, so in a conflict of law and morality you should always go for morality. A main difference between abortion and assisted suicide is the matter of consent, which lawfully(and ethically) makes a big difference. Non-consensual assisted suicide is plain murder. So I would scratch that case as it actually works against you. Life support can be immoral and I would venture even unlawful. Some important variables into the equation would be (im)possibility of recovery, cost on the family, consideration of the individual and previous consent(or opinion) of the matter. I think most cases of life support being fine with the law involve those where it's highly unlikely or impossible for the person to recovery. A different thing would be when there's a certainty the person will recover in 90 days. Either way, I can't just go around with a knife stabbing people in life support, that's considered murder. You also put some scenarios under the life support umbrella, but actually most are incorrect. I can't kill someone because they are elderly, or because they have a fatal disease, etc.. So both cases are incorrect and work against you. Also what matters much is intent: if I pressure a mentally conflicted person to commit suicide because I want his money then it's murder, if I stab a person in life support because I need him gone in order for me to get the inheritance(when that person is expected to make a full recovery in a month) it's murder. CONTINUED BELOW
The default stance of both morality and legal is to preserve life. The default stance, taking personhood out of the equation, is not to permit the killing of other human beings, but rather to prevent it, so the default doesn't go towards abortion but rather from it. It's not on me to demonstrate why the life of a human being in a particular case should be protected, but rather the onus is on you to prove it shouldn't be just as if I kill someone I need to prove it was on self-defense(a STRONG case against the life of the other person) and can't say "prove to me why I shouldn't have killed that person", those people are considered murderers before the law because the protection of the law lies with the innocent. Also, it's not primarily female people, it's only female people as only female people can get pregnant :P Not sure if it's a matter of accusing me of sexism or something like that(which has been said in this debate) but I actually don't think the sex of the person matters(the direct reverse of sexism). If a man could get pregnant, then I would also object to them aborting. When talking about the killing of other human beings, the matter won't ever just be a medical decision but also a lawful and moral one, and the default stance as I said, of the law is to protect the innocent and defenseless. I'm not portraying legislation based on arbitrary or religious morality at all. You're I think ignoring the whole antecedents and history of Morality, Justice and the Law. In relation to this discussion the law tries to reflect morality and be just(a moral principle). There are in law also practical considerations but the base for it are ethical considerations, and what is known as Justice. You can't separate Law(in essence) with Justice and you can't separate Justice from what's Ethical, as Justice is a main Ethical principle and Law tries to mediate affairs by what's Just. The Constitution was drawn on moral rights and justice just as it's antecedents were(the Magna Carta and such documents and other philosophical treatises). The thing is in all of these cases self-defense is allowed as a moral right, so there's really no conflict about self-defense and murder, as the antecedents explain the difference and the Justice in defending yourself. I'm not Christian, or at least don't consider myself that way because I dislike religion, but I try to live by the superior(in my opinion) principles that are not only found in christianity's core beliefs but in many other religions and teachings. It's societies business. It's like saying that rape is none of anyone's damn business except the victim and the perpertrator.... erh, no. Even more so when the victim doesn't even have a voice. i agree. I agree, as I said I'm not in the same wagon as religious pro-lifers(mainly Catholics). In fact, I mostly have a gut instinct against Catholicism and their dogmas. All of life's aspects are ruled by beliefs, core, conscious or unconscious. If I were raped, my beliefs rule how I will react to it. If I'm cheated on, my beliefs will rule how I will react to it. My beliefs also rule whether I cheat on someone else or not, etc.. The two phrases you say aren't bullshit to me. I don't know the context, so maybe that matters, but consideration for the morality of my actions and the effect will have on them is not a bullshit consideration for me, it should be a main concern. Morality matters. The issue with that much 'freedom' that you I believe imply is that it's not realistic, it's immoral and it goes against law's essence. Law by its nature has the faculty of forcing. An unenforced law is no law at all. Yet, who has the right to decide the law for everybody? I'm reading Proudhon's book 'What is Property?' that touches on this subject beautifully: if you have a king giving orders then you're not really having a just law because your main concern is not justice it's the will of the King and the will of the King may be unjust. Then we have democracy, which is again the will of the King, but now the King is not just a person but a group of people; which has the same flaw as a single king in the sense that you're not basing law on Justice but on the whim of the King(nation). So you should base your law on Reason and Justice. Yes, everyone has different views on the world and it leads to differing behaviours and philosophies, but that doesn't justify me murdering my neighbor and stealing from him. If someone were to say who gives me the right to put my own morality upon him(not to murder), the answer is simply, it's not a matter of personal morality or not, it's a matter of what's Just and what's Reasonable, and those are objective things. You're saying death it's better than option B. In this case option B is growing up in a single parent family and in poverty. If you really believe that the killing of a human being is preferable, then why don't you murder children in single parent families and that are in poverty? If death is preferable, why don't you kill all these people in these scenarios? You would be justified by your own logical processes. We take away liberty and choice all the time, even more so, life takes away our liberty and choice. As I said, I can't go around jerking off in public even if I choose to, I can't go around killing people even if I choose to. The law here takes away this liberty and this choice from me, and that's MORAL not immoral. There are tolerable things and intolerable things. Should I tolerate a rapist's decision? A murderer's? A thief's? Slavery? Sure, I can tolerate my neighbor blasting Nickleback, but I can refuse to tolerate that at 12 AM when I have work tomorrow. Sometimes tolerance becomes a vice, namely when it affects other people. So while I sincerely thank your response and cordiality I don't see your arguments as that good and I hopefully have shown you why I am justified by reason in refusing those arguments. If you think there's a flaw with my arguments I'm open to further discussion, and have an awesome day ;)
Wow. Thank you for a thorough reply. Unfortunately, I got lost in what you were trying to communicate because there were so many details involving an undefined morality, being told I was wrong, and some of my points being misunderstood. Even though your post started about personhood, then threw it out somewhere to revert to "human being" as the key marker, I think I understand your stance on the issue as such: All of your arguments and counter points are based on the idea that an embryo/fetus is an individual human being starting at an initial stage (when exactly? fertilization or maybe implantation? I don't recall you declaring your belief.). You think a human being possesses inherent significant value merely for existing. Hence, abortion laws, or lack thereof, involve and affect two people. You think the laws should be as such to protect the fertilized egg, and completely dismiss the mother and her situation. You believe abortion negatively impacts society because ending a pregnancy is worse than a child existing in a shitty/unwanted situation for many years. You believe your moral system is "correct" - therefore you can and should dictate what women do with their own body. Personally: I support abortion because I believe all life is equal, life is not all that valuable, and consequences of unwanted births greatly negatively impact society more than legal early term abortions. I believe an embryo/fetus is the mother's body for at least the first half of gestation. I believe it has a right to life at the point of viability, medical issues aside. I believe a fetus is not an entire human being until it also has a conscious life energy (aka soul, spirit, whatever). I believe a baby obtains this energy either at viability or at birth - I don't know yet. I believe you shouldn't dictate what one person does with their body, especially when justified with subjective undefined morality. I believe I am ignorant because knowledge is endless so I still have more to learn and process. I believe morality systems are used more often as a tool of control than a tool of contributing to the world. I hope you understand many people do not agree with your version of morality; especially when you use it to take away other's choices concerning only themselves. Many people do not view a blastocyte/embryo/fetus as a human being in the earlier phases of development and/or with certain medical conditions (found through and supported by science). Many people believe the blastocyte/embryo/fetus is not separate from the woman's body in certain stages so abortion doesn't involve another individual, and thus isn't murder. Repeatedly saying abortion is murder doesn't make you right. Many believe abortion is more loving and/or the moral choice instead of raising a child in a situation they deem unhealthy/unrealistic/infeasible/etc. Many people believe pushing specific morality onto them is negative for their own well-being and/or society. They disagree with you for good, understandable, and various reasons. They disagree with you because they believe people should have more liberty to live their lives as they want. They disagree with you because they don't want to dictate or control how people live their lives. They disagree with you because they have different values, perspectives, knowledge, and experiences. They disagree with you because they think one option is better than another option. They disagree with you because the mother's life is more important than the developing stuff. They disagree with you because they believe the developing stages is not an individual separate from the mother. They disagree with you because their belief of when life begins is different. They disagree with you because their doctors are the most able discuss with them their situation, their body, and their pregnancy. They disagree with you because they must make a choice for themselves and their own families given their particular situation. They disagree with you because a legal medical procedure is regulated and safer. They disagree with you because they might believe life isn't as valuable as you think it is. They disagree with you because they think your desired approach is generally not compassionate and quite authoritarian. They disagree with you because you want to take an acceptable choice from them simply because you deem it unacceptable because you know better in some way. Most significantly, you don't have any solid or better explanation arguing your perspective. You rely on a complete and unconditional idea that "a fetus is a human being, abortion is murder, and the mother doesn't matter" with little supporting info as to your angle of considering what is valuable and/or human being. I believe a relevant topic you did not address is "when life begins". Your approach simplifies broad, diverse, and complicated situations down to the only aspect you deem significant: the complete development of a baby just because an egg fertilized and implanted. The biggest idea I hope you understand is... You have no credibility to dictate what a person can or cannot do with his/her own body simply because you believe it's "immoral". Until we have actual scientific proof supporting the idea abortion is technically murder, we have across the board sex education and accessible birth control, we have systems & programs that actually help single mothers, and we have better adoption system with unwanted children, the laws should allow for the most freedom possible. Since you are trying to hone your debate skills, unsolicited feedback: I think you don't actually want to resolve anything or form a consensus for this topic. I think your posts and comments demonstrate you don't care about anything but the embryo/fetus, you are not to be dissuaded, you are unwilling to consider different ideas and beliefs, you believe your knowledge of the world and your version of morality is superior. I think you could benefit from learning about the natural world and seeing that people are not exempt from being animals despite our gift/curse to think. You used analogies (strangely focused on raping and pissing on people) to convey a fetus is a human being, used extraneous detail to obscure concepts, avoided actually considering different beliefs or ideas. Many of your comments simply state a subjective idea as fact and lack a solid supporting explanation; or you dismissed by saying the person was wrong, including me.
Not sure if it was a sarcastic response, it was my first thought, but I'll assume this conversation is civil and in good will, so I'll answer is if it wasn't sarcastic or anything like that. I believe thorough comments require thorough answers, and as you gave a thorough comment I rather thank you for it, and wanted to respond in kind to an also thoughtful comment. Undefined morality? I believe most moral codes in history and throughout culture define the killing of another human being as wrong and only permissible in certain contexts(self defense, war). Not sure then, what you mean by undefined morality as I'm defining it as most people define it: killing other human beings is morally wrong without any serious context allowing it(self-defense). "Being told I was wrong" Well, of course, if we're arguing opposite points I'll say that you are wrong, but I also put forward the reasons for why I believe you were wrong. It wasn't just an empty statement of your being wrong, but an argument against your point, with me providing justification for that statement; that makes a huge difference. You'd then have to argue those counter arguments, which is a normal part of a debate. I mentioned it as the central issue on this debate, but I never validated it. My original argument goes "..But personhood is a philosophical concept, not a scientific one...". It's evident that I never reverted to human being but rather have always attacked the artificial concept of personhood against the biological one of human being. As I stated, i'm not really a biologist but I think the scientific consensus is that it starts from fertilization. For more references: https://www.princeton.edu/~prolife/articles/embryoquotes2.html That's the basis for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. That we as humans have inherent value. I never said to completely dismiss the mother. It's a consideration, for example in self-defense. But murder and morality aren't a matter of convenience and the situation rarely matters. Mugging a person is wrong, even if you really need the money. Rape is wrong even if you're really horny. Murder is wrong even if you really need it or not doing it will affect negatively your life. Well, this is an idea that impacts heavily into this debate. Most people agree that life IS valuable. Why is that so is another matter, but we instinctively assign value to life and treat people who don't do so, which treat life lightly as dangerous, and rightly so. It's not just a matter of the impact it has on society. Jews were deemed to impact negatively the german society, but it still doesn't justify their genocide. I also believe genocide impacts more negatively a society than people being born on not-ideal scenarios. It also impacts those members of society(the unborn) negatively. In my research I found it also a scientific consensus without discussion that the fetus is not a part of the mother's body; it's an independent human being with their own DNA(not the same as the mother's). So you're factually wrong. A fetus is a full human being since the beginning. Biologically it's a being, which is human and is independent(genetically) from their parents even though it shares a part of their DNA. It's of course not a fully developed human being, as an infant isn't a fully developed human being, as a teenager isn't a fully developed human being, but in all cases the same human being is indeed, a human being as evidenced by science, regardless of your personal belief.
I'm not sure what you mean by subjective undefined morality? I've defined it many times: killing human beings is wrong without a heavy justification such as self-defense(I think no one reasonable disputes this, at least not anyone worth talking to). Unborn humans are still scientifically human(this is debated by most pro-choicers, but it's not a scientific debate as the science shows it to be so). What's undefined about this? You can say whatever you wish about subjective morality, but there indeed is a basis for morality outside of the preference of the individual, if you don't believe this to be true, then why are you even debating this? You would have no basis for declaring abortion moral or immoral, or my own stance against abortion as moral or immoral other than it being your preference and the discussion would hold no more meaning than a discussion of whether the best color is red or yellow. As it stands, any reasonable person treats moral issues with the dignity they entail. Well they're not mutually exclusive. I believe I understand where you're coming from. I'm not here, sitting on my moral high ground condemning people who have abortions without any consideration towards them, using morality not as a shield against the defenseless but as an hypocritical way to attack people. I'm not using morality as a sword, but I pretend to use it as a shield against those in society that are the most defenseless, in this case, the unborn. I'm not trying to control woman's sexuality(at least in the way you would use the word control). A person wants to kill another because that person looked the other one wrong. This is immoral, and I will say so, not to attack the to-be killer but to defend the other person. Does this controls the other person? Of course, you're controlling their behaviour in a good way; they are not allowed to kill people. Is this control, unjustified? Of course not, it would be immoral not to use your faculties in order to defend that person. Do you believe it reasonable to allow the murderer to kill that person because you don't want to "control" their behaviour? Would you have let slavery to continue because you would be controlling people's behaviour by condemning it? Moral systems are innate to humans, formal or not. They're even innate to other animals. What we ought to do then is to follow the best moral system we can, not based on our own preferences, or whims, but rather based on reason and truth. I know there are many people who do not agree with it; also many people didn't agree with the abolition of slavery, specially when they took away their lifestyle's and their way of earning money. Does that mean that slavery and it's abolition are a subjective matter of preference? No. As I stated above, we should base our morality not even on ourselves, but rather on reason and sensibility towards one another. Those people I would pressume aren't biologists. Even pro-choice biologists accept the scientific fact that it's another human being, with a different DNA than the mother's. Whether or not they still think it's not murder(or that it's a justified murder), the fact is that a fetus is an individual being that is human. Well, murder is more of a legal term, but the concept remains. Killing a jew was at one time not murder, but for all intents and purposes it was. What's murder? The unjustified killing of another human being. No one considered self-defense as murder but that's because it's justified. While they do consider all other kinds of killings as murders in general. So it's up for your side to justify the killing of other human beings(and as justifiable as self-defense) and until they do, then murder is an appropriate word. I highly doubt this. I doubt anyone honestly aborts their child thinking about their child and what's best for them. Maybe, maybe it's less than 1%. The rest are about the mother thinking about herself, not the baby. Thinking that killing someone is what's best for that baby, and killing it altruistically is absurd in all but a few cases. Many people contradict themselves as most people accept the law. The law pushes its own brand of morality unto society and we all see it as acceptable and good. I bet serial killers and rapists reject the law or society's morality being pushed upon them, but as I said, it shouldn't be a matter of people pushing their own whimsical morality on other people, but on all of us doing what's best based on reason and truth. Stopping a killer isn't right because I whimsically say so, but because it really is so, based on reason. This is not a good reason for the following: People accept restrictions on their liberty, and the basis for those restrictions is when they encroach into another's lives, which is the definition of abortion. NOT a good reason. It's almost the same as above, and the counter argument is the same. People do and uphold all the time laws and systems that dictate and control all of our lives as society. They will tell me that drunk driving is wrong and I shouldn't do it, and you know what? They would be RIGHT, even if they are indeed dictating what I should or shouldn't do with my own life.

Thank you for sharing.

At least one person reported this, writing "Get this off of here mods, you got a job to do." I like this article and think it demonstrates excellent pro-choice values.
Thanks. I thought it was an interesting article, that's my only reason for posting it . And we are prochoice ,the author wanted to continue her pregnancy , that's her choice .
It is true that as a Catholic you did not have an obligation to vote for Trump. And many Catholics and prolifers did not vote for Trump. However, the following excerpt demonstrates that the author is not a practing Catholic or prolife. She says, Well sorry but prolife is the opposite of prochoice. The former is against legal abortion rights and the latter is for legal abortion rights. Unless she is taking about the exception of the life of the mother I call this author as bsing.
Or maybe she realizes that making abortion illegal does nothing to stop it (especially without an increased accessibility to contraception, informative sex ed, and a more generous social safety net that would decrease the financial burden of  being pregnant/having a child), makes women suffer much more than it protects children, and in practice unfairly targets the poor (many women before Roe v Wade would travel to another country or pay their doctor to have an abortion)
Exactly , the author advocates a more holistic approach.
This is not a realistic outlook of today. The truth is that abortion restrictions do decrease abortions and prolife countries benefit from higher maternal health rates.
The first article you linked me, besides the fact that it's source was obviously created to advance an agenda and a quick google search exposes some intellectually and ethically dishonest practices,isn't very convincing because it admits itself that there is more nuance to the conclusion than you are letting on. They use Poland as an example, but somewhat dismissively state that they do not have the data on abortions that occur illegally, so they are missing some key information there and clearly don't know the rate at which abortions are actually occurring. They also use Ireland as an example of low MMR, but even admit themselves that it is very easy and commonplace for Irish women to go to neighboring countries like England to have abortions, so that claim is definitely questionable. The article seems to gloss over some very important facts that don't necessarily confirm it's general viewpoint. Meanwhile, this study from the World Health Organization reports that abortion rates have recently declined in developed nations but stayed the same in developing ones. 88% of abortions performed were also done in developing nations. If you look at the abortion laws in the developing countries, the general trend, with some notable exceptions, is for their laws to be much for restrictive than those in further developed countries. This also strengthens a point that I made in my previous reply to you, that abortion rates are much more fundamentally tied to economic welfare and social safety nets than they are to legislation. It makes sense that people living in countries where poverty is most common are more likely to not want to have children. People who are unable to support themselves aren't going to feel like they can raise a child, or even go through the process of pregnancy and delivery. I actually looked up the original study referenced in the second article you linked, and the reported results simply don't support what you are implying. It links the low MMR rate with women's educational opportunities, delivery by skilled attendants, clean water, and sanitary sewer access. It even states that "The slope of the MMR did not appear to be altered by the change in abortion law." Correlation =/= causation. Also, as a counterexample, when Ceausescu banned abortion and family planning in Romania, it actually had very serious consequences to put it mildly, for mothers and children alike. Here's an interesting account from a Romanian Redditor who lived through this time that confirms this. There's even a harrowing but well-done documentary about the inhumane conditions that the unwanted children of this regime faced. So you're implication that restrictive anti-abortion laws are better for mothers is pretty misguided.
Sounds like the only thing we will probably ever agree on about this issue is that we should create some alternative programs and social services to help those less fortunate and living in poverty.
You can be anti abortion without wanting abortion criminalized.
I don't think so. That would make you prochoice. Because it means you believe that a mother has the right to legally choose to have the procedure done. Whereas, prolife means you do not believe that a mother has this right (with the general exception for saving her life).
I just meant that you can think abortion is wrong and shouldn't happen, but also think that women who go through with it shouldn't be treated as criminals. It would be an extension of the "hate the sin, not the sinner" mentality.
Yes, you can. I agree. You can also be prolife and believe that the legal repercussions should rest on the abortionist or abortion doctor rather than the mother. Most prolifers believe this. But you can't believe in abortion remaining legal and still be prolife because prolife is the opposite of prochoice and really means that you want abortion criminalized and illegal.
Something I've been rolling around in my head for a little bit, when talking to folks about things like child support or whatever, is that women, just because biology works like that, suffer things that men do not despite any financial willingness, because they have uteruses and we men are not seahorses. Just doesn't work. I've seen people have a hard time understanding this because they think it's always equal, financially, and that's the only equal that matters. So I was thinking about quantifying the non-financial parts, and came up with this hypothetical.Let's pretend that there was no abortion in the world. You were pregnant, you didn't want to be, you have to go through it all. BUT! You were allowed to sue the fella that put you there.How much would you ask for?
I think it depends.  Is it a regular pregnancy with minimal complications or is it high risk with a lot of doctors visits and maybe bed rest? How much time will the woman have to take off during the pregnancy and because of the birth?  Does the woman do an office job or manual labor where the employer will have to either modify the work or move her to another position with potentially less pay.  And is it a simple natural birth or a c-section which is more expensive and causes the woman to have to recover for a longer period of time before going back to work? Also if the woman did work in a manual labor job, how long until she would be fully recovered from a c-section and be able to once again fulfill all of her duties.  Also what about the cost of possible stress and trauma from being forced carry a pregnancy for nine months and then give birth against her will?  There are way too many variables to give a set number, it would depend on the individual woman, pregnancy, and the woman's salary.
In your case, if it occurred right now. With your current work situation. Can you ballpark it?
I am a 20 year old college student so I wouldn't need to take time off work.  Though I would have to take time off school.  Also my mother had two high risk pregnancies and required a c-section and bed rest both times. I cost $250,000 dollars because I was premature and stayed in the best hospital in my state for 7 weeks.  I don't know if I would have similar problems or not because I have never been pregnant. I do know that I would have emotional harm and trauma from being forced to go through nine months of pregnancy and then labor.  I never want children and it would be a horrible experience for me to have to go through that.  So I would need therapy and money for emotional suffering during and after the fact. I don't think I can give a ballpark figure but for me it would include typical medical expenses for pregnancy, possibly a c-section, therapy, and whatever someone is usually awarded for mental harm.
Alright, so, 250K plus let's say a semester of school, plus let's say a year of therapy of one session a week at 240 an hour, plus any other health thing that might come up. I'm trying to find out regular figures for what would constitute mental harm strong enough to be actionable, and the standard is pretty high, and I can't find anything for this specific situation (or similar situations really) but I'm still looking.
I don't know enough about what is considered psychological harm in lawsuits, though I would think surely if women were suddenly forced to become basically hosts for men, psychological harm during pregnancy would be considered grounds for some money. Though I think I would be on the lower end of the spectrum because I am not currently working in a career.  If I was it would have been higher, even more so if I worked doing manual labor.
It absolutely would. I just have a hard time finding figures for it.
$75-300 per 1 hour therapy visit.
The cost to raise a child is $234,000. A c-section can cost up to $71,000 depending on where you are geographically (before insurance adjustments). So something like two or three times that amount.
I'm thinking just the pregnancy aspect. Take out everything after that, the raising of it. Just the pregnancy and birth part and the recovery from both those things.
So then three times $71,000.
Alright, fair enough.
I decided three times because I'd have to go off all my medications to have a child safely (for it and me) and I'd necessarily have a c-section. And childbirth may actually kill me. So yeah haha. Reasons I got my tubes tied...
Oh, I have no doubt that it'd be awful. I was actually figuring something higher than that. I'm just trying to figure out what it'd be fair to pay someone to do something like this if they don't really want to.
You can't just put a price on it. You might as well ask how much one should pay a person after stealing their kidneys, or raping them. A kidney thief doesn't just pay, they go to jail, rapists don't always go to jail, but they really should. Payment is a component, but there is no amount of money that makes a violation of a person's body okay.
This is America, we put a price on anything! No, I see where you're coming from, absolutely. But we do have things like damages for pain and suffering, mental anguish, etc. I can find amounts for things like being paralyzed. I'm incapable of being pregnant and have never been raped, so I can't comment subjectively on the severity of it, but I'm guessing it would be around that level in terms of mental anguish. So I'm trying to see if I'm off in either direction.
I was having difficulty figuring out how to put the wear and tear on the body into the math equation in terms of compensation. Plus the shear pain of childbirth... I'd make them do a c-section with me entiiirely knocked out (if possible.)
I actually figured it'd be higher.
I had a vaginal delivery with an epidural, some complications because baby got stuck.  Insurance covered the whole bill, but I think it was around $15k.  I had to pay for prenatal vitamins, about $200, over the course of 9 months and then I had to stay on them for another year because I was breast feeding.  Insurance sent me a pump, but if they hadn't, it would have cost about $300.  My vision changed and I had to get new contacts, another $200.  I needed a new wardrobe, all the way down to new bras, which cost a few hundred dollars.  We had lab work and imaging done along the way that was probably, in total, about $500.  I had to get vagina physical therapy after the baby was born, that was at least $400 in copays.  I'll update if I think of more.
Thanks!
I would rather be dead than be pregnant with all of the money in the world.


No they should not be doing that . I don't condone it ,
EVERYONE has the right to protest, just like EVERYONE has the right to free speech. Destroying their signs is basically saying "ONLY MY VIEWS are allowed here", which is very juvenile.
I want to start off by saying that I am pro-choice.I was having a discussion around the possibility of abortions in the third trimester, specifically before the "due date."Pro-choice defines the woman as able to abort the child at any period during the pregnancy.However, is the woman able to abort the child at this stage, where it is projected there will be no complications, and the baby will be fine? If so, why?If we say the woman isn't allowed to abort such a late pregnancy, then where is the line drawn?
The idea of third trimester abortions of a healthy pregnancy is nonsensical because in the third trimester, the fetus is viable. The pregnancy can be ended (supporting the bodily autonomy of the woman) through induction or C-section (supporting the right of the fetus to attempt to live independently of the woman). There are no providers of abortions in the US that will provide an elective abortion in the third trimester.  It simply isn't a situation that presents. In real life, when women no longer want to be pregnant in the third trimester, medical professionals encourage them to wait as long as they can tolerate, and then induce. Women with adverse medical issues (e.g., preeclampsia) are induced/sectioned early with no controversy whatsoever.  Women sometimes have elective early inductions/sections even without medical rationale, although these are typically very late (36 weeks or later). The only reason to have an abortion in the third trimester is if the woman's health/life is SO threatened by the pregnancy, that it couldn't sustain an induction or C-section OR if this fetus remains non-viable at this late date. In other words - a fetus with little chance of surviving anyway. These are already medical tragedies and do not benefit from further regulation. Viability is where the line is drawn.
Thank you for your response. I very much agree with your sentiment that viability is where we should see a line, but it's difficult to know where exactly the line falls since every pregnancy is different. Also, we can't easily determine the time when most fetuses are in fact viable.
It's hardly news that pregnancy is a medical process with outcomes that vary wildly from situation to situation.  Determining viability is something that doctors do regularly and fairly well.  It is, after all, a medical judgment, so only doctors are equipped to make that judgment (and emphatically not courts).  The fact that every pregnancy is different is a reason for allowing medical discretion, not a reason to avoid it. That said, with current medical technologies the consensus is that healthy fetuses born earlier than 22 weeks are highly unlikely to be viable, whereas ones after 24 weeks have a decent chance.  The third trimester doesn't begin until week 27 when survival rates are greater than 90%.  If there is a "line" worth exploring, it isn't in the third trimester.
Sweet - I just learned a little bit more! Thank you the knowledge! Medical discretion over court's makes a lot of sense. I'm not arguing against it, and I don't have anything to add, so I'm going to keep this long winded explanation that says my comment should've finished earlier because I've already typed it out. ¯_(ツ)_/¯ Point is, what you said makes sense.
¯\_(ツ)_/¯
One correction, which is that most OBs I know would not provide elective inductions prior to 39 weeks.  We know that there is some fetal benefit up to that point.  If I provided an elective induction at 36 weeks and the infant suffered a complication of prematurity, it would be unnecessary suffering.  Plus, I'd be on the hook for it. While I support bodily autonomy, once we're past viability and aiming for a live birth, I also have an obligation to ensure that the live birth results in as healthy a baby as possible.
Thanks for the correction - question: What would you do if a woman who was 37 weeks came to your office distressed to distraction about remaining pregnant for the additional 2 weeks?  I wonder about women who are truly distraught late in the third trimester.  It seems to me likely that depending on her fervor, there would likely be OBs who would be willing to induce early and chalk it up to one of the less hard and fast medical rationales. My "on the line" thought experiment involves a woman beaten, raped, and left in a coma for 24-27 weeks (22-25 week coma duration, choose the line that feels more resonant to you), who awakens to find to her great dismay that she is carrying a perfectly healthy pregnancy that she never wanted and had no opportunity to terminate.  I wonder how long such a woman should be forced to continue to carry the pregnancy before she would be allowed to induce.  To 39 weeks seems like a disaster to me.  But I would hope she would be able to give it at least a few weeks seeing as every day counts for very early preemies.  Fortunately, I don't think that this example has ever happened in real life, but that would be the hardest for me to navigate morally.
Your coma example is slightly contrived -- a more realistic one is, say, an obese teenager with irregular menses and poor level of education who takes a while to realize she is pregnant, takes a while to approach care, and then misses her abortion appointment because her ride flakes on her, and now she's 24 weeks. I (and, I think, any other reasonable OB) would not induce until 39 weeks for an indication of maternal request. There is a very short list of indications for induction prior to 39 weeks.
So what would you do?  What sort of support would you offer?
This would depend a lot on the details of the case.  However, once the intent is to have a live birth, it takes a lot to say, "okay, we'll do the live birth... but in a way that increases the risk of lifelong problems."
To me that makes a lot of sense.  I know that my example is contrived (like many thought experiments), but it's the one that makes me feel really torn. Your example also strikes me as tragic, but I think it's easier for me to say that someone who had the opportunity to respond to their pregnancy through termination but chose not to (even through inattention/poor planning) carries more responsibility for seeing it through until the end than someone who never had that opportunity.  Also, knowing how much outcomes improve even by small amounts of time and having the sense that even second-trimester abortions are tragic, does not make me take this lightly. Ultimately, I would want to convince a woman to carry to term, and can understand why providers would refuse to induce early. (And why medical organizations and legal institutions would refuse to endorse it as a right).  I myself would want to do everything in my power to help her to feel comfortable with moving forward with the pregnancy.  HOWEVER, I can't avoid the reality that I still think that the woman's body is hers.  If a woman is so distraught by her pregnancy that she would be willing to cause harm to herself in an attempt to end it, would I think it was appropriate to section her, and put her in a mental institution until the conclusion of her pregnancy to prevent her self-harm?  Wow, that seems like a really basic violation. Fortunately, I think these cases are very few and far between.  I think that most women who have made it to 24-27 weeks are mentally capable of seeing it through, and can be convinced to maintain their pregnancies.  I wouldn't say that early induction would never make sense from a moral perspective though.
I agree.  I dislike an expectation that a pro-choice or pro-life position should include satisfactory resolutions to such terrible situations.


linkI have paraphrased most of his lecture, but I recommend downloading this lecture to iTunes university on your phone (its free) and listening to it while walking or driving so you don't get bored.Lecture by Professor Robert Wyman"So the abortion debate is 'when does life begin?'. Luckily that is a question that biology can say something about.What statement is the most common statement made on this? Usually that life begins with conception.Quote by George Will "It is a biological fact, not a theological postulate that such life is a continuum from life until death"[he goes on to quote some else(?) who stated that all basic biology text books say this:] "A fetus is a human being distinct from, while dependent on its mother. It deserves the full protection of its rights. "[Wyman] That isn't at all what a biology text book says. A biology text book shoes something quite different; it shows life as a cycle. There is no start point. Fertilization is just one of the events going around the cycle. This is the essence of sexual reproduction.The cycle is a switch between a haploid (one copy of each chromosome) and a diploid (two copies of each chromosome). In sexual reproduction there is always some version of this one copy, two copy reproduction.[he goes on to explain sexual and asexual reproduction: fun fact, strawberries reproduction asexually!]"the whole phrasing of this debate of when does life begin is a cultural hold over from the many centuries ago when there was no scientific understanding. So the question, 'when does life begin?', well, what is the alternative to it being a cycle of life, to something that is not alive? ...that would be called spontaneous generation."He says what made people think spontaneous generation was how life began was from observing a caterpillar that transforms into a moth. People believed caterpillars formed a cocoon and died inside of it (turning into a nutrition goo), and from that a butterfly would form....Human life, he says, was presume to be made from menstrual blood. From this he relates the current assumption that life has a beginning and an end; that life comes from "not-life", when in fact, life is a continual cycle. Because fertilization is the final constitution of the set up of a fetus, people assume that this is where "not-life" becomes uniquely "life".[he goes on to explain how a "the final genetic constitution is not set until some time after fertilization] He uses calico cats as an example, explaining how they have big black patches and big orange patches. "What you're seeing is, at a certain point in development there will be one cell with two sets of genes, one will have the melanin gene which will make the patch black, and the other will make it orange"  He says in one cell the gene for orange might turn off and you'll get a black patch, or vice versa. He says the number of patches can tell you at what cell stage this process happened, because each of those patches are the descendant of a single cell.[next he goes on to discuss development] He says development is a very "chancie" process. He says 78% percent of fertilized conceptions "die", and the mother will not even know she is pregnant because this usually happens in the first few weeks of  the pregnancy. He points out that religious folk who believe humans come back from death in the body in which they died, must also believe that a fetus enters heaven in a test tube. He says you it takes, on average, 5 months to get pregnant. He explains a scenario where a woman tries for 5 months to get pregnant and asks, well what is happening in the other 4 months? The sciences says the woman is getting pregnant each month, but the fetus doesn't make it past the first few weeks, so it is not noticeable. If pro-lifers believe that life begins at conception, then this is a tragedy! When a person dies there has to be a death certificate, an inquest; for example, did the mother drink alcohol, or smoke, or do something to cause her fetus to die? And if she did, should she be tried? He also says that even after birth, there is a possibility that the child will still die in the first few years (he says something like 1/3 of births)In sum, "it is a very chancie procedure, and elimination occurs along every step of the way"[next he talks about "when does life begin" according to various cultures]Some examples:• after infant mortality, that is, after a person has surpassed the point where it is most likely to die• From the Milani of West Africa, Nigeria: after 7 days, an infant is considered a life• the Navajo in America don't consider the child to be a "life" until the child laughs for the first tine• some believe life begins with movement "The point is that cultures have a different take on when life begins; since life is a cycle, they have this right, because where it begins is arbitrary"•"Even within culture, the take on where life begins is very different" for example, he says his friends (obstetricians and gynecologists) believe life begins at implantation, when the embryo attaches to the uterine wall.•He also says neonatologists often argue that the start of life is when the baby becomes viable• He says neurologists (he is a neurobiologist, and agrees with this point) believe that a life begins when it has some mental capacity. This might mean motor response, brain waves, the ability to sense something, or when it can feel pain. He says only by the 7th month are the neuro-pathways able to send this information to the cortex, but there is no evidence that the cortex even does anything with this information.He says all science can do explain the process of development; it cannot decide, nor does it care, when people believe "life" truly begins.[he goes on to talk about how the law has to define murder] "The law likes a bright-white line, so that it is clear to everybody when you have crossed this line." Since there is much debate from the point of fertilization to birth, the clearest line is at or near birth. No one will argue this point, and thus it is the most obvious answer in the eyes of the law.[next he chooses to talk about biblical definitions of life]The old testament: He says God created man in his image, and the first life he create was a full grown man, not a baby.The new testament: Says nothing about when life begins. The new testament and the roman empire coexisted, and at this time abortion was not uncommon.The sixth commandment: thou shall not kill. What does this mean? The testament explains how to handle various situations (can I kill my slave, a thief, etc) and describes a scenario where a man beats another mans pregnant wife resulting in here miscarriage. The suggested way of handling this situation is to decide, in front of a judge, an appropriate monetary amount for compensation; this is the same as how cases of stolen property where handled. However, if further injury to the mother occurs, they may "take life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth". He claims that this is very revealing that the miscarriage is not considered murder, and the inclusion of the word "tooth", automatically excluded a fetus or baby from person hood.He finishes off by explaining how the concept of "soul" formed from Aristotle's interpretation of how life began. Aristotle believed the mother provided the genetic material, but the father (with his sperm), provided the soul. Finally, at the discovery of fertilization (1840s) the concept of a "soul" was still imbedded in our society. Thus, when we discovered the point at which the human began to form, we naturally believed this fetus had a soul. The modern day belief that a fetus is "new life" worthy of rights and so on is either a certainty by religious pro-lifers (because it has a soul) or it is a lingering assumption by secular pro-lifers who have it ingrained in their minds (even subconsciously) that it is, in a sense, sacred, simply because it belongs to the human species.
Thanks for posting . It's a  really interesting lecture that's also accessible . I will be listening to the others on my commute .
You misunderstand the prolife standpoint though. It's not about when life begins. Even your skin cells are alive. It's about when a new, living and human organism begins to exist. And biologically speaking that is fertilization.
Either you didn't listen to the lecture or you missed the whole point. Professor Wyman brings up many great points on the inconsistencies of certain pro-life beliefs. His greatest point, however, is that what someone considers significant in regards to human life is different for everyone; that is to say, the value of a fetus is subjective. A human organism begins to exist at fertilization...well yes, but so what? Why should any fetus be entitled to life, simply because this specific fetus belongs to the homo sapiens species? As he noted in his lecture, your lifestyle, profession, religious beliefs, and so on can all play a role in what you believe makes someone a "person". For some its when they are viable, for others its once they mental capacity, and for some its like i said, simply belonging to the species, homo sapiens. Finally, and most importantly, he explained how concept of the "soul" has left lingering cultural assumptions that lead pro-lifers to believing it is inherently wrong to kill something with a soul. The point is to emphasize the fact that the morality of abortions should be determined by personal belief, not the law. A woman is an independent person who is deserves rights and protection under the law, no one would argue or deny this. When it comes to the human fetus, however, that clarity is gone. Many will argue or deny that a fetus should have rights, especially rights that supersede the mothers. Laws against abortion directly affect the mother, no doubt about it. She will be subject to pain and suffering. Laws allowing abortion may or may not affect the fetus depending on your beliefs, but no matter what you believe, the fetus will not care nor will it suffer. No doubt about it.
So, if for me, human life being subjective, I decide that human life only encompasses me, does that make it so? There's a difference between when does a human being begin to live and the personhood debate and the personhood part is controversial, undecided. I don't see how that's anti pro-life... Yes, for some people blacks weren't full persons, sub-human. Does that make it so? Even more so, I think the argument is anti pro-choice. Because throughout history women were considered less human than men, so women SHOULDN'T have the same right to choice as men do, following that logic. Yes, personhood is a concept that has no consensus, that's why it's not useful to the abortion debate. And the risk for "getting it wrong" is very high. All these points you've made(that are your interpretation of Wyman's) are also questionable in that they're not restricted to fetuses. If human value is subjective, if personhood is subjective, and therefore the morality of taking a human life is also subjective. But if I decide because of lifestyle or whatever personal belief that for example jews aren't people, then I'm not being immoral if I treat them sub-humanly. Do you see the flaw? PRECISELY because there's no clarity about the beginning or limits of personhood in human beings we shouldn't draw any lines. We shouldn't say blacks aren't persons, women aren't persons, children aren't persons, newlyborns aren't persons or fetuses aren't persons. Laws allowing abortion WILL affect the fetus. There's no "depending on your beliefs". The killing of a fetus... clearly affects it. What's subject to debate is whether or not abortion will affect the mother negatively, or more negatively than not. There are women who kill themselves after an abortion, so there's clearly also pain and suffering coming from abortions. That's relative. What's not relative is that it affects the fetuses. "No doubt about it" I doubt it. Depending on the stage of development of the fetus he/she will care and reject the abortion, try to survive. In fact, past a certain point an abortion will give more suffering to the killing of it than to a more mature human being. That is to say, they will suffer more from it that you if you were dismembered for example. Also, whether or not a fetus is conscious of the damage done to it, there is damage being done. If I kill you in your sleep you will not suffer from it most likely. Doesn't mean I haven't done damage to you.

"In western societies, there is no argument as to whether or not blacks or jews" But the point is that humanity is not subjective. Also personhood is not subjective. It's not false equivalence. You're saying it's subjective. I'm saying if it's subjective then why can't I subjectively decide that jews aren't persons based on my own personal criteria? You then say consensus, which implies group consensus. But that's also illogical because there have been societies and groups where that has been the consensus. Doesn't make it morally true, though. There are also currently societies and groups where certain persons are robbed either completely or partially of their personhood. Do you defend that? "Fetuses do not care if they are aborted, and that is a fact." Depending on the moment of when they are aborted. On a abortion before 9 weeks I'd agree with you that they don't feel yet. In the rest of abortions they do, and in some they feel more intensely than us. But let's say we're talking before 9 weeks. I didn't say the felt, I said they were affected. Whether they know it or not they are affected. That's why I put the unconscious scenario. If YOU are unconscious, you aren't aware of whether my actions affect you or not, they don't change the fact that they do. Would you care to respond whether or not, if someone rapes a drunk unconscious girl, is that person affected or not? "There are also women who have killed themselves trying to perform and abortion on themselves." Well then, that just increases the dangers of abortion. And, more importantly, it doesn't make abortion a moral thing to do. I'm sure many people get hurt in the performance or attempt at immoral things, that doesn't make the immoral moral. I'd need to research more into the subject of post-abortion depression. The whole point is not only about choice. Of course I want women to have choice. I want all people have as much choice possible, I also want those choices to be the best possible. But the limit on choices are other people. I want you to have the choice to have sex if you want, I don't want you to have the choice to rape someone if you want. I want you to have the choice of driving, I don't want you to have the choice of drunk driving. Same thing with abortion. It involves another human being(and I would say person), so you don't have 100% free choice as you don't do in almost anything. "No one is arguing that you should be able to kill someone in their sleep." It's not a false equivlance, I'll show the logic step by step. You argue that killing fetuses is not murder. It's not murder because they are not persons. You define personhood by consciousness. Unconscious people by definition DON'T have consciousness at that moment. At that moment those unconscious people, aren't really people, because they are not persons. Inevitable conclusion with your definition: Killing unconscious people is not murder. It's a step by step logical process where every point is preceded logically be the previous one. In order for you to invalidate the conclusion you would have to prove one of those axioms is mistaken(as they all logically follow from the previous then it would be hard to do) OR that your original premise(personhood is defined by consciousness) is mistaken. In an ideal world that woman would not get pregnant if she didn't want to. In an ideal world human beings wouldn't kill other human beings. Your scenario is far from perfect. The fact that no one knows that she has killed another human being does not make it so. There are multiple crimes that are commited in secret, it doesn't make them any less right. I'll paint another scenario equivalent to yours: In an ideal world, men would have their privacy respected. Imagine a man notices he's horny, he goes out, doesn't get lucky, goes back to his house, finds out one of his friends is unconsciously drunk in the couch. He considers his options and decides to have sex with her with a condom. He doesn't even have to leave the privacy and comfort of his house, get rejected or anything, he just has sex, and that's it. It's over. No one will ever know. Does that seem like an ideal scenario for you? "If I were to kill you in your sleep, it would be the same, now would it?" It would be the same as what? I'm sorry I'm not clear on what you mean by same, as what? "You are a person with memories, a personality, feelings, dreams, desires, aspirations, and so on. If I killed you, all of those things that make you, you, would be gone." Yes, they would be gone. Why is that important?(I agree that it is, 100%. I want to know how you came to that conclusion). If you are unconscious all of those things are also temporarily gone. While you are unconscious you don't have memories, a personality, feelings, dreams, desires, aspirations or anything else. Furthermore, animals have all those things you mentioned. You don't consider them human. You consider humans human though, that's a big difference. Also, not sure what you mean by exactly all of those things. There are people who don't have dreams or aspirations. There are people who don't have feelings, for example during anesthesia or unconsciousness.

Thanks for the thoughtful response. My point is not getting across. Maybe it's a reading-comprehension issue on your part, maybe it's an issue of explaining incorrectly on my part. Here's what you said: "His greatest point, however, is that what someone considers significant in regards to human life is different for everyone; that is to say, the value of a fetus is subjective." "As he noted in his lecture, your lifestyle, profession, religious beliefs, and so on can all play a role in what you believe makes someone a "person". For some its when they are viable, for others its once they mental capacity, and for some its like i said, simply belonging to the species, homo sapiens." "The point is to emphasize the fact that the morality of abortions should be determined by personal belief, not the law. " That's equating the human life as being subjective and personhood being subjective and therefore it has a subjective valued based on the mother's opinion. That's the position you are defending. That both personhood and the life of human value is subjective. Before going forward I want to verify if that indeed is the position you are defending.

That's because you've already decided there's a categorical difference between a fetus and a more developed human being. Also, I think you're mistakenly using the word subjective here. If the fetus is not a person, then that's not subjective, it's objective. Subjective means that it's dependent on the subject, which means it has no real value when you're legislating laws or in moral issues. Because it basically means what the subject is saying at that moment. "The fetus affects the woman's life in a very drastic way". Also the woman's life affects the fetus in a much more drastic way. A fetus can't decide to kill a mother, a mother can decide to kil lthe fetus. So the mother can affect the fetus in a much more drastic way than the fetus can the mother. There's also several instances where a grown up human being can affect the life of another human being. In very few does that justify the murder of that human being. "Second, the fetus is attached to the mother, and cannot live independently." Babies can't live independently. In fact, we all depend on other people to various levels of degree. If all other humans were gone from earth, I would be death soon. Small children depend on their parents too for their existence. Even so, why does that make life less valuable? "Finally, the fetus is incapable of suffering, thought, expression and so on. In many instances the killing of someone or thing that cannot experience these things would be considered wrong" But why are they considered wrong. If a fetus is not a person in lieu of not having those attributes, it would follow that if a grown up human being didn't have those attributes they wouldn't be a person either. Whether the woman's rights are superior to the fetus's rights is a step further on the discussion, we first need to clarify if fetuses have rights, if they are persons or not, what is personhood, etc..



So many typos. The doctor diagnosed her as mentally fit to have another child so she could get an abortion? That doesn't make sense.



Complete bullshit headline from The Hill. "federal Title X funding for services related to contraception, fertility, pregnancy care and cervical cancer screenings to health providers" is not equal to "abortion provider funding."
It was close.
and want to share their story as part of a photojournalism project for a magazine. interested in all ages, races and ethnicities from all types of backgrounds and upbringings.must be willing to share details of their decision, procedure/appointments and their feelings before, during and afterwards.looking for women who are both happy and unhappy with the decision they made. must be willing to be photographed, as well.please message me if you are one of these women or if you know one of them who would be interested in this project.thank you!
I know you specifically asked for residents of Chicago . But I live in Indiana and had an abortion a few months ago . I'm 19
Hi Kayyaso! Thanks for reaching out! I'd love to tell you more about this and see if you'd be interested despite being outside of Chicago. As you saw, I'm currently in the process of rounding up women to participate. For a little bit of background: This is a photojournalism piece with identifying information. It will feature portraits of all women as well as bits and pieces of their stories to shed a realistic light on abortion and the way it effects women. After I have a handful of participants, I'll be setting up a time for us to meet and chat about your experience(s) as well as have your photograph taken by the photographer helping me with this project. He and I are submitting to magazines, so no one publication has asked us to do this, but rather we are pitching because of our personal experiences. We will be submitting to a handful of Hearst publications (Lenny Letter, Cosmopolitan, Harpars Bazaar and Elle). If this is something you'd be interested in participating in, would you be willing to share your email address with me? Thanks so much!
I'm sorry it's taken me so long to get back to you , it was a tough decision because the price will be identifying me and some of my family members are unaware of my abortion . I would like to help end the stigma  that is put on women who have had abortions though and I'd be interested in sharing my story .
Hey everyone!I am conducting some research on the relationship between the Pro-Choice and Pro-Life movements in the US, and I would love your feedback. I am essentially studying how each group feels about the other group, and how these relations influence policy work in regards to abortion. How do you feel about the Pro-Life movement? What frustrates you, and what do you wish Pro-Life supporters understood better?I believe a better understanding of the dynamic between these two (often incredibly polarized) groups can contribute to more cooperative work when it comes to the creation of policy and activism in the US.  If you agree or disagree, I would also love to hear what you have to say.If you'd like to offer any feedback, I'm collecting completely anonymous responses on this form below: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfYOfZRdQ5lmhJWAViVmcUyqdPE00gtiN13nWE2htcWJT4LXA/viewform?usp=sf_link Of course, I'd also appreciate anyone who just wants to comment their opinions here. Thanks for your time!
Pro-choicers are often very explicit about where the overlap and common ground might be found - from supporting sex ed and access to birth control to supporting women who are pregnant to be able to have and support their children. The response from pro-lifers on these issues tends to be complete silence, bad science about birth control being tantamount to abortion, or a diatribe about personal responsibility.  This makes it hard to believe that they are engaging in the discussion of reducing abortion in good faith. Since the only political advocacy coming from the pro-life movement is diametrically opposed to the pro-choice stance (that is, limiting access to abortion), it's really hard to find common ground.
Agreed; on all points.   Some "pro-life" extremists are even against comprehensive sex education programs in public middle and high schools in the U.S., so I really don't believe there's any common ground between the two groups. For me, the pro-choice position is reduced to just four simple words:  "let EACH woman decide."  That's what it has always been about, each woman deciding for HERSELF whether to continue a pregnancy or not, or choosing to avoid pregnancy altogether by using contraception to prevent it.   I see reproduction as purely an individual choice, and if some women choose never to reproduce, that's their right as well.
I think universal health care, paid maternity/parental leave and better adoption services would be good common ground.
You would think so, but somehow those ideas only come from the pro-choice side of the political equation.
They are not truly trying to get rid of abortion. The rates in countries where it is legal is 34 in every 1000 women vs where it's illegal it's 37 in every 1000. The pro life movement is not about ending abortion, it's about trying to police everyone to live by a select few's moral standards so that they can live in a fantasy world and police people's views and choices while taking away women's bodily autonomy.
I have no respect for pro-lifers who have inconsistant views (abortion is okay for rape) because that just shows birth is a punishment to them since its no less of a fetus/baby regardless of how it was conceived. I can understand the veiwpoint of pro-lifers who are consistent in their beliefs.
Also, where are women who were victims of rape supposed to go to get the abortions you've deemed "not murder" if you cheer every effort that tries to shut down the only abortion clinic left in your state?
Well I don't think it's inconsistent if you consider their perceptive. In the prolifer's view (the one who accepts the rape exception), their reasoning is that since the parent's action caused the child's existence they are thus, bound by moral and legal parental responsibility. A rape victim can not be forced to take on moral and legal parental responsibility since their actions did not cause the child's situation.
That lowers the child value from being human with equal rights to simply being a responsibility, a consequence.
Really?. How so? Considering that parents are in fact legally bound by duty of care or parental responsibility laws because the law recognizes that actions carry consequences and responsibilities. And taking into account that much of the prolife rhetoric against the bodily autonomy argument is based on this principle, I don't see it as much of a stretch that there are these group of prolifers who say that without consent to the action there is no way to bind that parent to duty of care.
By that argument, then abortion itself is a consequence, or a moral responsibility if you can't take care of it. If someone thinks abortion is murder then I can't see how murder is okay just because you didn't consent to something. It's one or the other.
I don't really see this. Perhaps adoption would be though. I see what you are getting at but I think it's because of a distinction between types of rights. Think of the following scenarios. Some stranger has a degenerating disease and the only way to survive is to hook up his organs to a healthy individual for a few months. In the middle of the night he picks a candidate and forcibly performs a medical procedure rendering him attached to this other unwilling person. I don't think anyone would expect this person to remain attached to the maniac who forced himself into attachment. On the other hand, imagine that the person with a degenerating disease tries and finds someone who willfully consent to the procedure. The willing candidate signs the consent forms and doctors start the surgery. When the surgery is complete I don't think anyone would think it is ok for the healthy individual to detach. Keep in mind that these are just imaginary sketches to help show that consent can change how we view a moral dilemma. They are not meant to be completely analogous to pregnancy/abortion. But I think they do illustrate that there are different expectations in the two scenarios because one involves consent and the other does not.
Pro-lifers are usually religious fanatics who want everyone to be governed by their fantastical beliefs. They live by emotion rather than reason. I have zero respect for those people. They value an imaginary child--who is just a blob of bloody tissue when most abortions occur at the embryonic stage--over a living, breathing woman.
Pro-Lifers are usually religious fanatics. Did, did you really just say that? Sure, some pro-lifers are fanatically religious, but definitely not the majority. Also, we live by emotion? I base my belief that abortion is wrong by ethics, not emotions. Secondly, wat? Do you have any sources to back up the claim that most abortions take place during the embryonic stage? Around 90% of all abortions take place during the First Trimester, also known as, the first 12 weeks of pregnancy. Look at ultrasounds of 12 week olds. Do they look like random blobs of matter?
The egg is fertilized at two weeks of pregnancy (gestational age counts from the last menstrual cycle). The last Carnegie embryonic stage (23) concludes around 8 weeks after fertilization, or at 10 weeks of pregnancy. Two-thirds of abortions take place on or before 8 weeks of pregnancy. That would be ~6 weeks after fertilization or Carnegie stage 16 or 17 or before. If we are using "looks like" as a criteria for judging a typical abortion at 8 weeks, these embryos are around the size of a kidney bean, barely have limbs and have tails. They could be mistaken for any other animal embryo. Of course, the 50% mark is probably more likely to hit around 6 weeks (4 weeks post-fertilization) when the embryo is the size of a pomegranate seed and far less developed. (Stages 10-13). But to answer you question, it seems that ~80% of abortions take place at 10 weeks or before. Ergo, most abortions take place well within the embryonic stages.
Percentage of 2013 Reported Abortions by Weeks of Gestation* (CDC): ≤6 wks   34.6% 7 wks      17.9% 8 wks      13.4% *9 wks       8.6% *10 wks     5.8% Total of embryonic abortions --more than 81%. "Gestational weeks are measured from the first day of the woman's last menstruation and not from the day of conception. Though it does not provide an accurate fetal age (which is roughly 2 weeks less than the gestational age), it is the simplest way for an OB/GYN to age a pregnancy since the day of conception is often not known. Hence, if an abortion occurs at 8 weeks gestation, it is actually aborting a 6 week embryo. The images on our Prenatal Development and Abortion Pictures pages are more precisely captioned with fetal ages in accordance with standard teaching texts on prenatal development."
I think that all you have to say is " abortion is killing babies " and people will get behind it . Some pro-life people actually do their research but unintentionally get sucked in by "alternative facts " that fuel their hate speech without any kind of real science to back it up
Something I can book mark when someone tries to use them in a discussion.
Thepillkills.org or lifesite news

stop paying taxes
And go to jail


I am pro choice and do come up with a few arguments. Sometimes pro-lifers counter with some arguments to which I have no answer to, and I would love it if someone could help me out. In other words, if you would like to, help me answer the counter.If I were to starve myself, and the fetus dies, this proves that it is my body, my choice. Counter: If a mom stops feeding a child, it's her choice to not take any action to feed the child. That of course is murder due to negligence.Just like with coma patients, the 'feeder' has the right pull the plug. Counter: Again, same with the mom refuses to feed child.A dead body has more rights than a pregnant women. Counter: Pretty much the same thing as 1 and 2. Thanks for your help in advance!
Those arguments aren't comparable to your arguments, that's the problem. Willfully neglecting a child is abuse and is cruel, you cannot compare bodily autonomy to willfully endangering and harming a child. Choosing to end a pregnancy if we were going to compare it to a woman not wanting to care for an already born child would involve the mother surrendering or giving the child up for adoption. They're trying to make a weird comparison where choosing not to donate blood to someone who would die without it is the exact same thing as murdering the person who needs blood. As anyone could tell that's absolute bullshit and requires mental gymnastics. So the convo tends to go like this: Women have bodily autonomy which means no one is allowed to use her body without her consent. So if a woman doesn't want to have a child anymore she can just stop feeding it? If a woman no longer wishes to be responsible for a child she can either surrender or give the child up for adoption.
I think you're wrong. The example you put about the comparison is flawed. It doesn't go about choosing not to donate blood to someone over murdering the person who needs blood, it goes choosing to donate blood to someone and not to another on the basis that the other someone is not an actual person. That's an exact analogy. Also, it goes further than that, abortion is the active part. You can't decide not to give sustainance to the fetus as you would decide not to give blood to someone. Your body is geared for it and doesn't ask for your permission. So in order for it to stop you have to take an active part in the process and actually kill it. Also, why can't I compare bodily autonomy to real autonomy? Whether I feed or not a child involves choice and autonomy too. I don't even need to do anything, I just need to stop doing something I don't want doing. On the other hand, abortion involves actually doing something. If they're not comparable is in that, but besides that, it's the same thing, only one you recognize as a person and the other one you don't. Killing a human being because it's convenient and you don't recognize its personhood is also cruel and abusive I'd say. She can surrender or give up the child for adoption, but what if she doesn't want to do anything? I mean, that's what autonomy means, right? You can't decide for her, what if she doesn't want to surrender or give up the child up for adoption? That would mean she has to do something, go through a process. But what if she doesn't want to take that time and effort, what if she just wants to ignore the kid? Why are you deciding for her what she does or doesn't do?
The purpose of an abortion is to remove a fetus from a person's body. The fetus being destroyed in the process is simply a result of the fact that the fetus cannot survive outside of the uterus by itself and the process of removing it is destructive to the fetus. This doesn't change anything. The person has the right to bodily autonomy regardless of if the fetus must be destroyed in the process of achieving that bodily autonomy. Just the same way a person can maim, or even kill someone who is violating their bodily autonomy such as in the case of rape. Defending your bodily autonomy is a pretty active role, just like taking the steps to surrender your child is an active role, just like seeking an abortion is an active role. Choosing to not abort is passive, choosing to stop feeding your child is passive, so what argument are you trying to make here? Just because a woman doesn't want to care for a born, sentient child does not mean she is allowed to willfully harm or endanger that child. It has literally nothing to do with bodily autonomy and to say it does is grasping at straws. If a person does not wish to care for a child they may surrender their child but that is their only option. But I'm not going to attempt to argue against someone willfully distorting the meaning of bodily autonomy in an attempt to prove abortion is somehow just like actively harming a child. There is no point in having that conversation. If someone wants to properly educate themselves on the extent of bodily autonomy I will encourage them to do so but it is not my job to describe the definition of something to someone, repeatedly, I might add, because the other part will just continue distorting the term to serve their flawed argument.
The point I made was that your example was flawed and why it was flawed. If you read my argument, I didn't say bodily autonomy. I said autonomy. I precisely explained the difference and stated that if bodily autonomy is important, autonomy as a whole is more important of a right. It seems you just ignored that part and misrepresented my whole argument. Obviously I'm not saying that being neglectful against a kid has to do with your bodily autonomy(you would have to explain what that means exactly) but it has to do with your autonomy(your independence of action). Before continuing will you admit that you misrepresented my argument and put words in my mouth? This is what I actually said: "Also, why can't I compare bodily autonomy to real autonomy? Whether I feed or not a child involves choice and autonomy too."
I'm not arguing against you, the original point of this post was to argue against this specific situation of bodily autonomy and how the argument typically goes bodily autonomy == being allowed to willfully endanger a child. Which isn't the case. I'm still talking about the original point brought up by OP, I never put words in your mouth I was specifically talking about the way this argument typical goes as OP described it and never referred to you. I specifically used phrasing that I though made that clear that I was talking about this imagined person and not you. To answer your question, you can't because they aren't the same. Just because I can rob a bank or murder someone or do anything else because I have the autonomy to do so does not have any effect on my bodily autonomy. Just because I can have a child and abuse said child doesn't change the fact that I can still deny someone access to my body. In what way does this effect the discussion of abortion? It's only ever brought up an attempts to try and make it sound like bodily autonomy should be allowed to be policed and controlled to the same degree as autonomy. My bodily autonomy is not violated by having my autonomy policed. Having punishments in place to force me to wear a seatbelt doesn't violate my bodily autonomy even though it controls my autonomy. At the end of the day this is a conversation I don't want to have. I've had it one too many times and it's fruitless every time. I defended my point about bodily autonomy, which was the original discussion, but if you'd like to have a conversation about its relation with autonomy you'll have to find someone else since I'm not interested in having it for the umpteenth time. You're more that welcome to respond and I will take the time to read your response but I won't be replying. I encourage anyone else who wants to to engage you further on it.
Oh, I thought you were talking about me, not some imaginary person. Reading it again it's clear I misunderstood you. My bad :P I agree that they aren't the same. I think bodily autonomy is a subset of autonomy. So autonomy in general is superior to just bodily autonomy. But we defend the right to bodily autonomy, because we defend the right to autonomy. There's nothing special about it being BODILY autonomy, because the important concept about it is the autonomy part. My main point is that we restrict autonomy, legally and morally. Not only on ourselves but also in relation to other people. Not only we do but we should, it's good that we do so. That autonomy restriction involves when there's harm to another human being. So if we restrict autonomy generally when there's harm to another human being why shouldn't we restrict bodily autonomy which is a subset of that autonomy and given that general autonomy is more precious than its subset bodily autonomy. I understand you, I've also had conversations about different subjects where I repeat my arguments. Ironically, abortion is one of those. So, it's perfectly fine if you don't want to keep having this discussion. Have a great day
You don't have to feed your child though. Yes, you have to go through an official process to hand the child over to the state, but you can 100% opt out of feeding it if you don't want to. Just like you have to go through an official process to get an abortion rather than ripping it out yourself. Or go through an official process to get approval for pulling the plug on a coma patient. Just because there's a short delay on being able to do something doesn't mean you don't have the right to do it. For example, the requirement to apply for a passport and wait for it to arrive doesn't mean you don't have the right to travel.
It's a good point. I'll think about it as I don't want to give an immediate response to a new argument. But on your point about passport and right to travel... it does mean it's being negated. Not legally but philosophically and realistically. If I don't apply for a passport and try to travel I won't be allowed to, that is, my right to travel won't be recognized at that moment. It means also that there are restrictions to those rights. Also if there's a process for approval it means it's not a definitive right, as it's subjective to the person doing the approval(same with passports actually). That means it can be disproved, which means my right can be denied.
No one is required to feed their child from their body (breastfeed) under any circumstances. People can give their children up for adoption in lieu of feeding them. In situations that are resource constrained enough that people are not able to surrender their children, infant death from malnutrition is not criminalized, but simply treated as a tragedy and the parents are presumed to have done their best with the resources they had. People require bodily autonomy because they cannot avoid making (sometimes very hard) choices regarding how to best spend their resources (of which their body is one).  How to approach infant feeding is another. Remind them that the majority of women who abort are already mothers, and have responsibilities to other children, they may have responsibilities to their country/religion, etc.  Here, you have to demonstrate that bodily autonomy is not a luxury borne out of selfishness (often the narrative pro-lifers are starting with) but a necessity for any person who must make difficult moral decisions. I tend to find that pro-lifers have impoverished imaginations with regards to the situations that pregnant women may find themselves in. Because they can't imagine the varied situations, they can't respond empathically. This also drives "the only moral abortion is my abortion" effect because they can see their own need for autonomy more clearly when it hasn't been oversimplified. Have a better imagination. Base it on reality. Share it with them. Feel free to scroll through my comments for examples. I discuss this type of thing with people a lot.
I prefer the parasitic relationship argument. It ends the need to define when life begins and grants a power to the mother that is akin to you removing a tick from your skin, or a tapeworm from your digestive system. I personally believe life begins at conception and that ending a pregnancy is ending a human life. The addendum to that is that during pregnancy, the child is parasitic to the mother, host, who ultimately get to choose who gets a free ride or not. I do not consider it murder or inherently morally "wrong," and try not to judge the reasons why a mother may want to end a pregnancy, as it has literally nothing to do with her right to do so in my eyes.
But she didn't get pregnant out of the blue. She's responsible for the human being inside her. Comparing a living human being to a parasite is wrong. You're talking out of a certain personal ideology rather than biology. Biologically speaking a fetus is not a parasite. So you're using the word parasite to mean something that's not a parasite. You're talking about philosophically parasitic behaviour. Which is also not true as proven by biology(that's why babies are not parasites according to biology). But even the mere philosophical argument has flaws. I could take the time to lay them out, but I'd first like you to concede the misnaming of a human baby as a parasite biologically before we even pursue the philosophical venue
Yes, I concede I am actively and knowingly using the term incorrectly regarding its biological definition. The relationship between the two, from the mothers standpoint only, is philosophically   parasitic to a degree, even if it doesn't fully encompass he entire relationship between host and parasite. I do think how she gets pregnant or the viability of the child are both incredibly important even though I said I try not to judge in my earlier post. Simply put, it's often impossible for an outsider to know how to weigh all of the issues around the situation. I don't have a good way of saying the following, but pregnancy as birth control is shameful and should be punished. I don't have a clue on how our society would achieve that. I also think brining babies to term that are non viable or potentially unable to care for themselves is a pointless endeavor and making a mother carry a non viable fetus to term is also shameful. I'm personally divided on situations involving rape, because that word has lost almost all concrete meaning now and is applied to situations that are not classically rape. I'm gonna shut up before i get in trouble for victim blaming, but the word "victim" has also been blurred recently. I welcome your response re the philosophical use of parasite, and other ideas. #civildiscourse
I appreciate your response and your attitude towards as you say civil discourse. You acknowledge that it's not really a parasite. So, it's merely a philosophical concept and to a certain degree. I imagine that the only aspect of parasitic behaviour you're comparing with fetuses is the fact that the mother shares resources with it. But we share resources with different people and it's not viewed as parasitic. What's viewed as parasitic is if it is unilateral. But as biology proves, the relationship between mother-son/daughter is not unilateral, the fetus strengthens the mother, making her more fit biologically speaking. Philosophically speaking it's very hard to draw the line between parasitic or not as it would necessarily have a thing to do with value. Let's say for example a person living in my house but doesn't pay the rent... are they parasitic? You could say children are parasitic. A person of 12 is parasitic then. Well what if they don't pay rent but provide value in another way? I doubt you'd call Picasso as parasitic and the value of the painting(his work) is subjective. Some might say what he does is useless and without value, and therefore he would be living off without giving real value. You see the flaws in the argument? Also... If for some reason there were a case were this misrepresentation of parasitic behaviour(this is not a personal attack, it's not the accurate representation of actual parasitic behaviour) were true does it mean we're free to kill that person? What would be the justification? If I own a large extension of land that I have never used and then go and visit it and find a family living there, cultivating the land but not paying me anything, do I have the right to massacre them? After all, they are being parasites. This also, without taking into consideration that children share that philosophical parasitic behaviour you mention. Do I get to stop feeding my 10 month old and let him to die because they're parasitic? Or actively kill it? It's important, because how we got to a point is important. It illustrates the part I had in creating(or not) of a situation. Do I have to pay another person part of my income if I don't want to? Well, if you're the parent you have, both morally and legally. There's a responsibility for the actions and between parents and their children. That's why it's important. If you're talking about talking because we don't have all the information... well, I doubt the mother has all the information too. But we have to act with what we know. And I agree, I usually, don't judge people, no matter what they do. But what I DO is judge the actions and fight against them. I actually don't condemn or judge for example a rapist... maybe if I had been in the same situation than him I would act the same way, who knows, and the same thing with drugs, theft, murder, etc... that doesn't mean I can't say that rape is wrong and try to fight it. I don't understand your point on this about birth control. I agree that rape has a different meaning to what it was traditionally meant. And there are huge gray areas involving usual human behaviour and alcohol and removing the benefit of the doubt towards men. Im usually torn about abortion regarding rape, because yes, the mother is a victim(if it was a rape), but so is the other human being in her womb. Killing one doesn't make the rape go away.
The woman's body being in "pregnancy mode" strengthens the mother, not the fetus directly. Your second paragraph has too many scenarios to address individually, however, each of your examples (except the picasso one, I have no idea what you mean there) is drastically different than a mother/fetus because your examples have people who are not physically attached, and the "host" has an option to direct how the resources are being shared. Your example of someone not paying rent, well, that's clearly not a whole picture. Are they mowing the lawn and cleaning instead? Are they a child, who will eventually take care of the parent when the parent is old? That example is tough to use, but I would indeed say if you had a couch potato who offered literally nothing in return to the relationship, then yes that relationship is parasitic. RE: birth control, some folks use abortion as a form of birth control. If you haven't heard that argument, you should google it; it's captivating from both sides. Thanks for your reply. I'll be ending my discourse here, as it doesn't seem that either of us are going to get anything else from it.


100% of proceeds from these pins go to IPPF. Check them out here: https://www.etsy.com/listing/504435332/rose-gold-pussy-hat-hard-enamel-pin This design is also available: https://www.etsy.com/listing/517049825/pussy-hat-soft-enamel-pin Thanks for your support!
Thanks for sharing.  Ordered.
Thank you!
Thanks, ordered.

Help support women keeping their right to choose.
I'm still waiting for political T-shirts in plus sizes.
what size would you need?
Personally, probably 1X or 2X, depending on sizing, of course.  But really, up to a 3X would be ideal for most folks.
I never get this line of reasoning. I mean half of the human fetuses being aborted are female and have their own ovaries, don't they get a choice? Afterall, isn't is their ovaries being killed? Just thought you might like to know what goes through a prolifers mind. Well, mine anyway.
Technically speaking, a majority of women get abortions before the 9-10 week mark, and before that time period the fetus is gender less. And unfortunately (and contrary to what so many pro-lifers believe) most women who undergo a "late term" abortion are doing so for medical reasons either for her or her baby, regardless of their gender.
Well, to be more accurate most abortion take place by 12 weeks. See graph here. And the sex of a human being is determined by chromosomes and are present at the moment of fertilization. Sex organs are visible by 6-7 weeks. But check out the development of a fetus/preborn child here. Sexual organs are already present by 6-7 weeks. Pretty cool. Unfortunately this is not actually the case. See here. 71% Woman didn't recognize she was pregnant or misjudged gestation.
I heard today from someone that Trump is trying to lower the weeks a woman is allowed to get an abortion. I did some googling but all I can find is information on what he did about the Hyde Ammendment.Have any of you heard this too or is it just a rumor? I'm very concerned about what choices women will be left with their bodies by the end of his presidency... :/
As far as I know he hasn't recently made an explicit statement regarding termination after a certain amount of time, but that shouldn't reassure you. The current administration is very hostile to reproductive justice in all forms and with a Republican congress, chances are that things will be changing. Right now, we have a few Supreme Court decisions standing that limit what congress can do regarding reproductive justice and specifically abortion, but Trump has already appointed a justice who is hostile to women's rights and will likely have the chance to do so again, if not twice. Take extra steps to manage your fertility (get on a LARC, have your local Planned Parenthood give you an extra Plan B pill to stock in your medicine cabinet, etc) and do what's within your power to get politically involved (donate resources, time, or money to PP or other whole women's health clinics; vote in midterms; shop at businesses that support or donate to causes like NARAL or PP) and your anxiety will go down because you know you're doing everything in your power to fight against this fascist Cheeto.
Thank you so much for the information. I will get extra Plan B, that is a great idea. I also have my amazon smile donation set to donate to the Planned Parenthoods of my state. But man does he scare me. I'm currently trying to find a doctor to tie my tubes because for dozens of reasons and long story short, having kids is not an option for me, ever. I'm terrified as to what will happen to abortion laws and can only see them getting stricter and becoming an even harder procedure to get done. A family member told me that she thinks since abortion and women's reproductive rights survived the Bush administration, they'll survive a Trump administration. Do you think so too or is that just wishful thinking?
The only thing I've seen in the news recently was the informal offer from the White House to preserve Planned Parenthood funding if they stopped offering abortions. Honestly, the president's power in this arena has mostly already been exercised: like his Republican predecessors, he reinstated the global gag rule and nominated an anti-abortion individual to the Supreme Court.  Other than executive orders or how he instructs the executive branch to handle federal crimes (like in relation to the FACE Act), the only other thing he has is signing legislation that comes across his desk, and that's where the real danger lies. Bills like the so-called "Hearbeat Bill" (H.R. 490) introduced by Steve King back in January are so extreme (banning abortion at 6 weeks) that they're unlikely to make it out of committee . . . but the same cannot be said for more "reasonable" legislation like 2015's Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, which would have banned abortion after 20 weeks.  With majorities in the House and Senate, the question is when Congress becomes bold enough to try to pass something similar, knowing it will not be vetoed. To be quite honest, though, at the moment, the biggest active enemy of abortion access is State legislature and the governors signing legislation making it more and more difficult for doctors to provide abortions and women to get them without big and sometimes insurmountable hurdles.
"...the biggest active enemy of abortion access is State legislature and the governors signing legislation..." Totally agree; state legislatures and anti-choice state politicians are the biggest enemies of the woman's right to access abortion, and in some cases, access to contraception as well.  I'm just grateful that my reproductive years are behind me. For girls and all women who have plenty of reproductive years ahead of them, this is a very frightening time, especially those stuck in red states like Texas.  If I were starting all over again and knew I never wanted children, I would be actively seeking a doctor who will perform a tubal ligation to make sure I won't get pregnant at all.
Oh my goodness this is fucking terrifying. I can't even explain how angry it makes me that some male politicians are telling women what they can do with their bodies. So disgusting and vile. I'm trying so hard to get my tubes tied. This scares me so much and I'm horrified for what future challenges women will face. :(
What's the holdup on you getting your tubes tied?
Many doctors refuse to perform tubal ligations on women younger than 30, convinced that they will change their minds later on.  That can make it extremely hard for women between the ages of 18 and 30 to have the procedure done, especially if they live in rural and/or conservative areas.
I know, but there are a couple other possible reasons she could have been saying it, and I didn't want to assume.
Ironically 9 of the top 10 states with the highest teen pregnancy rates are republican states, New Mexico being the only exception.
not sure what state you're in, but in california you can do it if you go through six months of therapy, you can have tubal litigation. And if you go through planned parenthood you can do it faster.
u/Susan102 is right. Doctors think women "Will change their minds" and are very apprehensive to do it on younger women. I have a doctor's appointment in a couple weeks to discuss getting a tubal ligation.  In my state, you have to be 21 to get the procedure done. I'll be 21 in a couple months so I'm hoping that I can convince him that if the state says I'm old enough to make the decision, I should be able to make the decision. It seems like at any age, a girl can decide to be a mother, even if it's at 15 there will always be someone to "congratulate" her. But there's never an age she can decide she doesn't want to be a mom. Like wtf, people don't tell pregnant women they'll change their mind. To me, it's no different. But I'm not going to stop trying until I get it. If it ever got to the point where abortion was so hard to get that I passed the amount of weeks allowed, I'd either give myself an abortion or kill myself. I have no maternal bone in my body and I'd rather "regret" not having kids than having kids that I know I'll regret. But I know I will never change my mind. I'm on meds that you can't take while pregnant and if I were to suddenly go  off them to protect the fetus, I'd become a danger to myself and possibly others, which is why I need it so bad. I feel like I'm prisoner to my own body. Sorry for the rant..didn't know that'd come all out. But yeah, doctors don't like to give women my age the choice to not be a mom. :/
My feeling is that people should have a right to make a decision that they may regret later.  Humans get tattoos, get drunk, call exes... all these things that are legal and that are their own fault if they regret.  But others feel differently.  It's tough being a doctor and taking responsibility for the decisions patients make with your counseling.  Please approach your appointment with some sympathy. Remember that the long-acting options (IUD, Nexplanon) are as effective if not more effective than tubal ligation, which makes it tough for us to defend the decision to sterilize young nulliparous women.  If the doctor you see won't do it, ask for a referral. Feel free to PM me your state and I'll let you know if I know anybody there who would do it.
I sent a PM your way. I can definitely see where the doctors are coming from. They don't want to have a play in something that someone may end up regretting. It's just I've  have read so many stories of  women being denied it by a doctor with them saying something like "you'll change your mind when you meet the right guy." I'm praying my doctor won't say something like that. :/ I thought about getting an IUD but I'm so terrified of having the procedure done, for  the same reason I hope I'll  never have to get an abortion.  Even getting a pap smear was horrible because my anxiety is so bad and I haven't been back to do it again since. I'd get Nexplanon except a few years ago I got the older version,  Implanon and had horrible symptoms. I was sweating so bad that my clothes were getting soaked even just sitting there. I broke out the worst I've ever had and gained 8 lbs in a single week. My gyno agreed to remove it and said those symptoms probably happened because I'm pretty small and the hormones in it were too much for my system. I'm happy with the pill,  I just wish I could be sterilized so I don't have to worry about getting an abortion, both because the experience would traumatize me especially because I can't even handle a pap, and because I'm worried abortion will get even harder to access. :/
You may be able to find a doctor willing to do IUD insertion under some degree of sedation.
She isn't pregnant (yet, as far as we know) but she asked what it would mean if she didn't change my mind, or I didn't change hers. And I would simply not have unprotected sex with her, because if I had a disabled child I would take care of that child, but I would prefer not to have them if I could in advance.We are both open minded and have some background in science (unrelated to abortion!). We figure that sorting these issues out earlier will prevent us getting too emotional about it needless close to an 'emergency'.
there's nothing to resolve.  Either break up with her, never get her pregnant, or risk raising a child with congenital defects.
Yeah, if she is willing to give her whole life to caring for a child with medical issues and you aren't that's kind of a deal breaker.
IMO there are only two ways to resolve this type of fundamental disagreement.  You either end this relationship now or risk getting her pregnant and end up raising a child with one or more serious congenital issues. If you really don't want to risk the chance of raising a child with serious medical problems, I think ending things now is your way to "resolve this."  You can't force her to have an abortion just because that's what you would want, nor should you be able to do so.
deleted  0.2937 What is ^^^this?
Don't even try. Just go.
The thing lacking in this whole situation is how would being born with a disability affect the child and their quality of life.
How do we resolve this? You adopt a healthy kid or you break up.
deleted  0.6760 What is ^^^this?
Yuck? Really? You're going to risk unwillingly raising a disabled kid for the rest of your lives, because yuck? Get your priorities straight before you get into another relationship.
You should both do some volunteer work with disabled kids and talk to their parents. You should also both find some real stories about taking care of disabled kids. And, don't forget the kids in your will, you may need to set up something like a trust fund to take care of them for the rest of their lives. If you two don't agree soon, break up. It's playing Russian roulette with your marriage (if you got that far).
The only way to resolve this is for one of you to change your mind to agree with the other. If neither of you are willing to shift your perspective, then do everything you can to not get her pregnant ever, or break-up.

Absolutely. Personally, I hope we don't see that technology because I could see the anti- choicers in the government mandating that's what must be done if a woman chooses to not carry on with her pregnancy, and no one should be "mandated" to make a decision when it comes to their body.
If you're willing to pay for the embryo to be raised in the womb and throughout its childhood, and the procedure for extracting it is no more invasive or risky than abortion, and I can remain completely anonymous to the resulting child, sure. Basically, I support this if and only if the woman's experience is identical to abortion.
I could easily imagine people who've been raped or have less than ideal genes would still want them, so yeah. But that idea would be cool, I guess, so long as it's established before birth that there are parents who want the kids.
Yes.  A woman should always have the right to terminate a pregnancy for any reason.  That includes the two most basic reasons of all:  "I don't want to be pregnant" and "I don't want a baby."
But this would solve both of those. You wouldn't be pregnant if the embryo is extracted, and I'm assuming that you wouldn't have to keep the baby, you would be able to have it extracted for adoption, it would be gestated artificially.
None of this matters to me.  First of all, this so-called "technology" isn't available at this time anyway. Second, even if it was, I'm not buying the argument that it would solve anything for the woman who doesn't want to be pregnant or doesn't want a baby.  The current method of abortion does solve it, whether a woman decides to have a medical or surgical procedure.  My answer is still yes, I still support abortion, now and in the future.
Of course not, the point is this is a hypothetical about possible future technology. Self driving cars probably sounded ludicrous 20 years ago but are becoming a reality. I have often told pro-life people who ask things like "would you support an abortion ban if birth control were free and accessible, we had universal health care, adoption was streamlined, etc." and I say no because I still believe that women who don't want to be pregnant shouldn't have to be, the only thing that would make me accept that there's no need for abortion is if we had artificial wombs. You didn't really explain why this wouldn't solve anything for a woman who doesn't want to be pregnant or have a baby. This is a hypothetical that an embryo could be easily extracted at the time she would have had an abortion anyway, and it would be put into an artificial womb and someone else could adopt it. She would not carry the fetus to term or have to raise it. Yes, it would still exist in the world, but to me the abortion debate is more about autonomy, the risks and discomforts of pregnancy, and being forced to raise a child you don't want, not the existence of that child at all.
I support abortion past the date of viability, so changing the viability date doesn't make any different in my mind. Viability is no reason to oppose abortion.
I mean, I would think that if the fetus had developed enough to survive then the doctors could just induce labor or perform a c section, and then the mother could leave the newborn in the care of the hospital and adoptive parent(s). The idea of killing a viable baby makes me squeamish, but I know I can't (and shouldn't be allowed to) do anything to interfere with what a fellow woman wants to do with her uterus.
If "viability" is defined as "has reached a stage where it is almost a baby and can survive with the types of inputs given to a baby (e.g. milk and warmth)" then we're talking about a near-baby. However, if "viability" is defined as "can survive with the medical equipment of the day", then we are already at a point where we're not talking about about near-babies. It's conceivable that medical technology will make it increasingly possible to host ever younger fetuses. It is this second definition on viability that I find irrelevant to the morality of abortion. Otherwise, one day we'd have to take the next leap and say that every sperm is sacred.
Yes
Yea. Some women never want offspring so even if that technology were available, the choice of abortion should be available as well. This is a dumb question IMO
Yes, because a female makes her own medical choices. If both the hypothetical technology and abortion has the exact same result, ie termination of pregnancy, then it's up to the patient to decide. Doctors recommend either pills or counseling for depression or both (these were choices I were given, so i have personal experience) and while the doctor prefers I take the pills, it is up to me to decide what I wanted.
I would . But over pipulation is becoming a real problem and there are so many children without parents that need a family already . I think that if a child is unwanted , is not yet conscious or able to feel pain . We should not feel obligated to bring it into this world

In addition to the personhood argument, this is the pro-choice argument which I am tempted to view as the best one; basically, it's a four-point argument:As a general rule, killing someone in self-defense is morally justifiable.Existence isn't worse than non-existence.Thus, conceiving an embryo/fetus (and thus shifting its state from non-existence to existence) shouldn't generate any obligation towards this embryo/fetus on your part.Thus, killing this embryo/fetus in self-defense (via abortion) is morally justifiable.Any thoughts on this? After all, I am tempted to view this argument as more convincing that a straight-up "bodily autonomy is/should be absolute" argument (which even I myself don't fullyaccept).
It's not going to convince any pro-lifers.  The idea that a voluntary abortion is anything like a self defense situation would strike them as silly. Also the idea that you have no obligation to a child that you conceived would probably seem contrived.
I think most people would accept this. I would agree with that, but I don't think that you're saying anything meaningful here. I don't understand how point 3 follows from either of the first two points. How does the fact of conceiving an embryo necessarily mean that you therefore have no obligation towards it? Also, do you mean for this lack of obligation to extend to a two year old child? If not, why not? You need to define the term "self-defense" here. Also, you need to demonstrate how a lack of obligation translates to killing being justifiable. You may need to rethink and restate this argument. I don't see the logical chain between any of the elements.
I think a self defense argument makes sense.  To me it goes Self-defense: "The protection of one's person or property against some injury attempted by another." 94% of pregnancies have some kind of complication http://www.healthleadersmedia.com/finance/5-hospital-costs-attributed-maternal-care# Thus it's reasonable to assume as a pregnant person that you are likely to experience some kind of illness, injury, etc.  Additionally, it is impossible to give birth without physically needing to recover for at least 6 weeks.  If anyone else threatened to hurt you in a way that took 6 weeks to recover, you would absolutely be within your right to defend yourself. One necessity for self-defense is using reasonable force.  In the case of pregnancy, the only way to prevent the injury your fetus will cause you is to abort.  There's no other level of force with which you can defend yourself. Therefore, every pregnant woman is absolutely legally entitled to defend herself from the bodily harm that is very likely to come from pregnancy and giving birth.
There's a lot you gave in your response that I think is problematic. However, I'd like to focus on one part of it that genuinely made me think. I'm going to try to abstract this, and then apply. Essentially, I think what you're saying here is twofold: When employing self-defense, you need to use reasonable force. Also, that force can be reasonable if you have no lower-force options available to you (in other words, even if an action wouldn't ordinarily be reasonable force, if at the moment it's the lowest force option, then it becomes reasonable due to the lack of other options short of submitting to the threat). Is that a fair summation of what you said? Of course, we'd need to define reasonable force. Is it a reactionary force in proportion to the threatening force? Is it the lower of two choices: proportional force, or the minimum force available to you? Some other definition? I'm trying to apply the principle in a hypothetical. Suppose you find yourself bound with rope in a chair, completely unable to move your arms or legs or stand up from chair. You can see, hear, and speak fine, but not move. The only movement you have is your index finger, which can press a single button on the chair's armrest. This button, you know, actuates a device that will instantly kill anyone in the room, except for someone sitting in the chair that you are on. Now, suppose that there is a man in the room with you, and the following scenarios: *The man is advancing towards you with a knife, stating that he is going to kill you. *The man is silently but calmly advancing towards you with a knife. *The man is calmly advancing towards you, stating that he plans to cut the rope and free you. *The man is advancing towards you, stating his intention to physically assault and injure you. However, he will not kill you, will release you afterwards, and will ensure you receive medical care and make a full recovery after the attack. For the purposes of this hypothetical, you believe him. Now, in which cases would you be morally justified in pressing the button, and why? Now imagine some different scenarios: *A voice comes over the loudspeaker, stating that he will kill both of you in a few minutes, unless you press the button and kill the man in the room with you. *A voice comes over the loudspeaker and states that he will kill just you in a few minutes and release the other man, unless you press the button. *A voice comes over the loudspeaker and states that he will break your legs in a few minutes, and then release you and provide medical care; unless, of course, you press the button. In which situation would you be morally justified in pressing the button, and why?
Yes, I think that's a fair summation. I'm not a lawyer.  That said, here's my understanding of things.  You can defend yourself until the threat is neutralized.  If someone is trying to punch me and I'm able to restrain them on the ground, I can't then use self-defense as a justification to punch them.  However, as long as they are still a threat to me, I can escalate my use of force to protect myself.  If possible, I'm often obligated to retreat (though not in all states). In your scenario and in pregnancy, retreat is not an option and there's no "restraining on the ground" non-lethal use of force. I think legally it would be very reasonable to assume your life was in danger and you should use force to protect yourself. Given that you are restrained and he is a stranger, I think most people would be afraid for their lives in this scenario as well. Probably reasonable to be afraid and have your finger on the button, but I don't think it would legally hold up to shoot him.  Maybe, given that you are restrained (presumably by the man) and a stranger has a knife, it would be.  I doubt there's legal precedent for this. Yes, absolutely reasonable to defend yourself from injuries and pain and suffering using lethal force if necessary. I think legally you would not be in trouble for pushing the button.  I doubt this specific scenario has occurred.  However, with lifeguards, they are obligated to try to save a drowning person.  However, if that person gets ahold of them and is putting them at risk, they are taught how to escape the hold, swim away to safety, and try to help again.  They are not legally obligated to put their own life at risk to save someone else's. Again, I'm skeptical that there's legal precedent, but I think you are probably not legally obligated to die to save someone else. Hmmm, not sure on this one.  I can't think of an example where a person is legally obligated to endure non-lethal physical harm to save someone else's life. With your last three examples, they are completely unlike pregnancy because it is the fetus causing the risk/injury to the mother.  If an outsider said "Abort or I'll break your legs" or "Abort of I'll kill you" it would be different, in my mind.  But ultimately I do think you'd be within your right to abort in those scenarios.  Granted that would be tragic for wanted pregnancies and absolutely illegal for the outsider to make those threats.
Just want to say first of all, thanks for responding. My hypotheticals and scenarios were a legitimate thought experiment, where I'm not sure of what I believe in all the cases, so I do appreciate responses. These were all moral hypothetical dilemmas that I came up with on the fly, more or less. The aim is to apply moral standards or reasons to a hypothetical situation, to see if they seem to stand up to scrutiny. That's why, for example, in my hypotheticals, there's a lot of unrealistic factors. I restrain you and give you only one way of interacting to isolate the concept of lethal force in self-defense from everything else, so that we can test how far that moral right seems to extend. Just as a note, you keep referencing legality, legal obligations, and legal precedents. That's not the point of my hypotheticals. I'm asking if it would be morally justifiable to take certain actions in these scenarios, not legal. Also, I'm asking for reasoning as to why or why not. I would be very confident in betting that nothing similar to these scenarios have ever happened in real life; at least, I hope not! The goal is to isolate certain elements in a moral dilemma and test our reasoning and application of moral standards. That's important for my first question, as to the definition of reasonable force. I'm not asking for a legal definition of the term (so no lawyers required). I'm asking for what you meant, exactly, by the term when you used it originally. Looking back over it, I see that you were indeed speaking in terms of legality. So I've admittedly changed the subject: instead of asking if it's legal to take some action, let's see if it's moral to take some action. So, starting from the axiom that, all other things being equal, it's moral to act in self-defense when threatened by another, let me give my answers to my own hypotheticals: I don't think there's much question here. You reasonably believe that you are in imminent danger of your life, from this man who will directly kill you, and you have no other means of removing the threat to your life. So, you defend yourself by killing the man who is directly threatening you in order to save your life. This is harder. I would think, morally speaking, you would not be justified in pressing the button. Understandable, certainly. But an immoral action, because you don't know whether the man presents a threat, or if killing him is necessary. Without further information, I don't think it's moral to preemptively kill a man because he has the means and opportunity to kill, without knowing that he has the intent. I think it would be immoral to press the button in this case. Again, the man has the means and opportunity to kill you, but you have reason to believe he will help you. He could be lying, of course, but pressing the button "just in case," would, I think, be immoral (though of course, it would be entirely prudent to keep your finger on the button just in case!) This one I'm not sure I have an answer for. It would seem immoral to kill someone who you know is not going to kill you, but on the other hand, it seems completely unreasonable that you would therefore have to submit to him. I'd have to think about this one more. I think that it would be immoral to press the button. The man will die anyway, but not by your hand. It would seem immoral to directly kill an innocent person, even to save your own life. Again, it would be understandable if you did press the button, but I would argue immoral. I think this is clearly immoral if you press the button. There's the same consideration, in that you're directly killing an innocent, with the added factor that he would not otherwise be in danger. So you're valuing your own life more than his. Understandable, but immoral to press the button. I would say that it is immoral to press the button. Same considerations as the previous scenario, but you aren't even doing it to save your own life. I wouldn't say that they're completely unlike pregnancy/abortion. I added them in to isolate a different factor. In the first set, the man in the room was the real or possible direct threat, an agent responsible for his own actions. However, in the second one, the man in the room with you was a helpless victim of the circumstances, just as you were. He didn't place himself in the room, nor are his conscious or deliberate actions threatening you. However, as seen in the first and second hypothetical of the second set, his continued life is threatening you. I'm trying to isolate the concept of innocence here: the morality of killing someone who, while they may be threatening you, are doing so through no fault of their own.
Pro-choice is a legal opinion.  It means that it should be a legal right for a woman to choose based on her own ethics.  So, I'm willing to talk about my ethics and morals, but that has no influence on what I think should be legally permitted. I meant it as a legal term- self defense is a legal right.  It's a defense to support a not-guilty plea. I assumed he was calmly walking toward me, as in he doesn't stop until he gets to me.  If I am helpless and restrained, presumably by the person walking towards me with a knife, how else would you expect that to be perceived except a threat?  At what point would you decide it's definitely a threat and it's ok to press the button? Sure, it's reasonable to wait and see if he's a threat or not. You don't know how badly he'll hurt you, he could plan on torturing you.  Even if it's "just" a little stab, that's pain and suffering that I think you should ethically be allowed to defend yourself from.  Also I REALLY don't think there would be an scenario where I trusted a stranger who was going to hurt me with a knife to do it just enough that I could fully recover.  Even when kinksters do consensual knife play, it's edge play because it's risky and easy to make a mistake.  And they're not doing any stabbing. If he's going to die in either scenario, why is it unethical to save your own life?  You're doing it under duress, it's not like you're freely choosing it. Again, it's under duress.  If someone dies either way, someone's life is more valuable.  It's icky and I'm not sure what I would do, but I don't know that I would feel obligated to die to keep someone else alive.  For all I know he could be a pedophile or something right?  I know that I'm a good person with lots to offer the world.  It seems ethically neutral to me I think. Yes I would feel like it was unethical to press the button in this scenario. Well in your scenarios the stranger isn't threatening me at all.  They're an innocent bystander, whereas the fetus is an innocent threatening party.  To go back to the lifeguard example.  They're not intentionally threatening you by drowning.  There's nothing that makes them responsible for grabbing for you- it's a natural response in the panic of drowning.  That said, it's perfectly reasonable to save yourself even at the cost of their life.  They are certainly a threat, intentional or not.
I wonder if you would hold this position consistently? Imagine a scenario where you get on a plane. The person you are sitting beside is coughing, runny nose etc. You overhear him say he has the flu. You are trapped beside him. Can you kill him to avoid the risk the flu poses? Keep in mind that you literally have about a 1 in 5,000 chance of dying in childbirth in a DEVELOPED country. That is 0.02% (and this includes woman who are not exhibiting normal healthy pregnancies). https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maternal_death My chances of dying from the flu are 3,697 in 100, 000. That is 3.5%. My chances form dying of the flu are significantly higher than dying from child birth. http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/fastats/flu.htm And the chances of additional complications  and infections from the flu are even higher.
Well you can defend yourself from injury, not just death. What are the chances you'll be unable to go to work for 6 weeks + because of sitting next to someone with the flu?  What's the rate of transmission? With childbirth the chances are 100 percent that you will need at least 6 weeks to recover. Also it goes to reasonable force. Can I get off the plane? Can I ask for a face mask? Can I ask to switch seats? If someone strapped me to a chair and threatened to spray aerosolized flu in my face and the only way I could stop him was killing him, I think it could be morally justified.
I will concede that it usually takes time to recoup from pregnancy. Not necessarily 6 weeks though and definitely not 100% chance. I've given birth. After my second child I was up and walking half an hour after giving birth. But I think this is a moot point anyway. I think that the chances of getting the flu are very high if you are sitting right next to someone or even in the same plane as them since the air recirculates. So I don't see changing seats as a viable option. Obviously there is no getting off the plane once you are airborne so that won't work. It's an ethical exercise anyway. The point is, to imagine a situation that is analogous to pregnancy (and there aren't many real life ones, conjoined twins might come close) and see if you'd apply the same moral principals in those like circumstances. Personally, I don't think you would. I could be wrong. But I don't think killing another human being to exercise bodily autonomy is justifiable in most or any situation other than serious harm or risk of death.
The law and medical professionals say you get at least 6 weeks to recover from giving birth.  Every woman, every birth.  Additionally, you don't know until you're in the process of giving birth if you might need major abdominal surgery.  So really you're demanding that women accept the risk of major surgery that takes at least 8 weeks to recover from. It looks like transmission rate is somewhere between 30 and 60% right next to someone.  http://www.globalsecurity.org/security/ops/hsc-scen-3_flu-transmission.htm  Same link says you aren't at risk from recirculated air. And I think pregnancy meets this definition, or at least has enough of a potential to that I don't feel comfortable legally obligating women to endure the risk.
It sounds like you are saying that a person must risk their life and health in other situations (like the plane scenario) but for some reason (I still no nothing of) a mother does not have to. Do you see why you sound inconsistent. If pregnancy falls under this definition then so does my scenario (and many others).
Riding on a plane with a person with the flu is not as big of a risk to your health.  If you got on a plane with someone with bubonic plague, they'd find a way to get you off the plane so you weren't at risk.  Pregnancy carries a 100% chance of pain and suffering that is more severe than getting the flu.  It's not inconsistent, it speaks to degrees.  Plus, no one forces you to stay on a plane if you're uncomfortable with the person next to you.
I've already linked the statistics. Death and secondary infection are actually a lot more likely with the flu. And mathematically the flu is actually more of a serious health hazard. You may not want to believe it but that's the statistical reality. They sure would. You definitely wouldn't be allowed to jump off and risk the lives of the other passengers. Just to be clear, I am hearing that your argument is that if the risk to your health is small enough you can be forced to NOT kill the person posing the threat but, if it passes a threshold you can. Is this correct?
You're ignoring the transmission rate. That's after it is transmitted. Your also ignoring the stats about complications. No but you are absolutely allowed to get off before they leave the gate. And if you were trapped on a train they would let you get off. You can't get off the airplane because of how it effects other passengers, which is not an issue with pregnancy. Yes, some​ threats are so small that no force is watered.
The transmission rate is high when you are sitting right next to the person (almost certain). And the flu as other complications too. Irrelevant as the scenario clearly states they are already in the air ( a key point in making it analogous to pregnancy). No they wouldn't. But again irrelevant because we aren't talking about a train. You are trying to move goalposts here. That's the exact issue. The baby is another who will be effected. They will be killed. Dead. That's a big effect. Ok. And that was my point. That a normal pregnancy carries less of a risk than the flu so...get it now?

I agree with #1 and generally agree with #2. But I think your #3 argument is flawed. If you shift a being from non-existence to existence, can you shift it back as an infant? A child? An adult? (I'm prochoice, just debating your argument)
Yes--by dying or committing suicide.
I meant can a parent shift a child back to non-existence ethically as an infant, child, adult. So more like murder.
No, not without being charged with either murder or manslaughter and going to jail afterwards!
Exactly. So your argument doesn't really work when people believe life begins at conception.
Eliminate 2 & 3 but keep 1 & 4.  And remember killing in self-defense is justified if you reasonably believe you are in danger of dying or suffering serious bodily harm.  A pregnancy must present a significant risk to the woman before an analogy to self defense applies


Shocking to see 10% don't support abortion under any circumstances, even if the woman's life is at risk
I'm the kind of person who analyzes arguments in favor of the things I support to make sure they're sound. I found the forced organ donation argument compelling for awhile. However, after giving it more thought, I found that it seems to backfire. By backfire I mean it would actually be an argument that helps anti choicers.Before I give my reasons I'll give the forced donation argument for those who are unfamiliar. It says that we are not allowed to force a woman to donate an organ to her dying child. Therefore we cannot force a woman to carry a pregnancy to term to save the life of the fetus or zygote. Now I'll give my argument for why it backfires.  To be clear though I'll only be referring to consensual sex here.Imagine that you, of your own free will, decide to engage in an activity. In carrying out this activity you damage my liver to the point where I need an organ transplant. You are the only person capable of donating to me in time. It is true that no one can force you to do it, but if I die you would likely be charged with some form of negligence resulting in death, or manslaughter.Now consider pregnancy in light of my analogy above. A woman freely decides to engage in sex, and as a result she gets pregnant. No one can force her to carry to term, but terminating the pregnancy would be a crime. This is because, like my earlier example, the fetus needing her organs to survive is a direct result of a free action taken by the woman.The anti choicers could argue that the fetus needing your organs would be no different than if you accidentally damaged my liver. While you can't be forced to donate an organ you can still be charged with a crime if the person dies because you were directly responsible for them needing the organ(s) to survive.This is the reason why I decided it's a bad argument because using it actually gives ammunition to those who wish to criminalize abortion. Thoughts?
I prefer to avoid arguments that carry the presumption of fetal personhood.
Wouldn't that also make the father equally culpable? He also caused the fetus to exist in an environment where it needs someone else's organs to survive.
No legal system in the world would force you to donate your organ. That's a cruel and unusual punishment. If the initial action that caused the damage was a crime, rather than an accident, you could be charged for that, but you would never be forced to donate. For example, if you stabbed the person, you'd be charged, but if you ran into each other on the road while taking reasonable care, that's not a crime. Going back to the abortion analogy, sex is also not a crime.
Yea I can kidnap you and steal your kidneys but the courts won't make me give you one as retribution. The law is about punishing crime not exacting revenge that's why the victim doesn't get to pick the punishment they think most fitting.
And during an abortion you are killing the fetus which is the prolifers point.
No, you're disconnecting it from your body. That's what the abortion pill does, begins contractions similar to those in childbirth (until recently the same drug was used to induce labor in people past their due date). The fetus dies due to the poor development of its lungs. It's similar to refusing to donate an organ to someone, which isn't required under any legal system, even if it's your fault they need one.
Pretty sure the fetus dies in utero so it's not because of their underdeveloped lungs. That is besides the point though. Let's take a look at this idea of disconnecting. Would you apply this logic consistently? Imagine a baby and her father trapped, snowbound in his cabin. The father purposefully leaves that baby outside of his cabin home and as a result that baby dies from freezing to death. Would you say the father did not kill him? Would you say that her circulatory system was just not properly developed enough to deal with the winter's cold and that is why she died? What is the significant moral difference between an abortion and my scenario?
You'd be wrong. Unless you're talking about very late term abortions, where the fetus is given an injection to stop the heart. In most countries, this is only legal in situations where the fetus is malformed or the mother's life is at risk. I believe prosecutions for parental neglect are mostly wrong. Noone should ever be prosecuted for not doing something. However, the obligation placed on the father in your scenario is nowhere near as bad, as it doesn't increase his risk of death or injury like continuing a pregnancy does. A more similar situation would be a father choosing not to dive into a freezing lake to attempt to rescue a child that had fallen in.
The abortion pill is not always used for an abortion. There are other procedures such as D&C, D&E etc. which are also very common. That being said, I still don't believe the fetus dies because of underdeveloped lungs but rather being denied nutrients. He or she simply could not survive the whole process of evacuation. But this is moot point I think anyway. Well at least you are consistent. So how do you feel about parental responsibility law? Well, if I haven't already said it I am operating under the assumption that any prolife law would always make an exception for life/health of the mother. I think this analogy is to extreme going the other way. If we allow for the above exception mentioned I don't see how it can be viewed like this at all. Imagine in my scenario the father left his baby out in the cold because she seemed to think the baby might be developing a flu and he was afraid to catch it. Would that change the father's legal and moral obligation to his child? Obviously, I believe that the father has a legal and moral obligation to feed, shelter and hydrate his child (unless some extraordinary condition arises like your drowning in a freezing lake example).
This is the abortion law we have in my country. The wording of the law is, you can have an abortion if it's less harmful for your health than staying pregnant. In practice, this is abortion on demand, because there is no pregnancy in the world for which abortion is not the safest option.
Really? Which country is that? Do you have a source?
UK. https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abortion_in_the_United_Kingdom
Well there you have it. Thanks. I don't agree with this law because it seems to be saying we can kill others who pose any threat whatsoever and I don't think we would ever apply this consistently to all human beings.
Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abortion_in_the_United_Kingdom HelperBot v1.1 /r/HelperBot_ I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 43253
And one conjoined twin can NOT kill the other on demand and without apology in order to disconnect so..I think the point still stands.
Doctors routinely separate conjoined twins with the permission of the parents, even if it means the weaker one will die.
This only happens in an attempt to save one's life. It does not happen at the whimsy of the parents. Imagine a scenario where conjoined twins will detach naturally in 7-9 months. Doctors say with their help the separation would most likely happen successfully and safely. One twin suddenly develops a condition rendering her dependent on the other twin for 6 of those months. The healthy twin decides he does not want to wait for the 6-9 months. He wants to separate immediately despite the fact that the other twin will die as a result. I don't think anyone in their right mind would say he has a right to detach. I don't see how this scenario differs at all from abortion.
That's incorrect. Newborn twins are usually separated if one is weaker than the other to give the other a better quality of life. Of course he has the right to detach. Waiting is not going to be a risk free process, just like pregnancy isn't.
What? Wait. So are you saying that if someone else poses any risk whatsoever to you then you can kill them? I'm actually confused here.
You should not be forced to save someone's life if it involves risk to you, no.
That is not the question though. The question is can you always kill someone who poses any risk whatsoever?

Not my main point, but even if you give the liver you'd still be in legal trouble.. the law doesn't care. The difference is that the only two choices you have in life is to be alone forever or have sex (get married.. you can't have sex without marriage.. legally it could be annulled as it wasn't consummated..and even if so.. good luck finding a man who would go without sex.) So is this liver activity necessary for companionship? The real issue is the pro-lifer's view on sex..
It's a bad argument because it is needlessly convoluted and the analogy is suspect.  Not donating an organ can't be a crime because (1) crimes require an act of volition and (2) a parent's duty of care doesn't implicate mandatory organ donation.  Abortion on the other hand is act of volition and no duty of care for a fetus exists at all.  So the respective legal theories concerning both scenarios are unrelated The counter-argument's analogy is also fraught with distinctions.  One activity causes an injury, the other does not.  A fetus has no right to sue, but a person does.  Even if you give up your liver (and somehow survive without one) you can still be sued (and you probably still committed a crime), but a baby can't sue her mother for birthing her.
I got lost in the thread, my apologies. I do think that the twin should be allowed to decide to detach if he or she wants to. That is their medical right. They will face disgust and be ostracized from society by people like you, who see their withdrawal of consent as actively choosing murder, not to mention the potential for internalized shame at choosing to keep their body their own. I think that while the choice is a deeply sad one, it is one that the twins should be allowed to make for themselves. If only one twin wants separation, then they should be separated, knowing that their brother/sister will die as a result. Knowing that their twin died as a result of their decision would be pretty severe punishment l think?



Premium vinyl sticker sheet featuring 7 stickers inspired by the women's marches and Adventure Time (LSP in particular). 100% of proceeds go to IPPF. Get one here: https://www.etsy.com/listing/502256150/protest-time-4x6-sticker-sheet
Check this out. They're sneaking an anti-Planned Parenthood provision into the bill. Note that it isn't merely anti-abortion, which is also in the bill, but this part is specifically anti-Planned Parenthood, they wrote the definition so that no other healthcare organization matches it.http://www.cnn.com/2017/03/06/politics/house-republicans-obamacare-repeal-replace-text/index.html(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:(1) PROHIBITED   ENTITY.—The term ‘‘prohibited entity’’ means an entity, including its affiliates, subsidiaries, successors, and clinics—(A) that, as of the date of enactment of this Act—(i) is an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such Code;(ii) is an essential community provider described in section 156.235 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment of this Act), that is primarily engaged in family planning services, reproductive health, and related medical care; and(iii) provides for abortions, other than an abortion—(I) if the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest; or(II) in the case where a woman suffers from a physical disorder, physical injury, or physical illness that would, as certified by a physician, place the woman in danger of death unless an abortion is performed, including a life-endangering physical condition caused by or arising from the pregnancy itself; and(B) for which the total amount of Federal and State expenditures under the Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act in fiscal year 2014 made directly to the entity and to any affiliates, subsidiaries, successors, or clinics of the entity, or made to the entity and to any affiliates, subsidiaries, successors, or clinics of the entity as part of a nationwide health care provider network, exceeded $350,000,000.








I might be more inclined to listen/believe the "pro-life" activists if they were consistent across all issues of "life." Not just a fetuses life. A prisoner on death row life. An innocent woman bombed by an American drone life. The million+ lives that were liquidated in Iraq life. Eliminating tools that kill like guns in order to promote life, etc. Instead, what I see is privileged upper-middle class white people with 8+ children extolling the values of "life" when, if you poll them privately, would have no trouble with liquidating a million Iraqi children in the name of "freedom" They are hypocrites, and I hope abortion is legalized at every stage up to but excluding the day before birth. Either you're a consistent believer, or you're a stupid Christian HYPOCRITE and don't deserve a second of consideration. Period.
That's right!! Also I even support later term then birth abortion. What if you have a child and something is wrong with it? You should be able to terminate the child as long as you haven't left the hospital with the kid yet.
You're being sarcastic, but I have no trouble with euthanizing disabled infants. If I was a down syndrome child, I would wish to be euthanized as well. Without question.
For real? I was actually seriously discussing it with my co worker today after I made the comment.. it sounds terrible but from an evolutionary stand point it could make sense
Yes I give you emoji gold !🏆

I wonder what the ex would do if tests showed that the baby was suffering from genetic abnormalities?
Men should be able to have a say when the fetus can be grown in their body
Hey there, I hope this isnt against the rules even though ive read them, I may have missed something. But recently I have been seeing my pro-choice friends sharing this article http://springsbury.com/nurses-share-heartbreaking-stories-of-what-happens-to-babies-who-survive-abortions/My one question here is if this Nurse Kathleen Malloy is even a real person. (Using the full name because article is using her quote.) Ive done google searches on the name and the only relevant results that come up are to websites that use the quote. But nothing on her. Being a RN id think there'd be a picture of this 'hero' who is exposing the 'atrocities' of 'big abortion'. But who knows, I may just be garbage at research. Im not trying to dox or harass this person in anyway, Im just genuinely curious if this is a real person. Nothing on Snopes comes up either.  Big thanks if someone can point me in the right direction.
I think that's sort of the wrong angle to come at it from, since the nurse being real doesn't mean that she actually saw these things happen instead of making up the story or even having her name used without her knowledge. Showing someone who believes the story (for ideological reasons, not evidence based ones) that she probably doesn't exist won't change their mind. Instead, I'd ask for actual evidence of her claim being true. If they won't or can't provide evidence, but still maintain that it's a true story, then you can demonstrate the flaws of that by telling your own unsupported story about, say, churches holding pregnant women against their will in metal cages so they can't go out and get an abortion. Suddenly they'll be demanding things of you (cases, photos, etc) that they were just claiming didn't matter.

http://leg.mt.gov/bills/2017/sb0299/SB0282_1.pdf It's Senate Bill 282 (SB282), which I couldn't find in any of the articles about it. I have problems with a lot of the new language, like its tendency to say "unborn person."  But looking past the precedent its choice of words sets, here is what it does: Make abortions illegal after 24 weeks in Montana.  I'm not going to fight on that one.  24 weeks is the federal limit on how early an abortion can be illegal, and Montana wants to be a conservative state.  Take it up with the federal government. Make it so that after 24 weeks a parent and medical team can't decide to withdraw care in the event of a preterm birth.  This one I'm also kind of okay with.  If you came in to labor and delivery and delivered at 32 weeks, you could not ask us to withdraw care.  Our pediatricians would take care of the preterm baby.  No objection. But wait, it also redefines "viable" as after 24 weeks, editing out the old definition of "able to survive outside of the [uterus]."  That means that it requires doctors to provide futile care for neonates born after 24 weeks with conditions incompatible with life, like renal agenesis. It defines gestational age as the time elapsed since the last menstrual period.  This is a necessary line, because you need to differentiate gestational age from fertilization age, the time elapsed since fertilization.  In the Ideal Woman, this is two weeks.  Because many people have a different time between LMP and ovulation, if our first ultrasound shows a very different size of the embryo or fetus, we redate -- we generate a new date based on the estimated time since fertilization based on size, and then add two weeks because gestational age based on LMPs is standard. It states that, if a pregnant person after viability (which, remember, is now 24 weeks after your last menstrual period, regardless of how your fetus is) has a condition that poses an "immediate, serious risk of death or irreversible impairment of a major bodily function," the doctor shall induce delivery or deliver by cesarean.  I can't have a law that says I shall do a procedure -- only that I shall offer a procedure. For each of those, you might say, "well, if it ever went to trial the courts would use common sense."  Maybe.  But put yourself in the physician's shoes.  It wouldn't be weird to have a situation that bridged some of these details.  Why should you have this risk on your mind? The language of the law seems designed to evoke a botched abortion at 25 weeks resulting in a live-born neonate and a heartless abortionist leaving it to die in a steel pan somewhere.  Except for one D.C. madman, that doesn't happen.  Especially not in Montana, where there are no abortion providers after 24 weeks. So here's how this law could affect you if you (or your patient) were pregnant: Prior to 24 weeks with a regular menstrual/ovulatory cycle: no effect. Prior to 24 weeks but your period is irregular: if your dating had to be corrected, this law contains no mechanism to allow for your new dating to be used. After 24 weeks with a devastating fetal anomaly: you cannot choose to provide comfort care only. After 24 weeks with a health condition and your doctor recommends preterm delivery at this time but you wish to decline preterm delivery due to the risks of extreme prematurity, i.e., you would rather risk death or permanent disability to get your baby one more week of gestation: there's no mechanism here by which a doctor can compel you to submit to induction or cesarean, but your doctor would be at risk of getting sued if something bad happened, because they did not induce you when this law says that they should. After 24 weeks, desiring a termination: doesn't matter, Montana doesn't have providers for after 24 weeks anyway.
I hope Governor Steve Bullock vetoes this bill.

Basically, this one pro-lifer has told me (on another website) that she believes that the reason that abortion is such a heated issue in the U.S. is because the U.S.'s abortion laws are extreme in comparison to most European countries. Specifically, she told me that if the U.S.'s abortion laws were more similar to Europe's abortion laws--at least in regards to the approximate 12 week limit for elective abortions--the abortion issue would be much less controversial here in the U.S. because, in her opinion, people have much more sympathy for older fetuses than for embryos and younger fetuses.Anyway, do you agree with this pro-lifer's statement in regards to this or not?Any thoughts on this?
No. The fundamental issue for right-to-lifers is that they simply don't want women to have any control of their fertility. There has even been a resurgence in talk from Republican lawmakers to target contraception after they overturn Roe v Wade. It's nothing to do with sympathy for the "babies". They don't actually give a shit about the wellbeing of babies born into poverty. They don't give a shit about providing universal healthcare for poor women who may suffer a complicated pregnancy due to preventable conditions which should be managed early in the pregnancy.
"The fundamental issue for right-to-lifers is that they simply don't want women to have any control of their fertility." Exactly.  Are these so-called "pro-lifers" going to admit that publicly?  I seriously doubt it. But it's obvious to me that they really don't like women being able to reject "their traditional role" (marriage, motherhood, and nothing else) by using contraception to prevent pregnancy.   So I think they will do whatever they can to restrict women's access to it.  That includes making it much more expensive for women to buy and/or refusing to sell it at all. Without access, there is no choice.  And choice is precisely what ultra-right "pro-lifers" do not want women to have, no matter how many times they claim otherwise.
I have a really rare condition that makes it really difficult for me to have children. It's actually really likely that childbirth would kill me. And I was talking to someone about that and they said that if that happened I made the choice to have sex and it should be an honor to die for my unborn child. Like what the fuck? My aunt died in childbirth. It's not an honor. It's a tragedy.
"...it should be an honor to die for my unborn child." YIKES.  Talk about religious extremism and misogyny, although the person who said that would probably deny being a misogynist as well. You're absolutely right, it is a tragedy when a woman dies in childbirth, and that can still happen sometimes, even in the 21st century.  Pregnancy still poses many significant health risks for women, which is why the decision of whether or not to continue it must ALWAYS remain with the woman who is pregnant.
Yeah. It's absolutely awful. Like I don't understand the hate towards women when it comes to sex. No one tells men not to have sex. It's expected that men do have sex. But a woman gets pregnant and "you chose to have sex now have this child you don't want because I don't believe in abortion" or "you should have kept your legs closed." although my personal favorite is "why did you have sex if you didn't want a baby"
Yep, I've read the "if you don't want a baby, don't have sex" line from anti-choice extremists so many times over the years, and I've been a pro-choice participant on various forums for quite a long time.  It is basically saying that women who don't choose to have children ever, or who are done having kids, should be forced into lifetime celibacy, rather than it being a choice for women.  That's how I read it anyway. As for the reasons why there's such hate towards women, I stopped trying to figure that out ages ago.  For me, the "why's" don't matter anymore.  Women being able to keep our reproductive rights is what matters.
That's how I read it too. And if you don't ever want kids you can't get married because marriages have to be consummated. But I honestly don't think they understand the concept of a woman who does not want children. Because they believe that's a woman's purpose in life.
All contraception--even Vasalgel and condoms?
http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2017/01/make-birth-control-expensive-again
The answer to that question is clear from the context, read the sentence before the one you selected.
No.  Wherever we draw the line, the other side pushes it to the right.
Well not if the line was drawn at fertilization :). On a more serious note, I don't think I agree. I think if the line was drawn at 12 weeks (like in most parts of the world) then most people would accept it. Partially because most people are moved by emotion and after 12 weeks a fetus/preborn child looks very much like a more developed human beings in a more obvious way. If we made it 8 weeks then there would be even more acceptance from those who use brainwaves as there line.
Y'know, I'm not sure that it would.  We (the left) have to fight for contraception, sex ed, and vibrators.  I think that the radical Christian theocrats among us would not choose to switch to feeding the poor, healing the sick, and welcoming strangers into their homes. I'm dubious about this as well.  There have been a lot of pushes for 20 week bans on "fetal pain" grounds (which, for the record, is not supported in scientific literature).  In each case, the groups behind it are actually really in favor of making abortion illegal; they've just given up on doing it all at once and are trying to do it incrementally. But you make a slightly different argument -- that the hard-core theocrats wouldn't stop, sure, but they'd lose their popular support.  Now it becomes a debate about human nature, and I fall on the side that the evidence doesn't really matter for what people choose to decide, generally speaking.
92 percent of abortions happen before 13 weeks already. It doesn't matter what we do, they still want to take away our reproductive freedom
Well then why rally against making this the legal precedent? Most of the rest of the world restricts abortion already. In most of Europe it is banned after 12 weeks (with exceptions like life of the mother).
Im not saying I am rallying against it. I am saying that it doesn't matter to the United States pro life movement. Most of them want to take abortion away completely. I have never heard a pro life person say "ban abortions after 12 weeks." I hear "ban all abortions"
"Most of them want to take abortion away completely." Exactly, but the anti-choice extremists will, more often than not, try and make themselves look better by trying to sell the line that "it's about the babies," which I think is complete nonsense. IMO what they truly can't stand is women rejecting motherhood by using contraception to prevent unwanted pregnancy.  To these backward bozos, motherhood is a woman's ONLY "real purpose," and they don't want women having the resources (ie birth control) to reject it.
It's not about the babies. It's never been about the babies. They don't want women to have choices. They don't put any responsibility on men. A woman gets pregnant and wants an abortion "she should have kept her legs closed" or she shouldn't have "chosen to have sex." No mention of the fact that it isn't possible to get pregnant by yourself. It's always women who have to bear the responsibility. And if you point that out they say "oh the guy will have to pay child support." Like that makes up for the woman having to carry a child to term that she potentially does not want. Or the permanent changes to her body causes by pregnancy.
"It's not about the babies. It's never been about the babies. They don't want women to have choices." Exactly.  I seriously doubt the anti-choice extremists -- including the politicians -- will ever admit that publicly.  But I have no doubt whatsoever that it's really about denying women choices when it comes to sex and reproduction.  As you said, they can't or won't understand the idea of a woman's choosing never to have children, because to them, motherhood is a woman's ONLY purpose in life.  That and being an unpaid cook and maid as well.
I think it's more typical to say, ban abortion except in cases of life/health.  And a smaller group also agree with the rape exception.
The date issues ignores the fact that governments in the US routinely pass laws to obstruct access to abortion that makes the 12 week limit way too early to be feasible in reality. Especially without single payer health care that also adds to road blocks.
The parent mentioned Single Payer. Many people, including non-native speakers, may be unfamiliar with this word. Here is the definition(In beta, be kind): In health care, a system that collects all medical fees for a pool of people and pays their doctors from a single government source. The pool of people may be relatively small (e.g., only persons over 65 years of age), or universal (every person in a given jurisdiction). [View More] See also: ^Obstruct | ^Feasible | ^Pool | ^Universal Note: The parent poster  (wanked_in_space or Futurist110) can delete this ^post | ^FAQ
Apparently indirectly killing babies is a-ok, institutionalized racism isn't real, and caring about the lives of black babies would distract from the all important fetuses. I am disgusted and needed to vent.
That's odd, because at least 1 out of 5 arguments I've had will feature the fact that black and Hispanic women make up a disproportionate percentage of abortion recipients. Which, of course, goes to show that proponents of choice are racists bent on targeting minority babies! Or maybe, it's because women of color face more of a battle to access reliable, affordable birth control. Just maybe. Sorry, it's late and I'm grumpy.
I honestly think they are incapable of any real logic. It's impossible to get them to be consistent across arguments.
No. It's because poor women, who are more likely to not be white, face more of a battle to access reliable, affordable birth control. Just maybe.
It's got nothing to do with racism. The link is because black people are more likely to be poor and poor people are more likely to need abortions. How is this complicated?
Hmmm, this is unrelated to the rate of abortions in the Black community.  It's about the infant mortality rates.  So babies dying after they're born.  Would you like to see the article?
Then why is it on /r/prolife and /r/prochoice? It's still because they're poor rather than black.
Nope, they found that income inequality only explained 10% of the difference. Because conservatives are a racist bunch and at the same time claim to care about babies.  It was new to me, I thought a group who cared about babies would want to do the things actually in their power to keep babies alive.  (For example, vote for less racist politicians instead of trying to get a popular, established law changed.)  Apparently staying racist is more important than babies lives.  That's my take away, anyway.
It's bullshit ok. This sort of racism doesn't exist. Poor areas have worse education and worse hospitals, nothing to do with racist politicians. Which law kills black baby's exclusively?
I'm going to assume you're a troll and stop wasting my time.
I'm not a troll. You just don't have answers for my arguments. Keep living in fantasy world, our opinions don't help people. Acting on the facts does help people. I must question where your morals really lie.
Here are the facts.  Read and get back to me https://www.thenation.com/article/whats-killing-americas-black-infants/
Which 'facts' would you like to talk about?
-﻿ Each year in the United States, more than 23,000 infants die before reaching their first birthday. -﻿ Though the mortality rate varies widely by state and county, the average in the United States is higher than in the rest of the world’s wealthy countries, worse than in Poland and Slovakia. ﻿ White, educated American women lose their infants at rates similar to mothers in America’s peer countries. Most of the burden of the higher mortality rate here is borne by poorer, less-educated families, particularly those headed by unmarried or black women. ﻿ Across the United States, black infants die at a rate that’s more than twice as high as that of white infants. ﻿ Black women who received prenatal care starting in the first trimester were still losing children at higher rates than white women who never saw a doctor during their pregnancies. ﻿ Other researchers suggested that poverty and lack of education were to blame, as black women consistently experience higher poverty levels. Those factors matter, but they don’t account for the full racial gap. After evaluating 46 different factors, alone and in combination—including smoking, employment status, and education—the authors of one 1997 study could account for less than 10 percent of the variation in birth weight between black and white babies. Another study found that even black women with advanced degrees—doctors, lawyers, MBAs—were more likely to lose infants than white women who hadn’t graduated from high school. ﻿ The research suggests that what happens outside a woman’s body—not just during the nine months of pregnancy—can profoundly affect the biology within. One study found that black women living in poorer neighborhoods were more likely to have low-birth-weight infants regardless of their own socioeconomic status. More segregated cities have greater black/white infant-mortality disparities; women whose babies are born severely underweight are more likely to report experiences of discrimination. ﻿ Health experts now think that stress throughout the span of a woman’s life can prompt biological changes that affect the health of her future children. ﻿ Researchers now link much of that higher stress burden to racial discrimination. ﻿ Personally mediated experiences include things like being treated differently at a doctor’s office than white patients; black women who report these kinds of experiences have been found more likely to have low-birth-weight babies. Institutional discrimination—which refers to the ways in which unequal treatment has been baked into our social, economic, and political systems—impacts individual health too. ﻿ In 2013, Krieger and her colleagues compared infant deaths in states with and without Jim Crow laws; they found that black infant deaths were significantly higher in Jim Crow states, but that after the passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, the gap shrank and, by 1970, had disappeared (although the overall black/white gap persisted). ﻿ The state’s Republican leadership has only made things more difficult by cutting social support programs like food stamps. Last year, the state stripped hundreds of thousands of dollars in funding from Milwaukee’s home-visiting program. Wisconsin Republicans have also fought efforts to increase the minimum wage, which could have a positive effect on the infant-mortality rate. A study released last year found that a $1 increase in the minimum wage in various states between 1980 and 2011 corresponded with a 1 to 2 percent decrease in low birth weight and a 4 percent decline in deaths of infants between 1 month and 1 year.

You know, I'm sure this will be ill-received by you, but looking at that post, the comments, and your post here, you are guilty of the same lack of logic and intellectual honesty that you perceive in pro-life advocates. If you could diagram a flow chart of your line of reasoning in this issue, and why you made the post that you did in the subreddit you did, what would it look like? What was the point that you were trying to illustrate? Allow me to state unequivocally that it is an absolute tragedy whenever a child dies. My heart truly does go out to any parent who suffers the loss of a child, and I mourn for those deaths. Is that why you posted this article in the prolife subreddit? To express sadness, and be joined by others in that sadness? No. You did it to criticize and (hopefully) demonstrate the entire prolife position is actually hypocritical. You then react angrily and emotionally when, shockingly, members of that community defend their focus on abortion and the unborn. Your rhetoric that anything less than a full-throated endorsements of the conclusions of institutional racism from statistical analysis about societal ills and problems, extrapolated from a variety of sources and methods and with a variety of variables is full-blown racism is hysterical, dishonest, and does not promote an open or honest dialogue. The effects, causes, extent, and best solutions of racism is something that good people of good intent can have honest disagreements on, without one side or the other being evil racists. You're also guilty of a very dishonest tactic: defining the intent of the pro-life movement by their name, which is in reality a marketing term generated in response to the pro-choice group's own marketing label. In reality, these two groups came into being and are debating one issue: abortion. It would be better for both to call themselves and be referred to as pro-abortion and anti-abortion. However, prolife and prochoice are the popular terms, and that's what we have to deal with. It's juvenile and sophomoric to construct an argument by claiming that, if we call ourselves prolife, we have to have an equal devotion to a list of causes that could be marketed under the same term, and if we don't then we're hypocrites, therefore our position fails. That argument is absurd on the face of it. However, what if we grant it? Let's assume that every single prolife advocate is a hypocrite if they don't devote an equal amount of time to other "prolife" issues as abortion. Let's go further. Let's say that they're all racists, bigots, evil hypocrites of the lowest sort, who are only interested in the arguments that they put forward because they further their secret agenda of persecuting women and minorities, or any other sinister agenda you care to ascribe them. You still haven't actually addressed the arguments. Hypocrites can be right, as can terrible people. I may be a terrible person, but if you don't address the actual arguments, then you're not addressing anything. Now, let me go out on a dangerous limb here and submit for consideration that, perhaps, most prolife advocates are actually upset at the death of children, whether before or after birth. Ludicrous at first glance, I know, but let's grant it for just one moment. Could a person reasonably spend more time and energy on addressing the issue of abortion, and less time on addressing the infant mortality rate? Let's look at just a few facts. The article you posted stated that every year, approximately 23,000 babies die before their first year of life. That is truly terrible; I do not say that lightly. I meant what I said at the beginning of this. Every child's death is tragic. Now let's consider the number of abortions in a year. According to the Guttmacher Institute, there were approximately 926,200 induced abortions in the United States. If someone has reached the conclusion that abortion ends the life of a living, human child with the right to life, which of these things would attract greater attention? Further, in general, which issue would seem more pressing? The deliberate and direct ending of innocent life, or indirect, not immediately attributable deaths that have a variety of causes, contributing factors, and possible solutions that may help or harm in various ways?
No, I posted it here because I hoped that people in r/prolife would be particularly open to hearing about something that's killing infants.  It seemed like an audience that would be especially sensitive to this tragedy.  It also seemed like an audience with a lot of room for growth since it does not appear that pro-life people have many qualms about voting for racist politicians. I'm not saying pro-life people need to dedicate themselves to all pro-life issues- I'm not asking them to be against war or the death penalty, I'm not even asking them to be in favor of welfare.  I'm just asking for them to be consistently opposed to the death of fetuses/babies. I was under the impression that pro-life people care about infants.  I'm certain that most of them voted for Trump.  This article was new to me, I presumed new to most of the people here, and it gave me hope that there might be a way for prolife people to become allies and push back against racist politicians for the sake of babies.  It seems like common sense to me.  If my action A to save group X actually indirectly harmed group X, I would try to come up with another plan or a way to mitigate the harm I was causing.  Assuming I actually cared about group X.  I'm not saying fight racism in all it's forms, but for goodness sake, don't contribute to the problem!
You're not being honest here. You posted an article there, which generated a small amount of earnest discussion of the information contained inside of it by people who did not immediately recognize your agenda. The main discussion took place in your antagonistic comment that you posted along with the article: "What is the pro-life movement doing to push back against racism?" After a discussion there, you came back to this board and vented your disgust and outrage. Your tactics and intent were obvious. The question was a challenge. What are you doing about this problem prolifers, because if you're not doing enough, you're hypocritical! It just makes no logical sense, the leaps that you're making. If you were seriously just posting the article to raise awareness of how poverty or institutional racism affects infant mortality rates, you wouldn't have issued the challenge in your question. In any case, the only reason you had to post that article in a sub dedicated to antiabortion discussions was to challenge that sub. You had an agenda to push, which is fine of course, but own up to it. Even in this comment, you're being so unreasonable. "I'm certain that most of them voted for Trump." "Assuming I actually cared about group X." "...don't contribute to the problem!" Leaps of logic and argumentation in bad faith.
Do you dispute that most prolife people voted for Trump? I don't understand what you think is unreasonable. As far as my question being a challenge, I think the article itself is a challenge for all Americans. Are we OK with racism and the infant deaths it causes or not? If not, what are we going to do to change our society? I do think that any prolife person who reads that article and doesn't feel motivated to address racism as part of their "save the babies" moral code is a hypocrite, yes. I also think that people who tend to be prolife tend to be culpable for more of the institutionalized racism that persists in the US, so I think they should especially feel motivated to address it. I live in a red state. My representatives don't care what I have to say. If conservative Christians suddenly decided to oppose racism, the politicians would listen and change, I think.
-I think it's likely that most prolife people voted for Trump. My issue with your use of that point in constructing an argument is twofold. 1, you've done no research or cited any sources to back up that claim; it's an assumption that reveals more about you than about reality. 2, you're making some kind of point by claiming that association exists. You don't make it directly or explicitly, but given the context of your post and other comments, it's an implicit accusation that anyone who voted for Trump is _____ (evil, hypocritical, hostile to or hateful of poor, minorities, etc, any other negative conclusion that you'd like to fill in the blank with). This is just close-minded political rhetoric. That kind of argumentation, due to the 2 issues with it that I've raised, has no place in reasoned argumentation and fact-finding. Now, I have to say this, because every time I do anything less than hate and denounce Trump, I'm accused of that most heinous of crimes, being a Trump supporter. I'll just state for the record that I did not vote for Trump, I think he's damaging to this country, his policies and actions as president are disastrous, I cannot stand his economic, trade, or immigration policies... however, I unabashedly applaud his prolife policies and stances. I do this while personally believing that he is not actually prolife, but merely using that issue to gain support. -Yes, that article is a challenge for us, and we all should be doing what we can to lower infant mortality rates. However, an intelligent, good-intentioned person can reasonably disagree with the conclusions of you or the article, without being a terrible racist and hypocrite. If they grant the conclusions, then they can disagree with the best course of action to address it without being a terrible racist and hypocrite. If they agree with your conclusions and your suggested course of action, they can still decide that abortion is a far more pressing issue without being a terrible racist and hypocrite. Finally, even if every single person in the prolife person was a terrible racist and hypocrite, that does nothing to invalidate the actual arguments for the prolife position. There's no logical chain of arguments that I can make to connect your point to your conclusion that doesn't fail. You're not providing any evidence of your claims here. Your argumentation is to present some statistics and a conclusion from those statistics, and then immediately denounce anyone as a racist and hypocrite who does not fully endorse your interpretation of the cause of those statistics, and the best solution. This all goes back to the point I keep making: it is reasonable to have an honest disagreement on the cause and solution. -"I also think that people who tend to be prolife tend to be culpable for more of the institutionalized racism that persists in the US, so I think they should especially feel motivated to address it." This is merely your own prejudice and bias against prolife people, so unless and until you substantiate it with facts, it has no place in reasoned argumentation and debate centered around good intention and honesty. -"My representatives don't care what I have to say." I think that you belong to a pretty select group of people who can say that: Americans. :)
I've cited sources elsewhere in the thread.  Would you like me to show you the links as well? What makes you say that?  It's a fact that he's the most explicitly racist candidate in a long time.  It's also a fact that republicans in general have a problem with racism.  Not that democrats are blameless, but it's not a "both sides are equal" situation.  I personally believe that anyone who could stomach a vote for Trump must be a little bit racist at least, but that is beside the point.  At the very least, they accepted his racism, which, as we've seen, kills infants (indirectly). I didn't suggest a course of action, I was asking what the prolife response would be.  I have yet to hear anything.  Don't you think it's telling that so many people want to argue about if they're racist or not but not a single one has an idea about what to do to push back against this problem?  It says something about priorities, I believe. Sure.  Show me where that has happened.  No one has pointed out any issues with the studies.  They've said racism doesn't exist, they've said this problem is unrelated to abortion.  Do you agree that racism exists?  Do you take issue with the studies cited in the article I posted?  That would be a disagreement about the cause.  And like I said, no one has offered any solution except, I suppose, my idea that republicans pressure their politicians to be less racist.  But, I'm happy to talk about other ideas or approaches.  That discussion has not happened.  Again, I question people's priorities. Ok, let me ask you some questions to help you here.  Why are you pro-life?  What is the importance of making abortion illegal, in your opinion? Fact: Trump supporters are more racist than other groups. Fact: White Christians supported Trump by a huge margin. Fact: Christians make up the majority of the pro-life movement. Sources posted previously, happy to post again if needed. Maybe Republican politicians aren't listening to anyone, but in that case, why do they keep getting elected?  If Republicans really did take issue with racism, why wouldn't an anti-racist candidate have stood up to Trump and won?
Here's a sneak peek of /r/prolife using the top posts of the year! #1: How it feels being pro-life | 59 comments#2: BREAKING: Trump to end Obama funding of foreign abortions by Sunday, claims report | 10 comments#3: Bill Banning Abortion From Baby's First Heartbeat Introduced in Congress: "If a Heartbeat is Detected, a Baby is Protected" | 27 comments I'm a bot, beep boop | Downvote to remove | Contact ^^me | ^^Info | ^^Opt-out

Please delete this. I don't want anyone bridging, I just wanted to vent.

My question is why does it matter how the babies in the pictures died? I think the point would be to show what a fetus/preborn child looks like after they are killed or dead. Of course they use fetuses that are at a later stage of development. Although I think I seen one that was around 9-12 weeks (the highest rate of abortions take place during this time I believe).
66% are within the first 8 weeks (Source)  I understand what their point is, and you're right it may not matter what the cause was. Either way it was something that was probably really bad in someone's life. A real person somewhere who's real pain is being put up on display, in public, to prove a political point.
From your source, I also wonder, do you hold this view consistently or because you do not value the fetus as morally equal to every other human being? For example, if pictures of animal brutality were used to protest animal abuse would you object? Or recently a picture of a dead Syrian boy on a beach was displayed all over the media to protest mistreatment of refugees, were you against it's use?
yes but 66 percent of  were before 8 weeks. the 13 weeks encapsulates that 66 percent. To view the fetus as morally equal I would have to have a reason to. With humans that have been born you can easily make the case that they are conscious. The reason we don't care how we treat machines and computers is because they are not. I realize you can never prove consciousness fully one way or another in any case, but one can be reasonable about it. For the last couple of cases, with animals no. Animals do not have the awareness to care if people use their images or images of their loved ones to prove political points. The dead Syrian boy, while I do not object to its existence, its use to make a political point is wrong. Not only is it using an image that has caused real people serious pain, but it only speaks to emotion, not logic. Obviously I have lines on this, I'm not against offending people in most cases. These just cross the line for me.
I don't agree with this. There are many animals that are conscious and yet we do not extend them the same rights as we do infants for example who haven't even yet reached there level of awareness. Also, I still am not quite sure what is reasoning for objecting to the images? You say using animal imagery is fine because the animals are not affected but using the Syrian boy is not but, he also can not be harmed as he is dead. This is a little confusing. Surely animal lovers everywhere would say that they were caused great pain by there animal being abused. I also think quite the opposite. It speaks to reason and logic. It forces one to examine the cognitive dissonance they are experiencing and try to rationalize the nonsense.
What I'm saying is his family can be harmed by it. As far as the animal argument goes you may very well be right. Its hard for us to really know if an animal is sentient or if it is more akin to running a computer program. Depending on the animal, they usually lack lobes of the brain that we think may be essential for self actualization. The truth is we don't know that much about the brain and what specifically makes us conscious sentient beings, beyond the fact that we do need a functioning brain. I'm certainly not arguing that abusing animals is ok. A birthed living animal does have a functioning brain (though we don't know to what extent), as does a human. A 9 week old fetus however does not. So there is a clear distinction between these cases. You might be right in some cases to as far as how the image actually effects individuals. I will admit that for someone like me an image like that does encourage me towards a logical analysis of the situation. I'm not a good example though because nearly everything does that to me. It seems to me like most people respond emotionally. Most people see the image and just think: oh how horrifying we have to do something. They don't put it into perspective, like by realizing that thousands of children die everyday for various reasons. I also think it makes them less likely to accept, or even consider, an idea that would not involve helping that group of people, even though that could potentially be the most logical one.


Hello r/prochoice, I am seeking to find a straight up earnest and intellectually honest debate regarding abortion and would LOVE your help. It seems like every Youtube debate is titled somewhere along the lines of "Pro-lifer Gets Fucking Destroyed" or "Watch Murderous Pro-choice Advocate Go Down in Flames" and it's just plain irritating.I am just looking for a well reasoned, non/less rhetorically laden conversation between two sides that attempts to use reason and integrity in fleshing out the moral complexities of each side. What have you got for me?
I hope you see this /u/Howard_the_Dolphin. I am right there with you; I cannot stand Youtube videos on any topic with a title along the lines of "Moron person who thinks X verbally suplexed and rekt by awesome genius who thinks what I think!!!!1" Here's a link to a good debate: https://youtu.be/wOlFEJbRIeo?t=8s. It's between Trent Horn, a pro-life advocate, and Professor Cecili Chadwick, a professor of women's studies at California State University San Marcos. The debate topic was Should Abortion Remain Legal? It's lengthy, but it's a structured debate between two intelligent and informed people and that is held to academic standards and decorum.
Thank you, everyone for your input and sources. I look forward to watching/reading each of them!
There is no new debate to be had. The "pro life" side believes most or all abortions are murder, thus the women having them are murderers, as are their doctors. There's a little variation in belief surrounding any possible exceptions (danger to health of mother, victims of rape, health of foetus), and that's about it. They think they're fighting against legalized murder. There's no room for discussion or compromise. Some believe in using contraceptives and others don't, but that's a fringe issue in the "pro life" camp. Meanwhile the pro-choice side leaves the decision up to women and their healthcare providers, because pregnancy is a medical condition. There's willingness to compromise about a cut-off for the proceedure based on gestational age, except in cases of medically necessary abortions or rape.  The "pro life" movement has made it clear that they believe life begins at conception, and are not interested in compromising on gestational age. What room for discussion or compromise do you imagine exists between the two?  I've yet to see it, ever. The ideologies seem to be at complete odds.
I apologize for not being clearer. I am not looking to debate someone but for either a debate posted to YouTube or a transcript of such a debate
Ah. Sorry. I didn't understand.
I've actually have some surprising results by pushing the explanation of bodily autonomy. Some people will try a bullshit "okay so I can shoot a toddler in the face?" Come back but some will actually stop and really consider what it means and take the time to consider their opinions so I always just talk about bodily autonomy. Bodily autonomy is my reason for being pro-choice and how I've convinced a surprising number of people both in person and over the internet to re-evaluate their opinion on the matter so I find that to be the best way to handle a reasonable debate about abortion.
Bodily autonomy is certainly my reason as well. It's the reason I'm not tetraplegic or dead. A woman needs to be able to listen to her body and make decisions. I have a rare expression of an otherwise common genetic disorder. That rare expression makes it very dangerous for me to carry a pregnancy into the 2nd and 3rd trimester. (It is a cavernous malformation inside of my spinal cord, between C-3 and C-4) But I wasn't diagnosed with this lifelong disorder until a year after having an abortion (at ~6-7 weeks.) I had the abortion because something felt really wrong. Every fiber of my being was telling me something was wrong. That's how I found out I was pregnant so early - I don't think I had even missed my period, but I went to the doctor because I felt awful. Had I continued the pregnancy, there's a high liklihood I would be tetraplegic or dead now. But I'm not... because I was allowed to listen to my body and have an abortion. No doctor could have known. No politician for sure. Just me. I'm the only one who knew, or could have known, that something just wasn't right. Turns out even that short period of pregnancy caused a small amount of permanent damage to my spinal cord. That's how I was eventually diagnosed. Now I'm a bit disabled, but I still have control of all my parts. I do have pain, neurospasticity, and heavy duty meds that control both.  Had it not taken 2 weeks and 2 separate appointments to get the abortion pill, I might not have that entirely life altering damage. However, even sharing my experience far and wide, I've yet to change a single mind. I do live in Texas, so that doesn't help. Most just say they support abortion when medically necessary, and completely skip the part where no one knew it was medically necessary. When I press that point, they say it's too unique of a situation to weigh it against the countless innocent lives being lost to abortion. Basically, my one life just doesn't stack up. One person suggested to me that the government should force me to be "responsible" and carry out any future pregnancy, but compensate me or my family in the event of my death or further disability. And responsible? Like they don't understand that all contraceptives have failure rates, and most are pretty high.
Wow. They call this being pro-life. Your experience confirms some of my darker suspicions about the pro-life movement. It shows exactly how much that person cared about the lives of women.  Shows exactly how willing people can be to ignore or discount the disparate realities of pregnancy.  (Of course all the while naively imagining that a healthy/viable baby is guaranteed after this noble sacrifice). Shows exactly how far they want the government to be able to reach, and that women are "supposed" to consider themselves incubators first and should be legally sanctioned for not doing so. What is your life's purpose? Ask the government, they will compensate your family when you die. /s Have you been told that being paralyzed would be an inconvenience? This makes me feel so cynical.
Me too! Lol. Yup. How do you even respond to that kind of twisted morality?
If the toddler is holding a loaded gun and preparing to shoot you with it? Sure. Self-defense, just like abortion.
This seems to be one of the most misunderstood and interesting topics within the conversation
you might enjoy this… it's not a debate, it's an essay. http://lawjournal.rutgers.edu/sites/lawjournal.rutgers.edu/files/issues/v39/2/03LittleVol39.2.r_2.pdf
...and it went way worse than expected.I say "conversation", but it was via IM. I messaged a woman asking her what she thought of a story recently posted on here about a man who lost his wife in childbirth because they chose not to have an abortion despite knowing how dangerous her condition was (a choice which was very much influenced by aggressive protesters at planned parenthood pushing the idea that abortion is always murder).  I simply asked the woman whether after reading that story she still felt that it is "always" murder.She wouldn't even read it, at all. She simply accused me of trying to "swindle" her, refused to even have a calm conversation about it, and started saying I was "probably one of those baby killers too". She completely flipped on me, and I was as absolutely polite the entire time. I never even told her my own beliefs, I simply asked her a question.I'm just very frustrated that people like her are running around loudly proclaiming anyone who believes in pro choice or even supports planned parenthood is a "baby killer". It's just nothing but negativity and violence with a complete inability to even try and talk things out. If she wants to convince people of her point of view, I would gladly chat with her, but instead she chooses to spam Facebook with proclamations in both her comments and posts of "DEFUND PLANNED PARENTHOOD" and "ABORTION IS MURDER". She even said, and I quote, "Why are you trying to change my way of thinking so I will supporting ripping babies legs and arms and crushing their skull" "This is how they do abortions. Watch silent scream"I'm just infuriated. She puts no thought into the things she's spewing, she just repeats what others have told her. Argh.Sorry, I'm just ranting. I've never had an encounter like this before, and the ignorance made me sick to my stomach. Feel free to share any similar stories you have, maybe one of you has more experience with keeping a civil conversation with people like this.
I wasn't there.  I haven't read the transcript, I don't know you, I don't know this woman, I don't know the relationship between the two of you. What I do know is that people generally don't walk around hoping to get their deeply-held views challenged, but we often do walk around with a sort of fire inside -- a fire that we feel driven by our views, and if we could only share that fire with others, they would understand why we think what we think.  Trying to share that fire with others, however politely, can make them fire back.
I generally try to be pretty selective with who I talk privately to (different than replying in a forum that is viewed by other people, because then you're also talking to them, in a way), because it's very easy to get hooked into ultimately fruitless conversations that boil down to "well, we'll just have to agree to disagree" (with that being the best outcome, with someone able to have a civil debate). If you feel you absolutely must keep talking to this person, you could offer an exchange- I'll watch The Silent Scream if you read my article, and we can exchange our thoughts and feelings and criticisms. But it doesn't sound like she's game, so you might just want to write this one off.
Horrible. My SO has always said no matter what, whether it's in the first trimester or during the birth, my life would come first. Plain and simple.
Without knowing the full context, just wondering why you would IM someone about this anyway? IM is so impersonal for hugely emotional topics like this, I think if any would be trying to sway someone's mind of have a decent conversation with someone it would be better and more effective in person. In some respects (again without knowing previous context), I can see why they would get defensive about being challenged via IM. That being said, her comments are quite awful but I would suggest weeding this person out of your life if it's making you seriously angry. I've had some people like that and they can really drain you.
I'm pro life. You can message me and have a conversation about it if you choose. Its heart breaking what that guy has gone thru.  No its not always murder.
I weed these types of people out of my life. I had a friend tell me that if I would have an abortion because my physical and mental health wasn't well enough to have a child, that I didn't deserve to have one when I WAS well. (I had uncontrolled type 1 diabetes and was financially in a bad place for a child. This was a hypothetical IF I had gotten pregnant at that time.) Sometimes there's no reasoning with them.
"...and it went way worse than expected." No surprises there, unfortunately. I stopped trying to have "polite conversations" with so-called "pro-lifers" ages ago, mostly because those conversations turned into an argument.  These days, I spend what time I choose at discussion forums on the subject and avoid individual "conversations" with those who are obviously anti-choice.  It's less frustrating that way.  :-)
I think that pro-life people often are resistant to facts.  You can look in my history to see a conversation with a guy who made the claim that contraception makes people have more pre-marital sex.  I gave him links to 8 peer reviewed studies showing just the opposite, but he refused to talk about them.  His "proof" that was supposed to convince me?  Rates of premarital sex in 1920 and now.  As if contraception was the only thing that had changed!  We went round and round, and eventually he had the gall to say to me that I was being emotional!  So I think for many of these people, they don't dare confront reality because it directly conflicts with their feelings about the world.
Even if they are having more pre-marital sex, who cares? As long as they are being safe it's non of anyone else's business! He must be jealous.
Oh, premarital sex is bad because it hurts the people having it and also everyone they know!  When I pointed out that premarital sex with an accidental pregnancy hurts all those people even more plus an innocent baby, he declared that bad logic and then said contraception is just plain immoral even if using it would result in good things.  I asked if he would do whatever the church told him was moral, like killing muslims, and he thought that was ridiculous... even though it's happened.  Lol.
I don't know anything about this women or your conversation. I can tell you though that as a person who identifies as prolife it is not a good start to bring up the rare situations that most of us make exceptions for. It kind of shows that you haven't really given any thought to our position and it can be frustrating for some. I'm not justifying what she did. I am just saying what could have been going through her mind.
Why isn't it fair to bring up these cases?  The laws that the pro-life people are promoting would apply to everyone. Even when you make exceptions, you are still creating a legal hurdle that slows down the process of getting needed care. Why do pro-life people expect to not be pushed on the actual outcomes of the laws they are promoting on actual people? Responding with "I don't look at marginal cases" is an abdication of responsibility for your political advocacy. It encourages pro-life proponents to imagine a fantasy case (typically a young unwed woman without familial responsibilities who failed to use birth control and/or shouldn't be having sex in the first place carrying a completely uncomplicated pregnancy with no risk of miscarriage, stillbirth, or permanent health damage) that is the target of legislation. It further encourages people who are pro-life to ignore the reality that once you add up the cases that don't fit this mold (mothers with responsibilities to prior children that could be disrupted, married women, victims of rape, people with adverse medical conditions, devastating defects/non-viable fetuses) you end up with the majority of women who have abortions.  All of which would be threatened by changes to reproductive law.
I think that's a big jump. It wouldn't be the law the slows down the process but a really bad healthcare system. Change that. Problem solved. See above. I don't think so at all. In fact, I think it's quite the opposite. Promoting abortion on demand seems to create a band aid solution that ignores the larger problems. I'm not sure how you have decided to lump these cases together. It seems like you are just setting up a straw man here and putting words in my mouth. If you are trying to dispute the fact that there is a pretty clear line between health/life of the mother and other circumstances than I don't think you are doing a great job. It seems to me that you are lumping in circumstances which are completely unrelated.
Okay, fine. So let's make a healthcare system that doesn't ever make mistakes first, and then discuss it. On another thread recently there is a woman who would have died due to an undiagnosed genetic issue if she hadn't received an abortion "on demand". Once doctors didn't know about it, she wouldn't have gotten permission. Instead, the 2 wrk wait to get the medication left her with permanent spinal damage. I guess she just doesn't matter?  Too marginal?
Basically, a pro-lifer can argue that abortion bans are no worse than, say, physician-assisted suicide bans due to the fact that both of these bans prevent you from doing something which your body.Thus, my question to you is this--do you support the legalization of all medical procedures as long as they are completely consensual?Basically, I am curious about this considering that a critic of legalized abortion (and of Roe v. Wade, of course) could argue that there is no logic in, say, keeping physician-assisted suicide and whatnot illegal while having abortion be legal.Anyway, any thoughts on this?
At the risk of being a bit of a tyrant, I want to place a disclaimer on this thread. /u/Futurist110 frequently messages me requesting medical advice, in a way that has bordered on obsessive and included implicit threats of self-harm.  Futurist110 has persisted despite my frequently reminding them that their questions are outside my specialty and, indeed, outside what is considered medically reasonable. So go ahead and discuss, but please be aware that they have their own agenda and may be posting... not in bad faith, exactly... just not in the faith that you expect. /u/Futurist110, I'm glad that you remain well and posting, but no funny business, please.
I support physician assisted suicide and wish more states would pass legislation approving it.
Sure. Making assisted suicide illegal is just more religious bullshit.
Dismissing prohibitions on assisted suicide as "just more religious bullshit" isn't much of a convincing argument.
It does sum up the opposition pretty well.
I will say it's comforting to know that pro-assisted suicide people evidently haven't actually thought long and hard about their positions on the issue.
I've been involved in the pro assisted suicide movement for years. I have spoken to a lot of opposition. Almost all of them cite religious reasons.
Nonreligious organizations as the American Medical Association, the American Geriatrics Society, the American Hospital Association, and the National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization are all strongly opposed to legalization for reasons that are obviously medical and social.
What are their reasons?
OK; also, though, this would extend to all medical procedures, correct? In other words, if, say, a healthy person wants to commit suicide with a doctor's help, he or she should also be allowed to do this, correct? Likewise, if, say, a people with BIID wants to hae a doctor surgically remove his arm(s) and/or leg(s), he or she should certainly be able to do this, correct?
Provided they can find a doctor who's willing to do it.  However, amputating a perfectly healthy person seems to go against the Hippocratic Oath.
Taking the Hippocratic Oath completely literally would mean that most, if not all, cosmetic surgeries are also unethical, though. Indeed, are doctors getting stripped of their medical licenses for doing this?
Of course, if they can prove they are healthy in terms of understanding the consequences.
Also, for the record, I suspect that conservatives would have at least a tiny bit more respect for Roe v. Wade if courts consistently applied its logic to other medical procedures; I mean, they would still want to overturn Roe and whatnot, but they might at least respect Roe and the courts a little for their consistency.
Great to hear! :)
I think there's a good argument to be made that certain desires are the result of mental illness- that outside of very narrow circumstances (for example, terminal illness, extreme physical suffering), the desire to commit suicide originates from untreated mental illness, and as such, the first course of action should be to address and try to treat the underlying cause.  It's the same as you note in bringing up BIID; the question ends up being about whether we feel the desire is legitimate, or the result of a treatable mental state. As such, I don't think it's particularly fair to compare those sort of extreme situations to abortion; not wanting to have children is not considered a psychiatric disorder. (Although an interesting argument could be made not on the bodily autonomy argument but one of harm reduction, such as with the criminalization of abortion leading to maternal mortality/morbidity . . . if there were really a rash of BIID sufferers doing additional, unnecessary harm by attempting to self-amputate, would we consider allowing it?). But when we get back to more reasonable exercises of the "my body, my choice" argument- like assisted suicide for the terminally ill, or decriminalization of sex work- then yes, I think consistency is good.  It's hard to say one should be allowed, but not another.
Interesting point about the mental illness part; however, the problem that I see with that is that the definition of "mental illness" can be stretched very broadly if one desires--indeed, I think that homosexuality and perhaps also transgenderism were (unfortunately and wrongly) considered to be a mental illness back in the old days. Thus, how exactly would you draw the line with this? For instance, if one's brain literally doesn't match up with one's body and thus one wants to amputate a healthy limb of his or hers, should he or she be allowed to do this? Also, what about if a guy wants to get surgically castrated in order to, say, permanently reduce his sex drive? In addition to this, off-topic, but I have another question for you--do you believe that a parent who forces his or her minor child to accept, say, a kidney transplant from him or her should be able to change his or her mind in regards to this later on and make his or her minor child get another surgery to retrieve his or her kidney (even at the cost of this child's death)? Any thoughts on this?
Yes, but remember that consent is a two way street and doctors are also consenting to perform the procedure, for which they will be held legally and professionally accountable. The medical system generally does a pretty good job of self regulation by requiring that the benefits outweigh the risks for any procedure performed. For example, a surgeon will expect to be prosecuted or struck off the medical board if they amputated a healthy limb simply at the request of a patient. And given that surgeries are team efforts, there are many opportunities for other team members to object if they doubt that the procedure is medically necessary. As another example, in my city, abortion is still listed as a crime, however it is "lawful" if required to preserve the physical or mental health of the woman. There is no limit on the gestational age at which an abortion can be performed, yet I've never heard of anyone having an elective abortion on a healthy fetus in the third trimester but I have heard of many late term abortions being performed in hospitals where the woman's life is in danger, or where it is known that the fetus will not survive after birth.
Even for people with BIID? Also, why exactly doesn't this happen to doctors who perform elective cosmetic surgeries?
What if the limb is causing them immense psychological harm? It feels completely wrong and alien to them even if it's a healthy limb. How is this any different from a trans woman wanting to cut into a perfectly healthy and functioning penis? It is commonly done, even though it's "simply at the request of a patient"
It never as simple as simply requesting and consenting to have a procedure performed. There would be a multi-disciplinary effort to determine whether the the benefits outweigh the risks. This would include an assessment of a person's psychological state and a consideration of alternative treatment options. As far as I'm aware, there are no laws governing what conditions must be met before a person can have gender reassignment surgery, but the medical establishment is always mindful that they could be sued for performing a procedure that harms the patient physically or mentally. Doctors who perform this surgery would always cover themselves by working closely with psychiatrists and would require their endorsement before proceeding. The system works well as it is and there is no need for politicians to interfere with decisions made between a patient and their doctor.
I think most surgeons that do sexual reassignment surgeries are specialized to do those and most sexual reassignment surgeries are done after extensive gender therapy and there is like a multi step approval for getting it done so I think the same thing would just need to be instated for a surgeon doing any other amputation.
Sure. If it isn't hurting anyone. If it would hurt the person seeking the procedure, I think mental counseling should be obtained first (such as, wanting a limb removed or something.)
You mean like for transgender people before their surgeries?
Nope not at all. I mean body modifications for pleasure. Some people actually do it.
I very strongly support physician-assisted suicide. As for other medical procedures, such as cosmetic surgery, IVF, etc, I think they should be legal provided (1) the patient has counselling to explore whether it's the best option for them, and (2) the patient pays for it (most healthcare is entirely taxpayer-funded where I live)
Hmm. See I've considered this and I'm still not 100% sure how I feel about it. The bodily autonomy issue is easy and doesn't really extend to amputations or assisted suicide so it really doesn't have a lot to do directly with abortion but it is to some degree similar as a ethical question. Do I think assisted suicide should be allowed? Yes. It's pretty straight forward with someone who's suffering a terminal illness and would otherwise die a slow and painful death but with someone who isn't suffering a terminal illness I tentatively also say yes. If someone is mentally ill, or just wants to no longer be alive we should explore every possible solution to this problem first but if nothing works then they're obviously still suffering from the problem and I think should be allowed to make that choice. But an otherwise healthy individual who wishes to die would likely have the means of doing it themselves as well. In this case I think it would probably come down to the decision of the doctor but I also really can't say what other ethical issues that would present. As for amputation, this is another one that gets a little weird. If they have a mental illness and all other solutions have failed, I guess it would make sense then to allow them to find someone who will do it. People that do have a mental illness that causes them to want an amputation will often hurt themselves in a desperate attempt to have their limb removed and at that point, that seems like a much bigger issue then just letting them cut the damn thing off. Transgender issues have already been mentioned, and it sort of feels similar to that. Transgender individuals tend to (but not always) want to undergo surgeries to change their bodies to better represent how they feel and I believe they should be able to. I know that they often still suffer from high rates of suicide even after undergoing gender reconstruction surgeries but I think more studies might need to be done about that before I can really be sure how much that has to do with being transgender as opposed to living closeted for so long or any other number of issues that might be related to that like not passing, transphobia, debt, lack of social support, etc. I think for me, it comes down to the quality of life of the individual. If a person's quality of life is deeply effected by something like the desire for an amputation or untreatable suicidal tendencies or anything else I think we should do what we can to improve their quality of life or let them make the choice to end it. If the only way to improve their quality of life is to allow them to have a pointless amputation or plastic surgery or breast augmentation or sexual reassignment surgery or anything else then I think it's wrong of us to block them from doing that. If it's not a direct problem to their quality of life then make them pay out of pocket as the do with cosmetic surgeries, otherwise then I think it should be covered by medical insurance. All that said, these are sort of speculative beliefs. I'm sure there are probably holes in my reasoning and I'm welcome to having them pointed out, there may be things I have quite considered or understand well enough that might make me seriously reconsider these ideas but for now that's as far as I've explored the topic.
Exactly why not, though?
Bodily autonomy is the right to your own body, yes you can make changes to it but that doesn't mean you can force other people too make those changes. Bodily autonomy is your ability to control who, what, and how your body is used. By definition this doesn't cover regulations about bodies, such as seatbelt laws and criminalization of drug use because it doesn't involve someone else using your body. Bodily autonomy grants you the ability to say "no" not "you must do this to me". Edit: it's the same way as you can consent to sex, but you cannot demand sex because you aren't entitled to it and sex would violate someone else's bodily autonomy if they didn't grant consent.
It involves someone else--specifically the government--telling you what you can and can't do with your body, though.
Once again, like I said, bodily autonomy grants you the right to say "no" but not "you must do this to me". The government can stop you from trying to do things with your body, like how drug use illegal and that's not a violation of bodily autonomy because they aren't actually doing anything to your body. Bodily autonomy covers actions done to your body by someone else. I can consent to sex, but I cannot consent on the behalf of someone else to use my body for sex, I can only determine my body's role and no one else's. Meaning yes the government can tell me "you cannot use certain drugs on your body" and punish me for doing so anyways, but they aren't actually doing anything to me so it isn't a direct violation of bodily autonomy.
You appear to have a rather narrow view of bodily autonomy, though.
As opposed to?
A definition of bodily autonomy/bodily rights that also includes things such as physician-assisted suicide.
I never said I was against assisted suicide, in fact I said I was for it, but I don't think by definition it has any correlation to bodily autonomy because that isn't what bodily autonomy means just the same way as consent doesn't mean getting to have something done to you it only defines your agreement to having something done to you. It seems to me that your saying that bodily autonomy means you can have anything you ask for as long as it involves your body but that's just a deep misunderstanding of what bodily autonomy means.
I trust the medical profession to provide guidance on how to ethically provide care. When medical providers identify that a medical intervention is essentially quackery, they lobby for restrictions that are based on evidence/outcomes. I am in favor of upholding these restrictions for the sake of not allowing quacks to prey upon a trusting public.
This may be the wrong subreddit, however I thought I could start here. I have an appointment in the morning tomorrow and my escort/transportation fell through very last minute. I need an escort to sign me in and out after my procedure and am extremely concerned that I won't have one and will be turned away tomorrow. This appointment is serendipity, because it's one of the few weeks in my work schedule I'm in one state for a week, rather than only two days. It was also one of the last open appointments.My family is in another state and my lovely boyfriend is across the country, I don't have anyone that I trust to ask for help and was wondering if anyone had an ideas for my situation? I would greatly appreciate any advice.
It looks like the CAIR Project provides homestays and rides to people travelling to Seattle for abortion care. I can't vouch for any of the people, and don't know how up-to-date it is on who's still offering, but I do see the Seattle area listed in this collection of folks offering transportation for abortions.
I gave them a call and left a message for them, hoping to hear back before my appointment tomorrow! Thank you very much!
Have you tried calling the Planned Parenthood you are going to? They probably have a ton of resources readily available for situations like this and will most likely be able to send someone to help you out. Give them a call in the morning.
On the agenda, they were closed when I found out. Will call in the morning! Thank you. :)
You're welcome.
I live in Nova Scotia and I don't have access to an abortion pill. Mifegymiso is available in Canada now but not in my province yet. Is there anyone out there who could mail me some? Abortions are incredibly difficult to get here and I'm running out of options... if someone is willing to help we can work out a payment through e-transfer.
Are you having difficulty accessing any abortion, or is it just specifically medication abortion by pill?  And if it's the former, may I ask what obstacles you're encountering? Also, are you capable of travelling to Halifax?
We don't just get them over the counter here- we need to go to a doctor to get one and then you are monitored while taking. It's not safe to take on your own. Surely there has to be an organization in Canada that can help you?
Its safe enough to take that some places give it and then let the women go home, but that really depends on how long the pregnancy has been gestating.. and then I think you need to be checked later.
I hope so. Someone on another subreddit mentioned http://www.womenonwaves.org but I don't know if they'd help someone in Canada.
There are two clinics in Moncton that go to 13 weeks 6 days, and then the hospital in Halifax goes to sixteen weeks. Medical abortions (with pills) have to be done sooner, later means surgical. How many weeks late are you?
There are a couple of reasons that unobserved misoprostol/mifepristone isn't optimal.  If you PM me details on the situation I'll help you look into resources.

Good example of the reasons medical procedures shouldn't be micromanaged by the government.
I'm confused about the whole idea of abortion and the debate around it. A year ago right now my wife and I found out that she had a genetically inherited disease and an autoimmune disease. We were 11 weeks pregnant. One of the concerns were that A she couldn't carry to term, her body couldn't physically support the weight. B that if she made it to term labor could cause her heart to rupture and she'd bleed out before anything could be done. In situation A sometime in the second trimester her cervix would fail(no option to stitch it closed) and our baby would slide out. Situation B meant she'd would make it to term but when labor started she would die but baby would survive most likely.So here we faced a choice of potential devastating loss when grocery shopping or I get to be a single father. We had the talk several times about abortion. It's difficult to have a conversation about choosing my wife or my unborn when one is called murder and the other life saving. Why would it be ok to abort to save my wife? Wouldn't it be murder/suicide for us to proceed? Additionally there is a risk that the baby would have what she has and be faced with the same situation later in life. Why would one choice be morally superior to the other? What would you choose? I understand the this is a unique situation and definitely non typical but everything I could read on the pro choice side told me that I was facing a choice to terminate a life. That life starts at conception. That I knew the consequences. That I was going to murder, murder, someone. I assure you I didn't know. Our choice was to try to have a child. Our choice was to raise a child in a loving home which we could provide. Our choice was to love something more than ourselves. Our choice wasn't to face something so horrific as a deciding who survives this.Situation A gave us a scare when her cervix started thinning but fortunately stopped and pregnancy continuedSituation B was still a major threat as we proceeded. I watched as her belly grew and spoke to our son. I would lay in bed and drag my fingers through my wife's hair and watch as she gazed at him moving inside her belly. We laughed as we through out names. I watched as her body changed. I would lay awake a memorize every detail of her face as she slept. I woke up early to make her breakfast. I carried everything and followed her instructions as she began to nest and prepare our home. There is nothing more precious and dear to our experience than witness a woman becoming a mother.A c-section wasn't optional due to how her body healed if she would survive it anyways. So we made or plans and prepared. At 11 pm she came and told me her water broke. We followed our plan exactly. She was unable to get an epidural due to degenerative vertebrae. We waited and spoke as labor set it. Two hours in I was speaking to her telling her she could do this when it happened. I watch as her eyes rolled back and chest went still. I watched completely motionless as they pulled my son from my wife's motionless body. When they handed him to me all I could was her face, her nose, her chin, her eyes. The greatest day of my life wasn't vibrant it was pale and grey. I sat holding my son that will never know his mother's smile and embrace.You might be asking why did we continue and I assure you I ask myself this every waking moment. It's because she was so convinced that abortion is murder. When we went to the clinic people yelled that we were killing our baby and my wife forced us to leave. Yes, it was her choice. But I will not call it a sacrifice. She was scared . It was fear and reteric that in the end removed her choice. So I'm here, I have a five month old son, my wife is gone. There is compelling arguments on both sides of this debate but there is a resonibility in how we address it. Guilt, shame, and fear robbed my family. We could have gotten an abortion and adopted. I love my son. I loved my wife. Someone please explain why abortion would have been murder. Why isn't it murder to those people who yelled at us that we were killing our baby?Note: grammar, spelling, etc. I'm upset
I'm so sorry for your loss. You and your wife should never have been shamed for considering a life-saving medical procedure. I don't know what else to say, except that this is why we hate "pro-lifers." I'm glad your son has such a loving, compassionate dad, and I hope you guys have a good life.
I am stunned by your loss. For the vast majority of us, our greatest fears are losing those we love. This is especially true of spouses, parents, and siblings. Having lost all three (especially as a young person), you are living most people's nightmare. I am terribly sorry for your loss. To address the discussion at hand, I feel very strongly that if we are to actually have reproductive choice, we must feel safe in making that choice. The psychological warfare one faces when having even a medically necessary abortion is, to my mind, criminal. Women are forced to clinics which are typically specifically for abortion (rather than a regular, discreet, OB/GYN), are met with mentally unstable and vitriolic protesters, and then they have to comply with oppressive legislative constraints (in many states), all before they can have a medical proceedure. Protesters should not be allowed within visual range of any medical facility, of any kind. As a legal matter, the presence of protesters is an agregious violation of patient privacy. And pregnancy - even one that may harm or kill you - does things to a woman's brain/body that make us want to continue a pregnancy. We're biologically wired for babies. You were both very excited those first 11 weeks, before learning that complications could lead to fatality for child or mother. She was nearly into the second trimester, and flush with all of the hormones that keep us having children generation after generation. Biologically that's a difficult thing to overcome when faced with such a terrible choice, between a wanted child and one's own life. Add to that the afformentioned psychological warfare, and I can certainly understand you feeling that there are "pro life" protesters with blood on their hands. I agree. On a personal note, I suspect you're struggling to just get through each day. And that's ok. It's only been 5 months. Just hold it together as best you can. If you can find an in person support group, or even just a grief couselor or therapist, it might make the days a little easier. I know you've lost other family and are no stranger to grief. I hope the well meaning advice doesn't offend. For what it's worth, I'll be keeping you in mind. And it's safe to say I'll always remember what you've shared here. My absolute warmest wishes. Please feel free to PM anytime. Edit: I reread the post (I am on my phone) and wanted to answer some of the questions you asked. Paraphrasing: It's not. That's why it's a choice. We need to foster as personal a choice as possible, because morality is personal. This is unlike any other life rights issue. The closest comparison I have, regarding social mores and laws, is that I'm not required to render aid to anyone. It is considered morally and legally acceptable to choose to step over a homeless veteran and his children on the street, choose whether or not to render aid in the event of an accident, choose whether or not to protect someone under physical attack, etc, because it is of potential risk to you. Pregnancy always comes with a level of risk, even in otherwise healthy individuals. Why in this one instance would women be morally or legally obligated to render aid? One could argue they created the person needing aid. I would counter that none of us chose to be women capable of reproducing, or chose to have sex drives, or have failure rates amongst every type of contraceptive available... and your wife certainly didn't choose to have a dangerous genetic disorder complicating a previously very much desired pregnancy. I would have the abortion, and I wouldn't think of it as murder. I know this because I have a genetic disorder that makes pregnancy extremely risky, possibly resulting in tetraplegia or death. My mind is made up. I'm not trying to have children. That doesn't mean your wife made the wrong choice for her. She may have valued the potential of your childs life more than her own. She may have thought she'd rather take the risk, than mourn your son. I don't know. Again... it's just such a personal choice.
I've started/stopped typing this comment a few times. I've been torn between supporting you vs berating the asshole who is ironically (IMO) decrying intellectual dishonesty. Fuck that. I can do both. The kind of asshole who sees this post and thinks your lived experience somehow doesn't count ("you don't get to use marginal cases", blah blah blah, emphasis mine), or somehow thinks [this] (/And I hate to say it but if you had been intellectually honest in the first place, and been able to see the difference between what those protesters were progressing and your situation, your wife might be alive today.) is an appropriate response, is not worth engaging with. I'm so sorry about all of the painful things you've had to endure (and will probably have to keep enduring...grief is a bitch). You ended your post with a disclaimer about grammar and all of that, but your point is crystal clear. I'm pretty sure this is not the last time you'll encounter some fucknut trying to convince you that a legitimate medical procedure is actually murder. Please just remember you're not alone.
He doesn't. It's intellectually dishonest to do so. Marginal cases should not be applied to the entirety of cases specifically because they are marginal. For example, Some people have heart conditions and should not ride the Rollercoaster. You do not have a heart condition. Should you therefore not ride the Rollercoaster? Another example: I have a basket full of jellybeans, all of them deadly poisonous except for ten (and lets make those ten exceptionally delicious for emphasis.) want one? By Op's own admission the protesters influenced the decision. Therefore, if he or his wife had understood the marginality and singularity of his wife's situation, the outcome may truly have been different. You're clearly mad that I'm right, and I do not care. Furthermore I don't see the point in being more personable about this situation anyway, since being as bereaved as he states he is contrasts with the lack of thought on the subject (I could reasonably expect it to be glanced over by people here, being that they aren't involved) and that contrast coupled with the obvious contradiction (she made her own choice Vs the protesters have blood on their hands) leaves very little doubt that, unless his actions are deeply shameful, he is lying. He is a troll. He is 'virtue signaling'.  Yet so many have drank his koolaid. It's depressing to me still however, for that fact, and that I have had to point this out when no one else apparently would bother.
I am so so sorry for your loss. I can't imagine the pain and loneliness of raising a child without his mother. Please keep going, one day at a time. Keep reaching out to whatever supports you have (it seems that neither of you had much family still living, so this may be hard). Join grief groups and do whatever you can to fight for your son. You seem compelled to channel your anger and pain toward advocacy for women's right to make stigma-free choices about their lives and their bodies. I want to encourage you to find purpose and meaning for your wife's death in that advocacy as well as in the light that is your son. I hope you find peace.
I am so sorry for your loss and congratualtions on your new son. As a prolifer I can tell you that in situations that involve life of the mother almost every prolifer would make an exception. And there is no first world prolife nation that does not allow for this. No one should have to go through what you and your family have. Your wife is a heroine and choose to save her child. Her legacy will live on through her son. I hope you can find some peace and healing after this traumatic experience and that you have friends and family who can provide support.
It's murder because it kills babies. Most people who have abortions - by a wide margin - are not considering it because they were raped, or because it was incest, or even because they are physically likely to be permanently harmed or killed by carrying the child to term. You don't get to use marginal cases in reference to the whole. It sucks that this happened to your family, but you should be ashamed of trying to use this travesty as an argument against life, least of all because an appeal to emotion is a logical fallacy - you are attempting to manipulate the stupid by intellectual dishonesty. Once again, I'm sorry for your loss, but it doesn't give you an excuse to promote death. And I hate to say it but if you had been intellectually honest in the first place, and been able to see the difference between what those protesters were progressing and your situation, your wife might be alive today.
I'm prochoice completely. It was her choice. I'm not promoting death I'm asking a question. Many want abortions to be made illegal. You clearly have never faced such a difficult decision. You can stand on the sides saying what you're doing is wrong. In this case one of them was going to die. She made her choice. I understand this isn't a typical situation. The people yelling at us made her feel a certain way and those people have blood on their hands. I'm not obligated to explain my situation to them. Why isn't what they did considered the same in my particular situation. Do you know what it feels like? I'm not promoting death or trying to sway anyone's opinion on abortion, I'm trying not to lose my shit and reaching out trying to maintain sanity. I have no one. Her parents died in a car wreck when she was 18. My parents were lost in a house fire and my sister committed suicide a month later. So maybe get off your fucking high horse and understand not everybody has had it as good as you, you arrogant fuck. But tell yourself you're right, tell yourself you win. You clearly need the validation to feel superior.
Hey just want to say I'm sorry this person is being a dick to you. I'm pro-life and do not support this behavior, nor the behavior you referenced in your OP (about people yelling at you at the abortion clinic). Most of us do support the option of abortion when the mother's life is in danger; I count myself among them. I'm very sorry you lost your wife.
The problem is that protesters who shame women in front of clinics have absolutely no way of knowing the particulars of that situation of the woman they are spewing hatred at.  Many may not have their lives in danger, but some certainly are aborting fetuses that are either life threatening or unviable. The fact that they are willing to paint with a broad brush guaranteed to heighten tragedy for vulnerable families is unconscionable.
I completely agree. And even if there was some way to know, it's still a shitty thing to do and not going to result in anything other than people mistrusting you/your entire movement.
Please don't listen to what this guy is spewing. You have every right to be angry with those protesters. I'm so, so sorry for your loss. I hope your story helps some more open minded pro lifers to understand the damage these protests and shitty abortion policies can cause.

Why are you trolling here?
Hey man, fuck off.

What a horrible human being you are. Do you not see the pain and grief that people like you have caused this man! When some says their wife has died, and you say, "I'm sorry, but... " you have NO moral high ground.
You're mad because you know I'm not wrong
Holy shit. Get a fucking clue. Learn how the world works and then come back.
WTF is wrong with you man? I'm prolife but this is a ridiculous and callous response. The man is grieving. You should apologize for your dumbass, rude and ignorant response. I hope OP realizes that you are not representative of most prolifers.
Your mad, but I'm still not wrong. Perhaps that's why you're mad?

nah
I'm mad because being right doesn't persuade people you idiot. Who gives a shit about being right if you are not actually helping anyone or changing minds and hearts. Plus, common decency dictates that you do not talk like this to s grieving person. Do you have any idea what it means and feels like to lose someone you love?
Yes. I do. Its specifically BECAUSE i know whats its like that i dont offer sugarcoated chicken soup for the soul bullshit platitudes  when actually KNOWING SHIT CAN PREVENT THESE TYPES OF TERRIBLE THINGS. The world is an unforgiving and gritty place. Floating through it like a turd in the sewer makes it WORSE FOR EVERYONE. THINK KNOW SHIT
What could have prevented it? The mother wanted to save her child. That's it. She gave up her life so her son could live. She is a hero. Also, I'm letting you know that you could have made your point in a more polite manner, making others more receptive to it. Here is the unsugarcoated version for you since you seem to appreciate that style. Being an abrupt asshole will not help the cause. You can make the same point in a gentler manner and it would have been more effective.
What could have prevented it? The mother wanted to save her child. That's it. She gave up her life so her son could live. She is a hero. Also, I'm letting you know that you could have made your point in a more polite manner, making others more receptive to it. Here is the unsugarcoated version for you since you seem to appreciate that style. Being an abrupt asshole will not help the cause. You can make the same point in a gentler manner and it would have been more effective.
According to op the protesters "have blood on their hands" leading me to believe that they were a significant influence over her decision. That being the case, realizing beforehand that marginal cases such as hers are not what prolife protesters are protesting would have caused their presence to have less influence and her decision potentially to be different. There's nothing wrong with what I said or how I said it.
You said it in a heartless and careless manner. If you can't see this then I think you should reevaluate.
Any "lovey doveyness" I could have offered would have been, since I'm a stranger, disingenuous at best. Blowing smoke up the mans ass wasn't my intention. You'll recall however that I did express the sentiment that what happened to him was terrible. But I also said that it doesn't give him an excuse to promote more death. Also He said it was her choice, and simultaneously that the protesters had blood on their hands. I don't accept that contradiction. His wife can be a political martyr, or a hero to her child. Not both. You trying to convince me that I'M heartless in comparison to that. . . Isn't something I can take seriously. So get a hobby or just get off my ass
Really? So you can not empathize with a stranger? His wife is a hero to her child. That's it. I never said you are heartless. I don't even know you. I said that you could have made your point in a less careless manner and it would have been more effective. Isn't reddit a hobby?:). Lol.  Consider it a blessing that I am up your ass. This kind of immature and rude behavior is going to come bite you in the ass. Trust me, I've seen it happen. And it doesn't help the prolife movement. Stop thinking about stroking your own ego and start thinking about how you can make your point more effectively. Knowing truth is a whole lot better if you are actually able to share it in a way that gets through to others. Seriously, just stop being an arrogant prick.


I didn't say it was terrible. Way to fuck up! I said it was gritty and unforgiving. Life is hard. Everything worthwhile is hard. You're literally trying to twist shit people say into a reason to kill babies! Wow you're horrible. Baby killers

thank you for the compliment. Its a shame you have nothing worthwhile to say, and that you know it. GG
Lots of reports on this one.  I'm letting it stand because it's the honest pro-life position to OP's question.

I have honestly felt sorry for McCorvey since I figured out my pro-choice stance. She was clearly a deeply conflicted woman with a lot of inner turmoil. Mental illness is an insidious thing. If there is an afterlife, hopefully she is at peace.
It's sad that she will always be associated with the legalization of abortion in America despite the fact that she later became a staunch pro-life advocate.
Its the sad truth, yet people still downvote you


Why would she want to highlight support from the KKK, a group associated with murder and terrorism?
Because babies.
Because she's a crazie. The abortion issue brings out the crazies on both sides.
This takes "think of the children" to new heights.. Also, is Putin the god they refer to here?
please sign this petition and please take the time to contact your local representative about bills HR 586 and HR 681Please be aware that there are TWO bills to resist and follow.Here is the petition for HR 586: https://www.change.org/p/u-s-house-of-representatives-protect-women-s-right-to-choose-oppose-bill-hr-586?recruiter=552966680&utm_source=share_petitionI'm a child-free female and I do not want to be faced with the possibility of a forced birth if the unexpected happens (the unexpected which is actively prevented).)I do not enjoy putting my opinions on display or forcing anyone to see things I would like them to see. I also am sick of our political climate and wish with all my might that I could put it on the back burner and move on. However, this is really happening. There is a real Bill sitting at the feet of the U.S. House of Representatives and the Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice. Both entities are right-wing majority. It has been proven that the impossible is possible already. Right now this isn't getting a lot of attention because of all the other waves being made. It does take a while for a bill to move through all the motions, but that is all the more reason to throw up resistance now. Please, do not let this quietly get pushed through the system while everyone's eyes are turned away.Please do not let this out of your sight and please take action, if you are a U.S. citizen, contact your local representative. Please share this petition and the links provided if you have the ability to.Where Bill HR 586 sits right now: https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/586The committee the bill is sitting before at present: https://judiciary.house.gov/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/115th-Constitution-and-Civil-Justice-Subcommittee.pdfHow to contact your local representative: http://www.house.gov/representatives/find/A good pre-written letter to send: https://secure2.convio.net/res/site/Advocacy?cmd=display&page=UserAction&id=656The actual bill itself:"Shown Here: Introduced in House (01/17/2017) Sanctity of Human Life Act This bill declares that: (1) the right to life guaranteed by the Constitution is vested in each human and is a person's most fundamental right; (2) each human life begins with fertilization, cloning, or its equivalent, at which time every human has all the legal and constitutional attributes and privileges of personhood; and (3) Congress, each state, the District of Columbia, and each U.S. territory have the authority to protect all human lives"
Thanks for this . It might be worth crossing posting to r/twoxchromosomes to increase its audience
Interesting that the letter is from an infertility group as of course the law would inhibit IVF
Agreed, I was happy to find it. We really must change the dialogue of this debate. This is a great letter coming from a different angle, one which they might have more compassion for. I am going to cross post again today, but after posting twice yesterday, Reddit wouldn't let me post it again for the day.
Does anyone know of any articles or newspapers covering this?
Very few that I've seen, when I google it, there's a small article in Elle magazine and I think Huff Post has something on it, but as far as I know, it's getting very little attention. Also, the Bill HR 681 is confusing because an the 115 (2017) congress, it's a fetal heartbeat bill, but at the 114 (2016) congress, the same bill number HR 681 is a bill about duty free luggage. So, when you google it, if you're not paying attention, it looks like it's nothing to worry about it. I don't like it.

Shapiro strings ideas together faster than a listener can process what he's saying. But taken one by one, his arguments are mostly irrational and misleading. He's intellectually dishonest. He's a discredit to the pro-life movement.
I only had to time to watch the first 4 minutes and I will comment on your 6 point . If I get some time I will watch the rest later and comment but there is a lot here already to discuss. Excluding late term abortion (since a brain has already begun to develop here) I think the question is, why is a brain a morally relevant factor? I won’t argue this point here because I think it is irrelevant to the abortion debate tbh. Again, why is this a moral significant factor? I (and other prolifers) don’t agree. Here are examples of abortion advocates zeal so I don’t think he is wrong in saying this exist, Lena here and here Why do you think he is defining human being subjectively if he is using a biological definition? But yes, many, many headlines say Princess pregnant with baby. Here is just two examples, here and here
Sustained brain waves are how we judge a person to be alive or dead. I said Practically no one. Also the links you sited are more women trying to shed the (in their opinion unwarranted) shame they feel because of their experiences. To them, it would be like rape victims joining a movement to speak out. Its not saying their rape is great, its saying they shouldn't feel bad about it. Also Lena Dunham is one crazy actress, I will concede there are some crazy people out there that hold opinions that are complete insanity. Is that the biological definition? I'm trying to find proof of this but every definition I can find is pretty vague. I've also found papers written by Doctors that go both ways. The ones that support it being called a human being are from religious universities.  It is a human organism, that's for sure. If it really is a medical fact then I'd have to adjust my argument a bit, but it seems that human being is more of a sociological term than it is a medical one. If there is hard evidence of this somewhere please show me because I'm happy to be proven wrong if I learn something. This was more just comical to me. The articles say Baby No 3!, he left that last part out and said it as if the article just said "With Baby".
Brain waves are how we judge some one to be dead. Biologically an entity does not need to have brain waves to be considered alive. Fair enough Prolifers refer to living and human organisms or beings (being just means existence). That is, an embryo is living. An embryo is human. An embryo is an organism. And an embryo exists. These are all biological terms. Things that can be detected in physical reality and undeniablly an objective biological fact. Really? I'd like to see these. I am thinking your research is a bit bias. Not sure but it kind of sounds that way. Here's what I always find. I have never found a credible biological source that says anything different than a distinct and living human organism begins to exist at fertilization. It says Pregnant With Baby No. 3! You say that no one says pregnant with BABY. But they sure do. Trust me I am a woman and have been pregnant with baby three times. I think you'll have to admit you were wrong on this one :).
I have an argument against early term abortions if anyone wants to hear it.
me thanks
Nope
Let's hear it



Hi-- sorry if I'm breaking any rules with this question. Remove if needed.I'm a college student writing a paper about Planned Parenthood. The assignment is to choose a nonprofit organization and research it. One component of the assignment is to evaluate the need for the nonprofit and how it relates to other organizations doing similar work.Can anybody point me toward other organizations which provide abortion, or toward websites that might have useful information? What I would really love is a directory of abortion services in every state, if such a thing exists. Anything you can tell me would be helpful. I'm a big supporter of PP, but I honestly just don't know much at all about how abortion actually works.Thanks!
Look into Mike Pence defunding PP in his state and the subsequent HIV outbreaks.
Similar situation under Jeb Bush in Florida.
Good idea!! Thank you.
Some (apparently) little known facts about PP: I've been told by many people that they will act as doctors for other health concerns as well. Woke up with bronchitis? They'll see you for that too. They have comparable services for men (cheap STD testing, check-ups, free condoms) The vast majority of locations provide no abortion services. They mostly provide womens wellness exams, birth control, and sex education.
Source?
Each location lists the services they provide. They will all refer you to the closest clinic that does abortions if you want a referral (listed as abortion referral on their site) They have clinics that do abortions... just not many (listed as 'abortion services' on those clinic sites) Get on their website and look at the ones in your state. Most of the ones in mine provide no abortion services (TX - even prior to the last few years of crazy anti-choice legislation) There was 1 PP clinic in all of Dallas and the surrounding suburbs/smaller cities that provided abortion services. It's where at least 2 of my friends had theirs, and they had to pass many locations between our little city and the only location that provides abortion services in Dallas. There are loads of PP clinics in this area, but just that 1 providing abortion services.
I'm not in the US but have attended conferences with other abortion providers over the years. Throughout America there are many well run, small, independent abortion clinics, owned and operated by individual doctors, however these independent clinics are finding it a tough fight to withstand ongoing legal battles to remain open in the face of TRAP laws in conservative states. PP get all the recognition, whereas many of these independent clinics were established at a time and place when their services were desperately needed, and often, long before PP set up around the corner. Have a look at https://prochoice.org/think-youre-pregnant/find-a-provider/ for details of abortion providers.
Thank you so much!!
This is what you're looking for: https://www.abortioncarenetwork.org/abortion-care-providers/ That's certainly not a comprehensive list, but those are a good number of the non-planned parenthood, small, private, stand alone abortion care providers. Large hospital systems also offer abortion services. However, 1. they're insanely expensive (10K+) because it's a surgery. 2. (probably obvious with the $$$) but you need insurance to be seen or you have to pay cash upfront.
Thank you so much!!!
Here's another list of providers: http://www.abortion.com First trimester abortions are for the most part standard obstetric care that can be completed by any OB-GYN.  But most refer out or will do abortions that they then call something else to avoid the headache of dealing with the stigma/politics/cost.  ACOG is even in favor of extending prescriber privileges for medical abortions to nurse practitioners. As access to free-standing clinics disappears, more private practice doctors may step up (but not openly).
Thank you!
Unfortunately for your research, I don't know of any other large organizations that provide abortion. There are plenty of stand-alone clinics, though. Planned Parenthood's advantage is that it has the "brand name" and people know it as a place that provides legitimate abortions, in contrast to many other clinics which may get mixed up with the awful "pregnancy options" clinics that pop up around them.
I know of a few in Colorado (I've worked at two and know of others) and a few in Ohio. You may want to look at the National Abortion Federation's website.
https://prochoice.org/think-youre-pregnant/find-a-provider/ This website helps you look up abortion providers that are part of the National Abortion Federation. edit: Yay! Someone posted it. Other good websites besides the NAF and PP to look up abortion stats and general info are naral.org and guttmacher.org. What state are you in? There are other resources I can point you towards, depending on where you are. :) In Ohio, the main providers are PP, Preterm, and Whole Women's Health, as well as some smaller clinics. I know the most about PP, but I know a bit about abortions and abortion law generally. Let me know if I can help at all.
If you know about abortion law, you may be able to help me with one question I did have. Are there any problems with crossing state lines to go to an abortion clinic? I've heard that you can be charged with a crime for transporting a minor across state lines for an abortion. Is there any similar law for adults? If you're insured through Medicaid, do you need to stay in your state for an abortion? What about private insurance?
I'll need to look into some specifics about crossing state lines, as I only know of proposed laws that deal with minors. Medicaid can't be used to cover abortion services in any state, regardless of whether or not you seek an abortion in your home or a neighboring state. The Hyde Amendment is a federal law that prohibits the use of federal money to subsidize abortion. If you are insured through Medicaid and need an abortion, you're on your own to come up with the full cost out of pocket. That's why there are nonprofit groups, like Women Have Options, that exist solely to help low income women pay for abortions, and part of why Planned Parenthood uses a "sliding scale" to determine a patient's costs based on her income. Medicaid can be used to cover non-abortion "wellness" services like Pap tests; however, when politicians talk about "defunding Planned Parenthood," a huge chunk of that just means that they don't want anyone to be able to use Medicaid to cover ANY services provided by a Planned Parenthood clinic.
These numbers are a little older, but you may find this helpful? - https://www.guttmacher.org/sites/default/files/pdfs/pubs/psrh/full/4000608.pdf
On the "how it relates" end of things, you may want to look into how the Hyde Amendment affects PP and other clinics, and the network of charities that have formed in order to help people afford abortions.
A lot of GYN's perform them. My mom has assisted (she's a nurse) in many at her hospital.
Here in Southern California we have the Family Planning Association (FPA) also most hospitals that are pro choice oriented (cedars Sinai for example) have private clinics that offer the service.
Here is a list of comprehensive women's health care clinics.



Then what do I tell my Christian roommate who says that abortion is murder? In his view, he sees all abortions as something that hurts him on a personal level due to his strong faith.
Tell him you view eating a steak as contributing to murder, because cows are living beings and thus deserving of the right to life.  Then ask him how he would feel about you legislating your belief and banning the consumption of meat.
Thanks for posting, I enjoyed the video
Thanks for watching.
Unfortunately the author of this video is not actually putting forth an unbiased view. At least as a prolifer I can say that he missed the main point of our argument. He just doesn't seem to get it. It's not about "it's a life" for us. It's about being a distinct and living human organism. Biology dictates that an embryo is not the same as human skin cells or sperm for example. Until he can grasp this point I think he should not put up any more videos and pretend that he is unbiased. Clearly he is not. I would even bet that he is prochoice. On that note, I do appreciate the effort to get each side to be more open to the other. That is refreshing and I agree we should try to understand one another and have better dialogue with eachother.
I agree with your last paragraph, any questions on how we can enable it ? As it always seems to reduce to ad hominem attacks on the more popular subs
Good question. I try my best to be open to the prochoice POV. Mostly I think it comes down to our differences in opinion about the moral worth of the human fetus or baby. It is such an emotional charged subject so sticking to words that aren't loaded helps. I usually use both the term fetus and child to show I don't want to fight or shove my view down someone's throat. I think there is some common ground we share. That is the notion that abortion is not a wonderful thing and reducing or eliminating them is key. I also haven't met any prolifer or prochoicer who is not for the idea of making adoption more accessible and pregnancy, childbirth and parenting more socially supported. So we could focus on those things. In fact, I think the best thing about the video was that the author showed that there is a middle ground and abortion restrictions after a certain point are something most people in both camps can agree on. At least after viability (21-24 weeks). Unfortunately, being prolife on reddit means getting downvoted so no one ever gets to hear our side. I appreciate the openness this sub has. I think both subs (prolife and prochoice) are pretty good at allowing dialogue. Still tons of downvotes but at least no outright bans and such like you would see on TwoX for example. Curious, do you have any good ideas?
Thanks for responding, have an up vote,!Surely these must be conservative subs where your views would not be down voted?
Thanks. There are but I am pretty liberal in all my other views.
How do you define human?
Homo Sapien. Having the human genome. But remember I said, distinct and living human organism. Not simply human.
So people with altered genomes, such as people with Down's, do they count as human to you?
I think you need to go back and read the link. Human genome is much more complex than having a specific number of chromosomes. Did you read the link including the part about mutations? So yes, to answer your question, of course people with down syndrome or an irregular number of chromosomes are identifiably and biologically human beings. Not to me but to the scientific community. Remember this is not about my opinion. This is about biology.
What level of variation would you accept from the normal human genome and still consider that thing human?
I accidentally replied with another account. Sorry. Here it is again, It is not really about what I would accept. Biology is not a subjective topic imo. Typically biologist say we are 99.9% similar and that there are significant differences among the genomes of human individuals on the order of 0.1%. Refer to the section called, Genomic Variation in Humans. If you are trying to get at something you may as well just spell it out. Don't bother trying to produce a trap, it's not conducive to discussion. I am not on here to argue. I think it's much more important that we bridge the gap of understanding between prolifers and prochoicers. I hope we at least agree on this.
Yeah but biologists limit that 99.9% remark to races, genders, and cultures.  I'm not sure if that accounts for people with genetic disorders, though.  And that's not really what I was asking.  My question is, at what point of variance from the typical human genome does something cease to be human?
I didn't think so. I think it does. I understand what you are asking but I think the question oversimplifies the concept. It's not just about variance but also about types of variance. As far as I know they have mapped out many different types of variances. None as far as I know have a significant difference greater than 0.1%. So I'm assuming biologist would start there. I can't say for sure though.


Define "homo sapien"
I already did. See my previous comment.

If you are to lazy to read the definition it's not my fault.

You need to reread since that's not what I said. I provided a link with a much more thorough explanation. Go read it.


Some times you have to think how much of a hypocrite he is.
The pastor of my parents' church was basically in bed with Cruz. He is really close friends with Cruz and told his whole church to support his campaign because "he's a man of God."
I reckon he will be running again in 2020
Probably.  IMO he's not much better than Trump as far as anti-choice beliefs go. I'll vote for the Democratic nominee in any case.  I'm just wondering who it will be.  :-)
He's a Christian domininionist which  is not great news for non Christian's  and those that don't want a theocracy https://www.google.co.uk/amp/s/www.washingtonpost.com/amphtml/national/religion/ted-cruzs-campaign-is-fueled-by-a-dominionist-vision-for-america-commentary/2016/02/04/86373158-cb6a-11e5-b9ab-26591104bb19_story.html?client=safari
"He's a Christian dominionist..." Yikes.  That makes him even worse than Trump, and I didn't think that was possible.   I just hope the Democratic nominee will be a strong one.
I don't know that much about US politics but I think if they nominated a three legged cat it would have a higher approval  rating than Trump
I've said this many times before and I'll say it again: Fuck Ted Cruz
I live in Texas I have to deal with him
You have my condolences, friend



Then I think this person is an anti-contraception extremist as well as being anti-abortion. Making BC pills and IUDs illegal would create a lot of unwanted pregnancies, and possibly, a lot of angry resentful mothers who never wanted kids in the first place but were forced into motherhood by such draconian laws.  Let's hope such backward laws against contraception never get passed.

JFC, Arkansas.
That having sex voluntarily is consent to become pregnant. They'll say, "you knew pregnancy was a risk when you had sex so you don't have a right to end it."I've tried to use many analogies to demonstrate that consenting to one thing is not automatic consent to whatever might result from that thing, but it's like arguing with brick walls.Does anyone have a good counter for this ridiculous argument?
I know stds are a risk of sex but that doesn't mean I have to live with it if I get one that's treatable. I'm gonna get antibiotics and get rid of it.
That's not going to resonate well with pro-lifers. Humans =/= disease
I get that. But bacteria on mars would be considered some form of life.
Your comparing unborn children with STDs, if you actually day this to a pro-lifer they're going to think you're evil. You're not going to persuade anyone with that. That's the point.
Yeah. Originally I was responding to the risk/consent issue but I'm not necessarily saying it's the best way to win over pro-lifers. This was my other comment earlier https://www.reddit.com/r/prochoice/comments/5rmblx/ive_been_hearing_this_consent_argument_a_lot/dd9251y/
Yeah there's absolutely no way you're going to convince me that abortion isn't killing another human being. You pointed out the strongest argument (IMO) for being pro-choice - the alternative is just worse. I would rather abortions not happen, but unsafe abortions are just dreadful, and women will do it.
This is actually a really good rebuttal! I'm going to use this one.
Problem with that is the pro-life will say "it doesn't involve with another human". I get that all the time.
I do too. It's so frustrating. How do we rebut that?
since they like appeal to emotion. Say this "Well, I guess then it won't be rape if I continued to have sex with someone who no longer wanted sex during the act because she/he said yes before we engaged".
Don't say that. They'll probably agree with it.
Yeah, my experience of trying to explain consent to pro-lifers has led me to the conclusion that most of them have probably raped someone or will go on to do so at some point, as they fundamentally do not understand the concept of consent or how the law on rape works.
I just rolled my eyes so hard
I used this with someone and their response was that you aren't killing anyone when you take antibiotics so it's different. That seems to be their response to all of my analogies :/
Pro-life people don't like logic. They like appeal to emotion agruements.

I have a good one: consenting to eating a cheeseburger from a restaurant doesn't give you the right to die from choking on it. You have the right to dislodge it.
Does that mean you consent to being hit by a bus when you cross the street? You knew the risks when you stepped off that sidewalk!
Why did you consent to having your house burn down you knew wood was flammable when you built with it. Then filled the place with soft flammable furniture and electrical wiring. You clearly wanted a fire
Yes, tell them to look up consent and consequence. Consent=Agreement/Permission to a term or situation. Consequence=Result from something happening. -If the person agree to have sex without agreeing to pregnancy. They're only consenting to sex. -Consent has to remain continuously for pregnancy to be a consent. If the person no longer is giving there consent. They're no longer consenting. Example: Let say A and B were having sex casually (both parties consenting). In the middle of the act. B wanted to stop and told A to stop. B is no longer giving there consent to have sex. If A continues. A would be raping B. Consent is not a contract, it's not a legal bound to something. Consent is just a person willing something to happen by agreeing/permission to happen as long as that person is continuously is a willing. If a person isn't willing. They're not giving a consent during, or after a situation.
I have 3 rebuttals they fucking hate. By that logic they must support abortion in the case of rape. The woman didn't consent. I didn't consent to being a woman, capable of reproduction. None of us CHOSE to be women capable of reproducing. We were just born into it. When I learned as a kid what being a woman meant, in terms of being an incubator, I was horrified. I still am! If they REALLY want to get into everyone elses personal business and make this about personal responsibility, then they should be pushing for all men to have vasectomies. Men can keep sperm banked indefinitely, and practically all pregnancies would be planned (vasectomy fails 0.15% of the time.) It's the lowest risk, longest lasting, method of avoiding unwanted pregnancy, is reversible, and they won't also have to argue that rape victims should be forced through a pregnancy. If they balk at that last idea, then you get to pivot into  their REAL priorities. My proposed "solution" drops the abortion rate for unwanted pregnancy to near zero. It's no more intrusive than preventing women access to medical care. Watch them try to explain now how it's not about punishing women. The BEST they can come up with is that vasectomies, "are unnatural." Now, I don't actually think we should force all men to have vasectomies, but boy is it fun watching them try to wrap their heads around that one!
You're giving me flashbacks. I cried when my mom first "gave me the talk"
I was given a book that explained how the body worked at the age of 4. I spent several years wanting a sex change, until I learned of the existence of contraception. No idea how I learned about sex changes before I learned about contraception.
Good one! I may have to try that next time.
You could also say that the use of birth control, even one that ultimately fails (whether it be the withdrawl method or rhythm method or forgetting to take the pill), is a sign there was no consent to being pregnant
They always counter that the woman knew there was still a risk of pregnancy since no birth control is 100% effective.
Neither is abstinence.  Case in point, if they're religious, the virgin Mary.  But also there's a good article on Love, Joy, Feminism about how we can't use "perfect use" of abstinence to measure it's efficacy.
Then counter with the fact that that person is saying nobody should have sex unless they're willing to have a baby. So even a couple that is married and already has several children, because they don't want any more kids, should stop having sex for the next decade or two until the woman goes through menopause. Is that really what the person believes? If the person's sister, a grown woman of nearly 40 years old, said her doctor told her she shouldn't get pregnant again because the pregnancy would be dangerous for her health, would the person say "welp, you can't have sex anymore than, because there is always the risk of pregnancy"?
I had a person trying to convince me that yes, of course married people should have sex, birth control is almost 100% effective so they probably won't get pregnant, but if they do get pregnant they have to keep the baby. I don't think some of these people understand what being pregnant really entails. They talk about it like an annoyance or inconvenience, instead of the life-altering and potentially deadly experience that it is.
This is my biggest issue with it. They're always like "well they should carry it to term and give it up for adoption!" Like pregnancy and giving birth is some walk in the park. And in the US can cost $10-20K at the least. And yeah there are some crazy good and selfless people out there but for the most part people only want to adopt healthy babies.
"Is that really what the person believes?" It could be the case, if that person is stuck in the past by two or more centuries.  I think there are still many such people who really believe that sex is ONLY for reproduction, and couples shouldn't have sex if they don't want children.  Even if that's for a lifetime.
Lung cancer is a risk associated with smoking.  That doesn't mean a cancer patient has no right to treatment. Foreclosure is a risk associated with buying a home.  That doesn't mean a distressed borrower has no right to sell. That's not to say that we are comparing lung cancer or foreclosure to abortion.  We are using examples to illustrate the absurdity of the principle that we necessarily lose the right to cure the unwanted result of a risk. Edit:  and by "cure" i mean "a complete or permanent solution or remedy" lest anyone suggest that pregnancy isn't an illness.
The whole premise of this argument is the idea that a pregnancy, once begun, must be carried to term . . . with the unstated component that the reason this is so is due to the concept of fetal personhood. For that reason alone, I tend to point out the uneven application of this logic and and gently suggest that perhaps the circumstances surrounding the pregnancy might be irrelevant to them, seeing as they feel the humanity/personhood of the embyro/fetus trumps anything else. It's not uncommon for people to have ancillary reasons that bolster their belief in something- they feel a fetus ought not be aborted and it's even easier to believe when they also think sex should have consequences.  But when we debate one another, it's also important to pare it down to the essentials, lest we get bogged down in details that ultimately don't matter one iota to the other side. Maybe there's somebody out there who honestly doesn't believe in fetal personhood (or at least purport to, when pushed to take their premises of "consent to pregnancy" to the logical extreme), but I've yet to come across one.  When you ask about treatment for STD's, for example, I've always had them revert back to "But it's a baby!".
Exactly! I try to keep them to arguing one part of the issue at a time but they keep combining different thoughts. Like, if you think fetuses have a right to life how can you believe in a rape exception? So frustrating.
Definitely.  I know some people accuse them of moving the goalposts, but sometimes I honestly think it's just that there are so many different swirling aspects to abortion, all which factor into one's opinions, that it's super easy to jump from one to another.  It's easy enough for me to do as a pro-choicer, too, if I'm not careful. As far as rape exceptions go, I actually wrote a blog post all about my feelings on the subject.
Good food for thought. I just don't really know how to bring these people to a place of compassion without pointing out their logical inconsistency :/
Exactly my argument. Don't tell me abortion is "murder" but then say you're okay with abortion in cases of rape. Murder is murder, dude. At least be consistent in your ignorance. Frustrating, indeed.
I was trying all kinds of analogies on one person, and they ended up saying that if someone broke into your house without permission and left a baby in your living room it was ok to murder that baby.
I don't understand this at all
Yeah it's pretty hard to argue with them because it's a fundamental difference between either believing a clump of cells is a baby or believing that an embyro turning into a baby is a process not a light switch. You're never going to convince them it's not murder. Sometimes the only thing you can say to appeal to pro-life people is that women are going to get abortions whether it's legal or not and they may die from it, so if you're pro-life you should care about 2 lives dying instead of just one. Making abortions illegal won't stop abortions but it will end women's lives.
You knew a car accident was a risk of driving or riding in a car. So you don't have a right to medical care if you are injured.
Lol, I've tried that one. They always reply with, "You're not killing something when you receive medical care." So....it's not actually about consequences it's about "killing children".
Pro-lifers believe that an embryo is a person. If that is true, and the embryo is continuing to occupy another person's body after consent to its presence has been withdrawn, the embryo is committing rape. They can't logically have it both ways: either an embryo is a person, in which case it's committing an assault that you have every right to defend yourself against, or it's not a person.
I'm not sure that's a reasonable conclusion to draw here. If, through consensual sex, a person becomes pregnant, that embryo is in the woman's uterus as the direct result of a consensual act which has pregnancy as its natural end. It did not choose to be conceived, nor to be in or remain in its present location, regardless of the wishes for the mother that the embryo remain or go. It seems evident that we would have to ascribe intent to the embryo's actions, when in fact it is simply existing where it was placed, without its foreknowledge or intent, and the only place where it can live. It just seems kind of offensive to equate someone forcibly and knowingly choosing to rape someone, with a pregnancy. Offensive to pro-life people and rape victims.
Lack of intent on the part of someone committing an assault doesn't remove your right to defend yourself against them (although it can mean they don't face prosecution). If someone attacks you, even if they are suffering from psychosis, mental disability, or are simply too young to know what they're doing, you still have the right to defend yourself. Their lack of intent to harm you can mean they are not found guilty of the crime, but in the moment you still have the right to self defense. Consent to sex is not consent to pregnancy. Consent to becoming pregnant is not consent to remaining pregnant, any more than consensually beginning to have sex with someone gives them the right to carry on having sex with you if you ask them to stop.
In regards to failed prophylactics/contraception: I consented to protected sex. This was intended to prevent conception. I can withdraw consent at any time.
I often argue along the lines of foreplay.  When a couple starts getting frisky, there's a good chance it could lead to sex.  Better than the chance of sex leading to a baby!  But just because it's a possible outcome doesn't mean I can't say no.  If I want to make out, I'm not consenting to sex.  It's rape if my partner continues on to sex because it's a natural risk of making out.
I find that engaging anti choicers is a waste of time and energy. They don't care about consent and purposefully twist pro-choice terminology to the point of total distortion.
If I may offer a pro-life explanation of why the arguments that you respond with seem to land on deaf ears. I know it seems clear and self-evident to you, but you have to be able to see it from the perspective of those you're trying to convince. All of the analogies I've seen to explain this situation fail to address the issue as pro-lifers see it. It's not even entirely about taking human life. The issue at hand is that pregnancy is what sex is naturally ordered towards; it's the biological purpose of the entire shebang. Don't misinterpret me here; I'm not saying that every or most or even many acts of intercourse will end in pregnancy; just that pregnancy is the natural end of intercourse. That is where all your analogies seems to be breaking down. A car accident is not the natural result of driving a car, STDs are not the natural result of sex, getting hit by a bus is not the natural result of crossing the street. Sure, we know that there's always the risk of these things and more happening when we engage in these activities, and you may even argue that it would be irresponsible not to take certain precautions (e.g., wearing seatbelts, not engaging in risky sexual behavior, looking both ways, etc). However, those things are not what should or naturally happen from those activities. If you're looking for a convincing analogy to make to hopefully change minds, you'd need one that entails a natural consequence of an action, that people nonetheless have the right to withdraw consent to, and then affect that withdrawal of consent.
Thank you! This honestly helps me understand how people think. I guess the difference in the pro-choice mind, at least for me, is that we have advanced enough as a species to control our own biological functions.
To be married you must have sex (or else it can be annulled in places), so according to them being married is consent to pregnancy? I don't want to die alone but i also dont want kids/to be pregnant
According to one person I was talking to, there are MILLIONS of sex acts that couples can engage in without inserting penis into vagina. Smh.
..but does that count for.. Umm.. Sealing the marriage or whatever it's called?
I'm pro-life, and I'm not sure why this is presented as an argument, it just seems like at attempt at a guilt trip.
I'm curious if you believe in a rape exception and/or IVF?
I'm sorry for the delayed reply, I just figured out today that the Android Reddit app doesn't notify you of replies. I really enjoy this sub and don't want to start anything. Its pro-choice sub and I'm not here to change your mind. Now to answer you question, I don't believe in a rape exception.  I think that every life is valuable no matter the circumstance of conception. However, I would also say that a rapist should either be castrated, given life sentence, or the death penalty. On IVF, I haven't given it much thought in this context, but I think that as a tool to help a couple that is having trouble get pregnant, I can't think of anything that I would contest. I'm sorry again for the delayed response. I'm currently looking at how to get push updates on my phone.
No need to apologize. I had to set it up to email notifications to me. I appreciate your position. If you think fetal life is precious the method of conception should be irrelevant. I don't understand pro life people who believe in a rape exception. You should probably do some research and thinking about IVF. It involves fertilizing multiple embryos and discarding ones that aren't needed. Lives are concieved and then ended. If you believe that right to life begins at conception you should be against IVF, logically.
I don't understand pro life people who believe in a rape exception either.  Thanks for sharing your thoughts on IVF. I'm going to do some research and consider a more formal position.
"They'll say, "you knew pregnancy was a risk when you had sex so you don't have a right to end it."  " My counter:  "Sure I do.  Women do have sex for other reasons besides reproduction, in case you didn't know."
I don't think prolifers would argue here. I think what they are saying is that they see it more like, you just agreed to donate an organ (say a kidney). The surgery is complete. Suddenly you realize that you want your kidney back. Well, sorry you can't withdraw consent at that point because doing so would put the recipient in harms way or kill them.

I bought 4. I recently got an IUD from my local Planned Parenthood and I've been trying to think of a way to show my appreciation for the nurse and doctor who did the insertion. They were so kind and empathic and gave me candy when my blood sugar was low. It hurt so much, but was such a positive experience. Thank you, u/brananan for sharing this!!!!
Thank you! ❤
100% of proceeds from these pink pussy hat stickers go to IPPF. Get one here if you're interested: http://www.ebay.com/itm/122334380628 Shipping is free worldwide!
Updated link: http://www.ebay.com/itm/122339459450
Either way you're going against God's supposed will, right?So this leads me to my next question. There are some religions that are opposed to certain forms of medicine because of its intervention. I imagine if someone from this background became president and tried to push his/her religious agenda of "anti medicine", that person would be shut down even by anti choice advocates. This is how I feel about Christians pushing their religious values onto women who do not want to carry a pregnancy. I understand people who are anti choice who dont wish to have abortions themselves. Just as I understand certain religions wishing to abstain from certain medical practices. I cannot understand, at all really, why they think its okay to push their religious beliefs on everyone else.If you think of a better way to formulate my thinking I would love to hear it. And if you can think of why my example is inapplicable, I would also like to hear that. Any feedback you have on why or how I should think of it differently would be appreciated!
I would assume the counter argument would be that their problem isn't using non-natural means to preserve or end life, just the action of ending a life at all.
By introducing God into the argument, I think your run the risk of opening the door to a subjective/objective morality argument. Which they may be all to happy to entertain.
Do you intent to use this argument with a religious prolifer? It obviously won't fly with a secular prolifer. If I might offer my insight as a Christian prolifer. Christians are forbidden from killing or taking a human life (the only exception would be self defense). We are also called to help or care for human beings so actions that nourishes life are usually looked upon as good. In this sense the action of abortion could be seen as going against God's plan or at least not participating in it. While medical intervention could be seen as an action that participates in His plan. Hope that helps.

Children?  Slaughtered? FFS
My fucking sides
Healthy babies can breathe and cry on their own, have good muscle tone, skin coloration, and motor reflexes. Fetuses are not healthy babies.
So someone sent me an undercover video of audio recordings of women trying to get ultrasounds from PP. I thought it was strange since I recalled PP advertising they did ultrasounds in certain locations. Did the people just not go to the right ones? Any idea what that's about?
A video of audio recordings? What exactly happened when they tried to get ultrasounds?
Told that they only do ultrasounds for abortions.
http://www.snopes.com/planned-parenthood-prenatal-care/
THANK YOU!
Dang, I love Snopes.

Holy shit. ... That's such unabashed indoctrination. A fifth grader doesn't know what an abortion is. You can't convince me that this is okay.
"That's such unabashed indoctrination. A fifth grader doesn't know what an abortion is." For Catholic anti-abortion/anti-contraception extremists, the indoctrination always begins early.  I remember having to go to both Catholic Sunday school and church as early as fourth grade.  I'm just glad I dumped all that baggage as a young adult, when I was finally independent from my parents.  Life was much better once I was free to make my own sexual/reproductive decisions and use birth control to avoid the burden of unwanted pregnancy.
Will I get downvoted because I have Catholic in my name? I hope not. I think if they can  choose abortion  and be taught sex ed. they can understand the issue. Maybe not 10. But certainly 12.
But do you believe that they are given a chance to understand the facts of the issue and make their minds up for themselves?
Yes, I do.

"Once this child is conceived, It is my duty to tend..." I.e. As a man I don't have to be pregnant but let me mansplain to you why I feel this "responsibility ".
Walsh is utter trash.
Ugh. Here it is via DoNotLink: https://donotlink.it/bQKp
Um, no. Women are "supposed to be" whatever they damn well please, and it's not for you toed taste that to them, Matt.
Nothing saddens me more than being a big fan of the comedian Matt Walsh (a.k.a. the hilarious Mike McLintock on Veep) and having to read/see bits and pieces of the conservative commentator (?)'s terrible opinions everytime I do an Internet search for stuff from the funny redheaded dude.
That's probably mild compared to some of the backward nonsense published on other conservative websites.  Walsh is definitely not the only scary one; there are several others. If you (generally speaking) do a Google search along the lines of "women belong at home" and "women should not have careers" (to name just two possibilities), you'll see quite a few sites saying much worse things about women than Walsh's stuff.
Worse things, yes, but they all come from the same warped ideology.
Yes indeed; warped and backward.
This makes me want to stop watching Veep
That's a different Matt Walsh.
No it's not
No, really. It is.
According to the court documents, a doctor involved who asked to be included in litigation; one James Hubert Hallford, supported this ruling because he believed the state was violating his rights as a licensed physician.Before you say it, I'm aware the contents of the court case involved a woman seeking abortion rights, talked in depth about abortion and gave various rulings specific to abortion.What people often fail to acknowledge though is that the most important part of the ruling itself has nothing to do with abortion.The highlight of the case was not about the freedom to have an abortion, it was instead regarding the powers a state has to intervene on decisions between a doctor and patient.Dr. Hallford claimed "they violated his own and his patients' rights to privacy in the doctor-patient relationship and his own right to practice medicine, rights he claimed were guaranteed by the First, Fourth, Fifth, Ninth, and Fourteenth Amendments." Ultimately he was deemed to not be suitable for the case, but his concerns were addressed by the ruling.So take a step back and try to fully grasp the complexity of this ruling.Yes, it granted women the right to have an abortion. But more importantly it made it clear that decisions regarding medical procedure are between a doctor and patient, and shall not be abridged or made public by the state unless there is a risk to public health at large.To quote an exert from the judicial summary "The decision vindicates the right of the physician to administer medical treatment according to his professional judgment up to the points where important state interests provide compelling justifications for intervention."If Roe V Wade is overturned, it's a foothold for state mandated medical involvement.All it would take is a group making a compelling argument regarding a medical procedure to take away your rights.It could mean banning/enforcing vaccinations based on public opinion, for the sake of the child in both cases.It could mean banning contraceptive surgeries such as vasectomies or IUDs because it hampers the possibility of an egg being fertilized.It could mean the state can install electronic chips inside of you because your physical health becomes a matter of public concern.It could mean making public a list indicating the STD status and history of all members of the public.It could mean an imposed civic duty to be an organ and blood donor unless deemed deferred for reasons relating to spiritual belief or disease.I'm going down a slippery slope here; I have faith in the supreme court's wisdom to not completely screw over the American people like that. I mean, people are reasonable, right? No judge in their right mind, in respect to the constitution, would rule that you have no right to privacy and control over your own body and life, right?Source for quotes: https://www.law.cornell.edu/supremecourt/text/410/113#writing-USSC_CR_0410_0113_ZO
I just want to give a word of caution about using vasectomies in discussions about abortion. It's not a good equivalent because the pro-life argument hinges upon the meeting of sperm and egg -- ta da, "life". I've yet to meet a pro-lifer who takes a moral stance against vasectomies or tubal ligation; if there's no fertilization, there's nothing to get the fanatics going. But in regards to forced sterilizations, that's a valid and historically-founded issue. I also strongly agree on adding vaccinations and STD history as privacy concerns. Anyone's medical procedures and history ought to concern two people: the patient, and the doctor. This is a good takeaway from Roe v Wade, one we could hammer home a bit more in debate.
I've had a pro-lifer tell me I'm selfish for choosing not to have children. She didn't mean abortion either. She meant that I, as a woman, was selfish for choosing not to have children. Not sure where someone like her stands on vasectomy, but she was certainly against tubal ligation, and all other forms of contraception, so I would assume she was anti-vasectomy. (She back peddled pretty fast after I told her about my medical problems)
"I've had a pro-lifer tell me I'm selfish for choosing not to have children.  She didn't mean abortion either.  She meant that I, as a woman, was selfish for choosing not to have children." It seems to me that this is a common theme among anti-abortion and anti-contraception extremists.  In their minds, women are "supposed to" be wives and mothers, little or nothing more.  Women who choose to be career women, to stay single (or married) and never have children, have something "wrong" with them.  And "selfish" is usually the most polite insult they use. I have no doubt whatsoever that if these extremists had their way, women would be back where we were in the 19th century; with no college/trade education, no careers or jobs, and of course no right to vote.  This is why we can never go back.
Anti abortion and anti contraception never made any sense to me. The only way to reduce abortion is to reduce unplanned, or rather, unwanted pregnancy. The only way to do that is with contraception. I just don't get it.

It's like they want a version of the 50s that never existed, where every woman is a dependent extra child instead of just the upper middle class.
I suggest you are confusing the stated outcome with the deeper reasons for including that part.  The court was trying to do two specific things - define our "right to privacy" because it is a little non-specific as written since the word "privacy" does not appear in the constitution and to push back the line of where the "state" can claim compelling interest because the compelling issues used to prevent abortion had changed in the preceding years. Nixon was kicking off the war on drugs in an attempt to control the black inner-city areas.  He was proposing some draconian policies.  The court used this part to slap him down and confirm the fourth amendment included all areas of privacy, not just within the home.  There used to be a compelling state interest to prevent both birth control and abortion.  The government had a policy of manifest destiny.  That policy required more people.  The goal of more people was considered compelling and laws were made with that in mind in many areas - medicine, marriage, immigration.  Now those state interests are less compelling and this part of the decision helped walk that back.


Abortion has killed over 59 million people in the US after the Roy Vs. Wade case. Hitler killed 6 million. That makes any pro choices about 9* worse than Hitler.
Perhaps, except that abortions kill fetuses, not persons or people.
Really if you spend maybe a minute thinking about it, murder is the same thing as preventing someone from living. Abortion is definitely preventing someone from living.
But preventing a human being from living isn't necessarily murder.  For example death row executions, killings in combat, and killings in self defense are not murder.  Abortion may involve preventing a human being from living, but it isn't murder because the fetus is not a person.

my body my abortion, and I can handle it at home https://www.law.berkeley.edu/research/center-on-reproductive-rights-and-justice/projects-and-initiatives/sia-legal-team Before thT the Del em. As clinics are forced into putting up obstacles to get women to delay, we women will discover expednited measures to achieve termination



The woman needs safe access to abortions and the right to choose. But besides the overly religious arguments for anti-abortion, the pro-life argument is clearly correct. This was realized after debating mostly nonreligious pro-lifers. It's time to acknowledge this and move on.
Are you going to provide some reasons for this assertion or just throw it out there and hope someone believes you?
If you don't know the common arguments in the abortion debate, I suggest you go back and review it. The only thing we have on our side is insults when we're stuck. The fetus is a future human being. Save the angry responses, they won the moral debate.
It's an interesting proposition, but if you're not going to back it up what's the point of putting it out there? And it's not true that all we have are insults, in pretty sure nearly every pro-choice person has thought deeply about their position. For me, it's true a fetus is a future human being, but it's not a person.
I'm putting it here because the pro choice side turns into a bit of a pompous circle jerk (as with any insular group on the net these days). I argue more with pro-choicers these days and they become baffled when I tell them I support safe access to abortion but recognize that the fetus is not the same as a cum stain and needs to be valued.
Well give us some arguments. Baseless propositions about morality have no reason to be agreed with.
The fetus is a future child, it's natural course is to become a human being. The mother ultimately needs to maintain her bodily autonomy. But the pro-choice's side's most popular argument is to lessen the value of the fetus - it's a clump of cells, it's a parasite, it's a worthless piece of shit to abort. That's up to you to decide, but the pro-life side got it right that the fetus is very valuable. Pro-life side is the winner of the moral debate and arguing it makes the pro-choice side look like assholes.
Enough ad hominem. Why does a life have value? Where does that value come from?
We as civilized people have decided that life has value. You're free to believe it doesn't, it makes you objectively look like an asshole.
Why does a life have value? Where does that value come from? Don't react so emotionally, it just makes you look uninformed.
Read my response. We decided life has value. It doesn't have to have value. We can decide that homicide is legal too if we want to.

How about the value of the mother's life? She's already in existence. She doesn't have the "potential" to become a human. She already is. How about we help her decide what is best for her life?
Unrelated to my OP. You are correct. The mother does not have the 'potential' to become a human she already is, and we should help her decide what's best for her life. The only thing is, I agree with this and it's got nothing to do with what I'm talking about it in this thread.
Don't say you are pro choice just to get me to read your uninformed and unsupported view
No one told you to read anything. And I'm pro-choice, I support the woman's right to choose.
By starting off with "I'm pro choice, but..." shows that you are not, in fact, pro choice. Prochoicers are completely devoted to the fact that a woman should have control of their body, and what you did is a common trick of pretending to be some self proclaimed word of reason, in an attempt to sway our opinions.
I agree 100%, that's why I'm pro-choice. What I'm not is the current far left extremists that the 'movement' has turned into. Abortion is a woman's choice, but not having one is more moral than having one. If you can't understand this, you're a brainwashed far-left extremist.
Who are you to say what's moral? Not everyone is Christian. Not everyone believes a zygote or fetus is a person.
Covered in the thread. I'm not Christian. And a zygote and fetus is not a person.
Let's say I agree with you and give the fetus, or "baby" if you like, s chance. to support a healthy pregnancy would mean discontinuing my meds. Due to the consequences of being off them whilst experiencing the consequences of continuing a pregnancy, Imight choose to self abort later and risk not only social ostracism but jail. The obvious choice in terms of guaranteeing my self preservation would be to not even try that and to get an abortion sooner. Having a baby requires huge changes in the pregnant persons medical regimen and lifestyle that necessarily put the interests of the "innocent" fetus first. If a fetus conceived through "carelessness"has personhood," so too do those from rape, incest, with Down's syndrome, with any defect with a chance of a first breath. If fetal and maternal life equate, why not give the fetus priority if it could live longer than the woman? As an individual decision, perhaps an individual woman could feel it was morally superior to sacrifice her own life for this, But requiring women as policy to perform it is morally repugnant, and granting exemptions for her in a fetus-centered world is morally inconsistent.
Then you wouldn't be agreeing with me, I'm pro-choice, abort the baby if you need to.
Gotcha. But your original point was that pro life has the moral upper ground over a woman's right to choose abortion. That "higher ground" assumes that fetuses are innocent human life and should morally force into temporary subjugation  the needs  of the person carrying it.
It's better for the fetus to survive than to die. At this basic point, the pro life movement has the moral victory. In practicality, this is difficult as you can't force a woman to give birth.
But exactly why is it better for the fetus to survive than to die?
Because being alive is better than being dead. There are zero laws passed in the advanced world that encourages death over life. Your response will be that the fetus is a parasite and a tumor and should be killed anyway. That's harmful and hateful language that drives people away from pro-choice. It's not a tumor, it's a future human being, most pro-choicers outside of this far left bubble acknowledge that.
But why is being alive better than being dead? Would you say every human being living on this Earth feel the same way? What is the 'advanced world'? What are these laws and what are they based on? What laws encourages life over death? What gives you the idea that I would make a statement like that? You do not even know who I am nor what my stance is. I haven't made any position in this thread whatsoever. There has to be a arguable reason why some people would compare a possibly unwanted fetus to a parasite. Is there not? So with that logic, wouldn't you say that the eggs that we eat could have been future chickens?
The overwhelming consensus in the world is that being alive is better than being dead. Hospitals exist to cure, schools exist to educate so people stay alive, traffic laws are in place so people don't crash and die. No institution exists - private or public -  for the sole purpose of killing people besides prisons in countries with capital punishment, and these places are very controversial. The advanced world is the developed world - America, Canada, France, Japan, Singapore, etc. The following laws are examples of virtually every law that encourages life over death - Laws against murder Laws against dangerous driving Laws against assisted suicide for healthy individuals Laws against assault, which could lead to death Laws against infanticide  Virtually every law that is passed in the first world Because you are here, and people in these far left pro-choice bubbles talk like that. And you responded to my OP as an opponent. Yes, they're assholes. I'm not a vegan. I believe all meat is valid if it's consumed and not wasted.
That's what I absolutely hate about pro-choicers: they've turned the tables. Mothers no longer want to die for their children. Children should die for the mother.
Your mentality that "children should die for the mother," your terms, is more true for IVF clients who discard their "spare" embryos than for women ending their pregnancies without having the option to spare the embryo in that process.  Donating embryos created through IVF does not create further risk to a woman as pregnancy does.  Further IVF is never an accident. It is the deliberate creation of  multiple embryos at once, hand-picking some but not others, and discarding some or all.   If you believe life starts at conception, then you logically believe that most IVF attempts represent a mother who deliberately killed dozens of her children at once with each IVF attempt. Some moms who'd die for their child's life still might not succeed at parenting. Look at your state adoption photolist. You'll see children in wheelchairs and on feeding tubes, teenagers with multiple rage-related issues, large sibling groups. Few under 3. No babies. If mothers are supposed to die for their children, that surmises that they should be willing to do anything for their children. If you define "child" as a fertilized egg and its sequelae, then logically the rights of the latter should prevail. This would mean not only mandating that all embryos be implanted and almost all pregnancies continue, but that women be policed to ensure they are not engaging in potential fetus-harming behaviors, and be vetted at least as much as adoptive couples are before taking the child home. Finally, if mothers are supposed to die for their children, and you define "child" as a fertilized egg on, no exceptions can be logically made for rape, incest, fetal anomalies or life of the mother in any case where the fetus may survive birth. For clarification. Is all this above what op and you advocate as the Greater moral good? If not, why not
Just because a fetus has potential to be a person does not make it immoral to end its existence. I believe it's much more humane to the "potential child" to euthanize it rather than force it to be born into a world that didn't want it. There are people who think it's morally wrong to euthanize a dog, even if it's dying or in severe pain. Most people disagree, and think it's perfectly moral to kill a dog in certain situations. Morals are personal. You cannot claim that one position has the objective moral high ground, there simply is no such thing.
Also morally your could argue that women should have unprotected sex at every opportunity as they are 'denying' a potential baby. Obviously this reduces women to vessels
It's this kind of ridiculous statement that makes the pro-choice side look childish. It's better to 'euthanize' than to allow it to live? Are you fucking serious? It's better to let it live. Just because we're pro-choice, it doesn't mean you say whatever ridiculous thing to try to make a point. Morals are personal yes, but the consensus in the western world is that life is valuable and allowing the fetus to be born is at its core more moral than aborting it. But, in practical terms, we have to allow the woman to choose. Abortion is not a good thing, nor is it in any way better than allowing the fetus to be born.
Why is it better to let a child live with a mother who didn't want it, in poverty, or in an institution? Why is a miserable life better than no life? I don't think it's a ridiculous idea at all. I disagree that the western world has come to the consensus that abortion is immoral.
Then, you should be pushing for safe suicides for everyone who wants it. I'm not a bitter pessimist, as a middle school teacher, I believe every child has potential and a good future.
Once that child is born, I agree with you. But I'm not going to agree that it's morally better to bring a pregnancy to term than abort it.
It's these ridiculous statements the pro-choice side says that enrages and galvanizes the pro-life side. It's better to have the baby than to abort it. There's no question here and the only reason why people like you go that far is because you consider this an 'us' vs. 'them' battle and you have to win everything. Don't be ridiculous, abortion is not a good thing, it's an awful thing that should only be legal due to practical reasons. "Abortion is awesome and its more moral than letting the fetus be born." Fucking ridiculous.
I never said it was awesome, just the lesser of two evils in some cases. It's not always an awful thing.
It's always an awful thing. Being unable to admit this clear thing is an indication this is all just to score points rather finding a peaceful solution to a bad thing. Society is greater than your ego, don't drag everyone down.
Preventing pregnancy in the first place would be best, but I disagree that abortion is always an awful thing. If my IUD ever fails I plan to get an abortion. I'd prefer not having to, and it may be physically uncomfortable, but I wouldn't call it an awful thing. Being forced to be pregnant is much more awful than an abortion in my opinion. Stop acting like your opinion on morality is the be all end all and that every rational person has to agree with you.
agreed But trying in vein to paint abortion as a good thing is nothing but an ego stroke to try to score points against your perceived enemy. They call the pro-choice side 'pro-abortion' because of people like you. Pro choice is not pro abortion, quick dragging everyone down.

Actually the consensus in the first world is prochoice , you can see by the list of if countries and their abortion laws . Ireland and Poland are the exceptions http://worldabortionlaws.com
You don't comprehend my argument at all, you don't want to. Your only desire is to stick it to the prolifers. The practical consensus is prochoice, the moral consensus is prolife. Everybody in every advanced nation prefers life over death.
Explain your argument in more detail then. Prolife in my understanding means banning abortions with a few exceptions. I pointed out that many Western nations are not 'prolife' in that way, but many have healthcare free at the point of delivery which can be considered 'prolife'.
Pro life is a Christian term indicating they support life - whether it's the fetus, human, the environment , or society. Conservative Christians and pro-choice extremists alike now believe it means to - and nothing else. Western nations agree with the christian principle of pro-life, they pass laws to protect lives of people, the environment, society, and virtually everything. Abortion is kept legal for practical purposes, but in western, modern thinking, it is not considered a moral right as it goes against the support of life that's present in every advanced nation on earth.
Thanks for expanding your viewpoint and responding. I must agree to disagree. I am English, and most of us poll in favour of paying towards welfare state and the  NHS ( protecting lives of born humans) while only 7% want abortion banned, even though 44% believe life starts at conception https://yougov.co.uk/news/2013/02/14/opinions-abortion/
I specifically told you several times I have no desire to ban abortions and said it should be kept safe and legal.
Prolife folk don't generally boycott Ivf clinics where dozens of simultaneous "abortions" go on. Nor are they demonstrating to adopt third trimester trisomy 13/18/21/microcephalic/dandy walker kids by promising to assume legal/financial if they are delivered alive, which is possible in some cases. The distinction here, op, is that with both Situations we are looking at many older affluent women who wanted to get pregnant and have often invested to get one or two natural children, at risk too of having kids with horrific defects. The prolife focus does not on either scenario. It suggests, against their precepts, rather, that life is worth protesting over when sex created it and it looks normal and the mom isn't well, quite as affluent as Laura Bush, I think that's immoral.
The leaving of a fetus to take its direct next step and be born is more moral than killing it in today's overall moral climate where life is more valued than not. This nonstop attempt to skirt around this basic fact is a clue that some on the pro choice side is more interested in trying to win an argument and sticking it to conservatives than anything else.
For argument's sake I shall assume ops premise: That a potential person exists and morally should be allowed to develop. While superficially attractive, there are several dilemmas: A potential life begins potentially at fertilization, suggesting in vitro fertilization is immoral for those who arent Octomom. Further, the practice of selective reduction do not elicit moral outrage as does that of a woman who has become pregnant through sex, even though fewer embryos are typically created. A pregnant woman has seven weeks before the door to medication-induced abortion closes enemy though that window has been safely extended throughout the world. Thats the time she had to come up with $600, travel possibly hundreds of miles to clinics with 2-week appointment backups and then wait out the state mandated waiting period. if she doesn't succeed within weeks, that cost will be $3k and restricted to even rarer clinics.  And if the pregnsncy continues, she may have to continue it hooked to life support while dead, risk being locked up for behavior that could harm the fetus, and if she self aborts or attempts suicifr could be charged with murder. Your morAl assumption is now robbing women as a class of their 8th amendment rights. moms who Invest 9 months willingly or not face parenthood or adoption and most are going to keep it due to their forced investment if not manipulated by paps who pay for everything as long as baby seems healthy and mom gives baby up, ensuring much sense of loss for the mom and baby through life. Here's where i see your reasoning, but at the moral cost of denying women constitutional rights, i don't thing it's moral to make this the default option. Women cAn abort the 3rd trimester if they have fetuses  with anomaly in certAin states. and of those some could go full term and live harsh and short lives that they won't suffer through. Is euthanasia better than a birth ending in suffering, seizures, suffocation? Morally, I'd have to say yes. 
The path of a human begins at conception for everyone except for hard left pro abortion extremists. Your post is basically twisted justification. You can have it. But if you firmly believe the fetus is not a baby, why aren't you on the front lines to change murder laws that charge murderers of pregnant women with double homicide? That's severely unjust, as they only killed one person. It's hypocrisy like that that's moving people like me away from supporting you.
Such laws made possible the prosecution of women who attempted self-abortion, were grilled while accessing care so they would not bleed to death, and were thrown in jail. Women have been incarcerated so that they would give birth to drug-free babies. The original intent was to protect pregnant women from being attacked in DV because they were pregnant. They weren't intended to be used against pregnant women themselves.
Doesn't answer the question. Why should the murderer of a pregnant woman face double homicide charges? This goes against fundamental human rights, the murderer only killed one person.
I agree.
Well, go and fight for the prisoners' rights. There are people languishing in prisons charged double time when they only murdered one person.
Trapping women into motherhood. Yep,nothing more moral than that.
I wonder how long it will take for the argument next to this post will resort to Godwin's Law.
One day. Hitler.
Pro choice people (or at least the ones I've talked to on reddit), fucking suck at debating. Pro-life have the moral argument, but pro-choicer's has more of a stand on actual practicality. Yet the pro-choice side seems desperate to try and prove themselves as morally superior, makes them look bad and doesn't help their argument.
Correct me if I am wrong, but did you not post on this sub previously arguing the prolife side? Is that correct, if so what changed your mind as you don't seem to be  behoven to the prochoice bodily autonomy argument
Not entirely sure I would call myself pro-choice or pro-life tbh. I've always used to be pro-choice no question at all, like it was a default. But the more I thought about it the more I started to sympathise with the pro-lifers, the bottom line is abortion is evil. I don't think I would ever really call myself "pro-life". (I'd probably get disowned). It's nothing to do with body autonomy, that's just a terrible argument for abortion. The bottom line is the alternative is worse (unsafe backstreet abortions and shit), ultimately I reckon the most moral stance is to allow abortions but try and indirectly prevent them by having a strong welfare state - one can only dream.
So your a pragmatist, prochoice does encompass people like yourself, and those that value pregnancy differently. Enjoy your weekend .
You too buddy
thumbs up to you, the need to stick it to the pro-lifers have some pro-choicers going way too far, abortion is not good and it's better to not have one, but it should be kept safe and legal because it's the practical and realistic option
What options are available during the blastocyst stage or earlier, but after sex obviously, to prevent birth? If my understanding is correct, this would be week 4 and earlier since last menstrual period.
By "to prevent birth," you mean an abortion? The issue between weeks 2 and 4 is that most women don't actually know they're pregnant at this point, and even pregnancy tests often aren't sensitive enough to detect a very early pregnancy. Remember that weeks 0-2 are really theoretical, since we count gestation from the last period, not from the point of ovulation.
Do I mean abortion? sure if that's what it would be called. I just wasn't sure if it would be called that so early. So there's the morning after pill for potentially up to 72 hours and then nothing till about week five?
Yes, that would be an abortion. The morning after pill works to prevent fertilization and implantation, which is why it can only be used early on. It does not cause abortion of a pregnancy that has already been fertilized and implanted. After that, we do not know whether fertilization has occurred and whether a woman is pregnant until we see one of two signs - a rising beta-hCG or a visible pregnancy on ultrasound. hCG usually isn't easily detectable until week 4-5, and a pregnancy becomes visible on US at week 5-6. So at that point, we can diagnose pregnancy and move onto abortion if that's the woman's wish.
I see. Thanks!
The morning after pill prevents ovulation. Sperm can live in the Fallopian tubes for a couple of days, so usually they swim up there and wait until the egg is released. This doesn't happen at the blastocyst stage, but before fertilization. The morning after pill stops the egg from being released. So fertilization doesn't happen. Non-hormonal IUDs prevent implantation, which does occur at the blastocyst stage. Neither of these is an abortion because neither of them terminates a pregnancy. Less then half of fertilized eggs are capable of implanting into a uterine lining. Pregnancy requires the blastocyst to successfully implant.

Yes, of course. I agree with all that. But let’s not pretend a label is a position statement or an entire manifesto, ok? It's just a fucking label. Every group and organization needs one. They’ve got theirs; we’ve got ours. And they’re a great convenience to have. But I saw a ‘great’ pro-life argument the other day that said if we were really pro-choice, we’d let babies choose to live. And that they were really pro-woman because half the babies they saved  were women. This is low-hanging fruit. This is sidewalk debate tactic 101. Let’s not pretend a label is a philosophy that we can take them to task for not exemplifying in every aspect of their lives. Let’s just not. There are real issues. These are word games.
"I'm pro life, which is why I'm against sexual education and contraception. Why would I want someone to be able to have freedom to choose when or if they want children."
'Pro-life? Go explore Mars!'
Which is an appropriate level for many anti-abortion people.
Yes it's true that it is word games, but words matter. If you asked someone who has no idea what pro-life/choice mean, it seems obvious that life is more important than choice. If you have no life, you have no choice. I think it's time progressives reclaim "pro-life", since focus on healthcare, and specifically reproductive care ultimately saves more lives.
I found it fascinating that when the hpv vaccine was first approved in  2006 Governor Perry of Texas was the first one to make it a required vaccine for schools. He said he did this because he's pro-life and this vaccine would save lives. Unfortunately he was attacked by conservatives who did their typical "this will encourage promiscuous behavior" bullshit proving most people who try to claim pro-life are in reality just anti-sex

Source? Abortion isn't punishing the fetus.  It's not about innocence or guilt.  It's about the fact that the fetus does not have the mother's consent to inhabit her body.  With no intent it can't be malicious, but it is violating its mother. Have you ever actually done the research to ask why women get abortions?  I think it would be eye-opening for you.
Did you know that pregnancy complications are the #6 cause of death for women of childbearing age? Do you think it is at all acceptable to force someone to take that risk? Do you think abortion should be allowed in cases of rape or incest?If yes, why? Why is that baby any less worthy of life than any other? If no, do you really want more people to be falsely accused of rape? Because that's what you're going to get. I'm not anti-life. I don't want babies to be aborted. But I think that having the choice matters. I think that choosing to constrain all of your actions, your food choices, the medicines you take, is important to women's mental health. There is a study that I like to bring up in these sort of things. It found that for women who were able to choose the method of birth, IE choose to have an epidural, or not, choose to have a 'standard' birth or a water birth, or squatting birth, etc, is very strongly correlated with maternal bonding and maternal happiness. And that's just the method of birth. Taking away their choice to birth at all almost assuredly has negative correlations to maternal health and well being, and by extension, fetal health and well being. Being able to choose the way your own life and your own body are treated is extremely important. And while I would like to live in a world where no baby is ever aborted, I still support a woman's right to choose.
The number 6 cause?  How about 1 through 5?  I didn't say I'm against all abortions.  But the vast majority of abortions are performed because the child is considered an inconvenience.  The vast majority of abortions are performed for poor reasons.  You shouldn't be able to take away life because the condom broke or the boyfriend left you.
You really need to do your research before making judgments about what people should and shouldn't be able to do to defend their own bodies
I see you continue to fail to provide a source that the 'vast majority of abortions are performed for poor reasons'. I think that's a statistic that you don't want to look up because you're afraid you'll find an answer you don't like, that won't support your previous biases, and you don't want to have to do that.
https://www.guttmacher.org/sites/default/files/pdfs/journals/3711005.pdf Page 8, first paragraph of second column.
"financial and emotional responsibility to provide for existing children without adequate resources makes it too hard for some women to care for another child" You would force these women to have another child, even though they won't be able to care for it? Even though it will lower the quality of life of her current children, who might have to face food and home insecurity, in order to have a baby brother or sister that they would most likely resent? Also, is it the government's place to decide whether a woman is 'worthy enough' of protecting herself, her family, her children? Why is one reason any worse than any other? Because you don't like the way it makes you feel? Should the government make regulations to appease your feelings?
Again, you're talking about convenience.  No I don't want anyone to have financial difficulties.  But more so I want to protect innocent life.  So if I have to make the trade off,  it's life. Yes it is the governments place.  The government has laws in place to punish other immoral actions such as murder, rape, etc.  Should that not be regulated by the government to "appease" me?  Furthermore, the government is funding abortion with taxpayer money.  So of course everyone should have a say.
By the way, over 600 women a year die from pregnancy related complications. Not 18. https://www.cdc.gov/reproductivehealth/maternalinfanthealth/pregnancy-relatedmortality.htm So what should the punishment be for having an abortion? Jail time? How long? What about the children that are being left behind because their mothers are in jail, where will they go? CPS? Abortions ARE NOT funded by taxpayer money. That is propaganda. You have no idea what you're talking about. None at all. And you're wanting to take away the rights of other people while wallowing in your ignorance.
Do other pro-choicers really believe this is solid logic? People who are pro-life believe that humanity's priority right, the one that undergirds all other rights, is the right to life. Advocating for the right to life doesn't mean opposing quality of life, and outside of the abortion context, nobody argues that it does. And of course, before one can have any needs like the ones listed in the essay (i.e. healthcare, universal basic income, education), one must survive in the womb without being intentionally poisoned and/or dismembered.
https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=absW29h8KGA I sleep easy at night.  Will you?
Excellent, especially the last paragraph.  Thanks for posting!
I'm glad you liked it. Feel free to share on social media and/or recommend on medium.
The argument boils down to when you believe "life" starts.  You believe it's when the child makes a journey down the birth canal and i believe it's much earlier.  A woman can't kill a 1 month old just because she no longer "consents" to it. That would be considered outrageous by almost all social standards and you would go to prison for murder, as it should be. But if a woman does it 4 or 5 months earlier not only is it okay, it should be funded by taxpayers and considered a right?  That seems backwards to me.
If it's literally living off of her body? Then yes. I don't care when you think life begins, nobody has the right to force another person to keep them alive with their body.

I think you are trying to debate whether you or I morally should get an abortion. The question really should be how can we reduce the number of abortions that occur? The answer is not so-called pro-life legislation that closes clinics and makes birth control harder to obtain. The answer is giving women access to healthcare and reproductive education. If you oppose abortion, you should not be in favor of the types of restrictions the pro-life movement is always trying to pass.
The issue is that among pro lifers planned parenthood and abortion have become synonymous.  There are stories of women going into planned parenthood and being encouraged to have an abortion.  If they maintained their current function and stopped performing abortions, most pro lifers would have no problem with planned parenthood.  I'm all for std testing, free birth control and real parenthood planning and I have no problem funding it with my taxes.
YOU may be okay with STD testing, free birth control, etc. but the pro-life movement as a whole is not. I can respect someone's stance against abortion in general, but if you are truly against abortion, you should not vote for politicians who use the pro-life movement to cut access to those things. I have friends with a similar opinion as you who try to justify voting for someone like Mike Pence or Rick Perry by saying, well, at least he's pro-life. Except that the policies they support do nothing to reduce abortion rates. What the Do accomplish is increase teen pregnancy and STD rates. So one last time, I have nothing against someone who is anti-abortion, but PLEASE consider what supporting pro-life politicians and policies actually means.
People seem to forget that having a baby is dangerous. Pregnancy complications are the #6 killer of women of childbearing age in the United States. That is with abortion being (mostly) freely available. Maternal death and strong pro-life laws are directly correlated. Not to mention the fact that your brain is completely restructured, which means that the old, pre-pregnancy woman is dead. She is never coming back. Vaginal and anal tearing, incontinence, osteoporosis, all are very, very common complications of pregnancy. It IS a debilitating, medical condition. You are making light of the very real sacrifice that women must go through in order to birth a baby. It's incredibly insulting to the women who will suffer for the rest of their lives because they made the sacrifice to bring their baby into the world.
18 deaths per 100,000 births in the USA.  I'll take the risk.  I'm not saying it's easy giving birth or being a mother.  I have great respect for mothers.  But none of the reasons you listed are worth taking away innocent life.  The child has a 50 percent chance of being a female.  She has rights too
You can take the risk if you want. You have no business forcing other people to. The fetus had all the same rights as an adult, but also the same limitations. Just as you are not allowed to use my organs without permission, neither does a fetus
Every single person on this earth including you is here because of a mother.  It's one thing to decide to not have children.  There are many methods to achieve this - the simplest being abstinence. That is absolutely your right.  But to kill a fetus because it doesn't have your "permission" to live is a very selfish and perverse view on life.
That's your opinion. It is more perverse to me to force people to carry an unwanted child to term and go through labor against her will. You inflicting your beliefs on others is selfish. I'm in no way preventing others from having children. No contraceptive is 100% effective, a lot of people can't even afford contraceptive or afford the type that is right for them, and also, rapists don't always wear condoms. If you get pregnant and don't want to have an abortion, cool. But to not even to try to understand why access to safe and legal abortions is necessary is sad, selfish, and ignorant. A lot of women abort wanted as well as unwanted babies. To denigrate them is wrong. If you want fewer abortions to happen I'll see you handing out free contraceptives and plan b pills to everyone that needs them, as well as teaching about consent and working to prevent rape. Til then, keep your small mindedness to yourself
You know nothing about my beliefs.  I am not against necessary abortion or contraceptives.  I am all for supporting it as a tax payer.  But I am against the type of abortion you're describing, which is about 75% of abortions.  I don't believe life should be taken because it's inconvenient, and I sure as hell don't believe in paying for it with taxpayer money. Roe v. Wade may stand, but that doesn't mean taxpayers should foot the bill.  That's why pro life supporters want to defund planned parenthood.  It's the easiest way to reduce abortions.  Unfortunately std testing, contraceptives and other positive services will be more difficult to obtain as a result.
Tax payers DO NOT foot the bill. This is propaganda. Literally propaganda, and you fell for it. Money may be 'fungible', but every single dollar that goes towards abortions is accounted for. Your stance is evil. You aren't willing to go through the proper legal channels to have abortion outlawed, so you just want to go through every twisted path to get what you want. You literally don't care about who is hurt as a result of your actions. It's disgusting, and it's malevolent. It's evil. The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
Define necessary abortion? Is it necessary if there is a 50 percent chance of death or only a 50 percent chance of permanent disability acceptable? What about only a 49.999 percent chance of partial but permanent paralysis? The human right to consent and self defense is not taken away or given based on statistical probabilities. It is for the individual to decide for a reason. I want to ask you, when a woman is pregnant, who owns the rights to her lungs, heart, legs, blood, brain, uterus, vagina and liver? The fetus? The government on behalf of the fetus? Or her only after she proves she is in sufficient enough statistical danger by some kind of pregnancy court sum doctor panel that has reviewed her case for 2 months?
That's great if YOU want to take the risk. You think you should force adult women, women with husbands, and families who love them, and possibly other children who need their mother, you think you know better what's best for them and their family? You think its appropriate to say that you're okay if a woman dies while pregnant, because her life doesn't matter? At least not as much as an unborn fetus, that has no consciousness and no feelings of pain. Ok then. You said that there were no risks to pregnancy. Now you're admitting that 18 people die every year due to pregnancy complications. So which is it?
Most assaults are not fatal as well. Do you have to "almost die" to get the permission to exercise your bodily autonomy? If you have respect for mothers, why not pay them if you intend to conscript them to endure pregnancy against their will. Even the lowest private bucket hauler in the army is paid for their service and gets a pension or disability if they are harmed. What is it about an average of 6 weeks recovery that flys past your head with regards to pregnancy? When was the last time you bled internally for 3 weeks from something? (Thats the average btw, for the healing of the detachment of the placenta from the uterus after birth.) Innocence or guilt has nothing to do with the inherent right to self defense for all individuals. You cannot say a person has no right to their own body as long as the person threatening them is unfit for trial. That is highly immoral and backwards. So is a potentially winning lottery ticket more valuable than a winning ticket? Are you saying a 50/50 coin toss is more valuable than an actual win? Do you understand that 50/50 is literally a split even bet? What you mean is a potential woman is more valuable than an actual woman. That checks out.
Define inconvenient using an example that isn't pregnancy. What do you mean by inconvenient? Do you mean waiting in line for the DMV? Walking your dog? Making your food? Pregnancy is not just "inconvenient." Does that make forcing them against their will okay? The average man and women know next to nothing about what pregnancy is and does except some very basic concepts like "it grows there" and "I'll get morning sickness" they don't know whats going on until it happens to them. That's because women's reproductive functions are still an ongoing taboo. Secondly, when women are in fact given the option to mark more than one reason as to why they are having an abortion most also mark for their health. Because everyone wants to imagine having it all and no one wants to think "it could happen to me" most people do not self-report their greatest fears. This is true from everything to driving cars to men drafted in war. My question to you is who ever has a duty to retreat from something inside their own body? How is it not discrimination to single out women and deny them their bodily autonomy?



You take a six week old fetus and take It out of the mother it won't survive. It's literally a parasite. I'm not talking about leaving it alone for a day or a week and it not surviving because no one is feeding it. I'm talking about literally just taking it out the the mom, it immediately "dies." At 8/9 months if you can take it out, it's fully formed, and will have a good quality of life and survive outside of the mother, then yeah, it is now a baby. Unless the mother's health is at risk. Why kill a fully grown woman with all kinds of life experience and people who care about her for a fetus/baby who was just born and may not even survive itself. That's just wrong.
Very few abortions occur because the mothers health is at risk.  The vast, vast majority of abortions are because the woman thinks she is not ready for kids, birth control failure, the father is not in the picture, or they are done having kids.  None of those reasons are good reasons to take away life.  With modern science child bearing is relatively safe. Furthermore, if you stop feeding and taking care of an infant it will die as well.  In a sense they are parasites too....
That's what I just said, that I'm not talking about a baby, because you still have to feed it. It's not attached the woman and it still survives. You can't do that with a fetus up until 8/9 months. Edit: And what am I supposed to do? I never want kids and every doctor I've been to has laughed in my face when I asked for a tubal. If my birth control fails, I would literally rather die than carry a fetus to term. At 6 weeks it's like the size of a bean. I don't think that qualifies as a person. But that's why I'm pro choice. If you believe that life begins at conception or close to it, then by all means please don't have an abortion. Keep that baby and love it and give it a good life. And it's my choice to not have to do that.


Is it an 'innocent unborn baby' or is it breakfast ?
Hello Friends,With everything going on in the US I have been trying to arm myself with some facts around the reduction of female suicides and accidental deaths (due to back alley abortions) due to the legalization of abortion.I am having trouble finding this information because every source I can seem to find is from an anti-choice publication.Do you all have any sources and or statistics (preferably with sources) that you would recommend?
Try this https://www.guttmacher.org/gpr/2003/03/lessons-roe-will-past-be-prologue

Sure, ‘life is winning'. But they’re never gonna win and Pence knows it. And the Koch brothers know it. If ‘life’ really wins, there’ll be no more reason to vote for a Pence or a Trump or Bush or Reagan and then the Dems might make the Koch brothers and other .01%’s pay some taxes. This is what they need. Young Repubicans with the political memory of a fruit fly. This time they’re really gonna win! Like every other time…
Life is winning as long as the person living that life is not a refugee or Muslim!

Did you drop the /s?
He didn't- the guy you responded to posts to Altright and the red pill. I have no clue what the hell he's doing in this sub.

That population often is lower class, and the right's refusal to help that group leads them to vote with the party concerned with them after birth.
I'm on the right, and I'm completely in favor of helping them not reproduce.
If by help you mean proper education and access to contraception and health services, then we're on the same page.
Well none of that is supported by the right, so he's not.
Already done, so not a real issue. I just want progressives to stop having kids. As a humanitarian, I would prefer they simply sterilize themselves. But if they have to go the route of paying an abortionist to rip their child apart and suck it out with a glorified Shop-Vac, that's okay, too.
Oh, you don't have any critical points to make. Back under the bridge with you!


Northern Ireland? This could get interesting.
Yes, it's the only part of the UK that has such restrictive rules concerning abortion.
It is that it seems to crucially rest on a presumption that a parent has no moral obligation for the welfare of their child.Yes, you can make the argument that a fetus relies on its mother's body to survive, and so the mother can choose to cease lending the use of her organs to the fetus at any stage. But if we are to concede this, don't we also have to conclude that no parent has any obligation to look after or nurture their child? Why would the same philosophy not apply once the child is born?It seems that forcing a parent to provide for a young child is just as much an infringement on bodily autonomy and liberty than forcing a mother to carry a fetus to term, if that goes against the parents will. If a parent does not wish to expend effort into caring for their baby, should they not be allowed to let it starve and die?Of course, in society we accept that a parent is by default given responsibility over their child, and so any parent who did such a thing would be charged with negligence and deemed a monster.But it seems somewhat inconsistent that the same legal expectation of responsibility is not given to a fetus, and instead the fetus is treated as a complete stranger which the mother has absolutely no obligation towards. I'm finding it hard to reconcile the two.Thoughts?
You are equating a tiny embryo with a fully developed and cognitively aware child which is not something that the pro-choice philosophy does. Pro-choice typically believes that a fetus does not have the ability to suffer, while a child, once born, does.
It's pretty questionable whether a newborn baby is any more capable of experiencing suffering than a well developed fetus. The issue isn't centralised on suffering at any rate; if it was, we'd be fine with killing young babies as long as we did it in a painless manner (which we can easily do). It's about the mother's right to bodily autonomy and personal choice. And I'm failing to see how forcing someone to provide for a child is any less an infringement on that than forcing a mother to "provide" her uterus to a child.
Abortion isn't legal for a well developed fetus. Most abortions are done in the first trimester where the fetus is smaller than a lime. And most abortions after that would be done for a fetal anomaly. But if that wasn't your point, then I'm not sure what it is. Why would a mother have a child that they have no intention to provide for? That's why we support the choice for abortion, so that all babies come into this world wanted. But no one is technically forced to care for a child they don't want, they can give it up for adoption, or like you said if there are signs of neglect, they would be charged and taken away by a social worker. I'm sorry I'm not understanding your question.
I think OP means either in situations where someone cannot make an adoption plan or for the time it takes to make the plan. Both situations still require the parent to take care of the child. It seems like it is a violation of the mother's bodily autonomy to force this duty of care.
I'll admit I don't know much about the adoption process but I thought you can always just leave a child with a safe haven, like a fire station. A caring mother might want to wait until a family is lined up to leave her child, but a woman that doesn't want to can give up her child instantly if she wants to. I don't really understand why there would be any situation where a mother is forced into duty of care.
"A caring mother might want to wait until a family is lined up to leave her child, but a woman that doesn't want to can give up her child instantly if she wants to." That's what I thought as well.  Can't a woman who was forced to stay pregnant and give birth but never wanted to care for a child sign away her parental rights at the hospital and walk out without taking the baby?  I don't know what the Safe Haven laws are from one state to another, but I think that option should always be available.
I see what your saying but I think they are talking more of looking at a moral hypothetical. For example, imagine a situation where a parent could not relinquish responsibility (a dad stuck in a snowbound cabin type scenario). Another example could be a mother giving birth in a back alley or some other location and she literally leaves her child to die (I think she would be criminally charged. So it seem that there is some spectrum of bodily autonomy as opposed to it being absolute. I think that is OPs point anyway.
'Bodily integrity is the inviolability of the physical body and emphasizes the importance of personal autonomy and the self-determination of human beings over their own bodies.' - wiki That right of self-determination over one's own body allows a woman to decline to continue a pregnancy. When a baby is born its needs can be met by (or shared with) another care-giver or by the state if the mother is unwilling or unable. That option is not available to a fetus. Only the mother can gestate. Or choose not to.
Read about safe haven laws.  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Safe-haven_law I would argue that a lot of things change with relation to consciousness and personhood before and after birth.
Absolutely! Fortunately, thanks to abortion, we live in a society that isn't overrun with unwanted children, so there are adoptive parents and state institutions that are willing and able to take on the duty instead. We put an obligation on parents to drop their child off somewhere it will be cared for. This is a vastly lower obligation than parenthood and almost insignificant compared to risking your life and health through pregnancy. In a society where there were more unwanted children than could be cared for, I wouldn't have a problem euthanizing some at birth. Abortion is a vastly better option, though.
Nope. Because one is about bodily autonomy and the other is about child guardianship. Two completely different arguments. If you are talking about child support payments that too is a completely separate argument. Besides a parent does already have the option (in most cases) to accept or rescind consent to guardianship.
A clump of cells is not a child.



The Netherlands can spend there money however they want to.
Their* And- yeah, to give woman the right to have an abortion if they want to, isn't that awesome!? God I hate trump. He's the devil in a mans pants. I'm really sorry for you guys over there in america- this disgusting dude is going to backfire so goddamn soon (I mean it already started. So..)
The issue isn't 'theyre taking away my abortion rights in the west' it's 'You aren't going to pay for foreign abortions anymore?' Why is it Americans responsibility to finance women electing to have a medical procedure in other countries
Because why the fuck not! It should be EVERY countries duty to pay or look out for this. There are SO MANY women dying because of "the "not my circus; not my monkeys"-syndrome. It should be in everyone's mind to think about that and help people not dying because of missing money. I'm sorry but ..


Very interesting article (at least, for someone who has never really watched L&O). The bit about violence against abortion providers I found particularly interesting; how in the world can you "rip stories from the headlines" whilst simultaneously changing the biggest, most fundamental fact about the perpetrators' motivations? It reminds me a little bit of "Orange Is the New Black", where Tiffany (Pennsatucky) turns out to not be an anti-abortion terrorist, despite having shot a nurse/doctor there (as retribution for a personal slight).  I doubt the creators/writers intended it, but it really does serve to dilute the reality of anti-abortion violence (or reinforce the idea of the "lone wolf" rather than the connections to Operation Rescue and the like).

So it's not about ' precious innocent unborn babies ' etc but controlling a females sex life
Sounds like we're in Saudi Arabia or Africa. What's next? Chopping off girls clits. When men realize it will only reduce their chances of getting sex, that's when they will shut their mouths.... as pathetic as that is. Men shouldn't have an opinion, unless it's to support a woman's CHOICE. I don't sit there and tell men to stop cumming because it's killing little sperms (which are alive). Murderrrrrrr!
And the law would change once men realized that they were no longer getting laid and porn was becoming obsolete due to women worrying about being faced with charges for having a sex drive and men not having to face consequences on getting pregnant. If men could get pregnant too, we wouldn't need this much talk about being prochoice. Men are sensitive ball swinging wimps and it's very easy to be on the opposing side (prolife) rooting for something you will never biologically have to endure aka morning sickness, crazy hormones, gaining weight oh and that tinyyyyyy thing called labor and birth.
All it'll do is ruin more women's lives, shockingly enough. Felons can't vote in this country. If they make it a felony, the eventual result will be only anti-abortion women voting.

I'm pro-life but I come in peace. Trying to gain some perspective on this issue by asking an honest question.Over the past election and Women's March coverage, I've heard a lot about what it is pro-choice supporters are against. I.e. Don't defund PP, don't take away my right to choose, etc.So my thought question - what would an ideal government look like to you (either real or hypothetical)? Where could women receive abortions? Does the government provide tax money for contraceptives or abortions?  What other rights would you want guaranteed? Does the time of an abortion matter?Because I want to respect your sub and I don't want this to devolve into an argument, I won't reply unless specifically asked to.
Anywhere. Abortion pills would be available for sale over the counter in pharmacies and clinics would offer surgical procedures in every major town. Yes, along with all other healthcare, it is funded entirely through taxation and free at the point of need. Abortion would not be illegal at any stage of pregnancy. However, I would want education campaigns encouraging people to get abortions as early as possible to minimize health risks, as well as to prevent pregnancy in the first place using contraception. I don't want to go into all the non-abortion aspects of defining an "ideal government" because that's way too broad to answer here.
I'm not sure about the abortion pills being over the counter. I think women should at least be counseled on how to use them so they aren't misused and women end up hurt or dead.
That's why I said over the counter, c rather than in the shelf. A pharmacist can provide that counseling
Absolutely.
Hi there! I love your response, but based on the context, I think that you may have accidentally included a "not" in this sentence. Life would be so much easier for many women if the abortion pill were available OTC. However, this would never happen because of the (minimal) risk of ectopic pregnancy. I would just like to see all the waiting periods (between a first and second session) lifted at abortion clinics; and also all the restrictions on physicians looking to legally perform abortions. I'm sure we've all seen how in many states in the South like mine, clinics are being closed down because MDs who do perform abortions are having their hospital licensures revoked.
Not a mistake. Ideally, there would be absolutely no legal restrictions on abortion. I wrote exactly what I meant to.
Oh, yeah, you're right; my mind isn't working properly. I missed the "il-" in illegal. Duh.
Username checks out
So a woman could abort a day before her due date when the baby is fully formed and kicking? How about after birth but when still attached via the umbilical cord, could she terminate then? After all it's still her body at that point as its all connected
She could choose to terminate her pregnancy. The most practical way of doing that at 9 months is to induce a live birth.
They could do a c-section to remove the baby or induce labor; then it could be adopted. As long as the baby can survive without the cord to the mother, it can be adopted and taken care of by people who won't (intentionally or not) neglect it.
Speaking as someone who is pro-choice, I would actually rather see fewer abortions happen. However, I know that the best way to accomplish that is to make them unnecessary, not to make them illegal. Ideally, we would use the following proven methods: Proper comprehensive sex education in schools. The more you understand about the process, the better the choices you can make. Readily available birth control, preferably subsidized for all but at the very least for those who suffer from financial hardship. Extended maternity (and paternity) support structures, to help remove financial concerns. Medical coverage for pre- and post-natal care, longer paid leaves, subsidized child care. If you want more people to choose to raise a child, you have to make sure that pregnancy is not a financial disaster for the parent(s). These three things address many of the most common reasons that women have abortions, and have been used to great effect in order to reduce abortion rates even in countries where abortions are freely available. After that: Abortions should be available in every hospital, without literal lies being told to the patient (like "abortions cause cancer") or unnecessary infantilization of the patient (waiting periods and spousal consent). I absolutely want the government to fund them, and I frankly don't care if paying for abortions hurts someone's feelings. My taxes pay to bomb people, which I find just as abhorrent, but nobody gives me a free pass to get out of that. Time of an abortion doesn't matter. There's a lot of hand-wringing over "late-term abortions", but the truth of the matter is that women only get them if there's something seriously wrong, like the fetus not actually developing a brain.
I would add to the preventative measures education about consent but also what sexual abuse looks like and how to reach out for support. Reducing sexual assaults inside and outside the home should be also considered preventative.
Yes! Both excellent suggestions.
Contraception is taught to all women AND men and readily available and cheap. Abortion is freely legal and can be accessed in any stage of pregnancy. That's my ideal world.

Ugh.
So does this just mean doctors cannot suggest abortions? Or did I misunderstand this (I'm pretty confused tbh)
I believe that is a fair reading of the order which has apparently been on/off for many years. Physicians cannot just perform abortions. They cannot even discuss it with patients.

what a waste of time and money. People KNOW life begins at conception. That DOES NOT make the fetus a person nor does it grant the fetus a right that NO OTHER person has, and that is the right to use another's body without their consent or against their wishes. FFS!🙄
So then mothers have the right to drink and or do drugs throughout the pregnancy?
Actually, yeah. Women have the right to drink or smoke or do anything legal during their pregnancy. Women don't have the right to "do drugs" during their pregnancy, only because no person has the right to do drugs, as they are illegal.
So, back to infants that are totally dependent on another human being to be viable, can they be aborted, killed?
You can't go back to something that wasn't being discussed. We were talking about women's rights, not fetal rights, but yes. A woman has the right to terminate an unwanted pregnancy.
So there is no negligence for a deformed child because of the mothers actions.  Interesting.
Correct, there's no federal law prohibiting alcohol use during pregnancy. Only 3 states have laws that criminalize substance abuse during pregnancy.

You were replied to very nicely and politely. You're trying to pick a fight where you know you can. You came here just to say "Pro abortion reddit." No this is pro choice, no one here is bathing in babies blood and rallying to murder little kids in the streets. We're here to talk about our rights, our health rights. If I had a baby right now I'd feel so horrible since I have no job, no car, nothing. I have Borderline Personality Disorder, so 50% my kid would suffer that. Basically no I should NOT reproduce, I don't wish this mental disorder on anyone, I do not wish poverty on a child or baby. How about you go rally for the hundreds and thousands of already born and living children, like the Syrian refuges? Go donate and help them out, so many families and lives need the help. There are innocent children in this world, go help them...
If a pregnant woman is murdered, the killer is convicted for two murders.
yes, because her fetus was taken AGAINST HER WILL.
Performing an abortion on yourself is illegal.
That has nothing to do with my comment
If a woman does want an abortion, then it is not AGAINST HER WILL. But it is illegal to do it herself. Why is that?
I was referring to a man murdering a pregnant woman and being charged with 2 murders
I'm referring to abortion. If a person performs an abortion on herself then she is convicted for murder. That clearly isn't against her will. Edit: I apologize, not all are convicted for murder. A girl from my state was so assumed they all were. Some are just sent to jail for illegal abortion.
Because we have laws that restrict certain aspects of medicine, such as prescribing certain drugs or carrying out certain procedures, to people medically qualified to do them. You're not allowed to source your own morphine either.
It's not illegal for me to amputate my arm. If an abortion is just getting rid of clumps of cells, why is it illegal to do to yourself?
Because idiots go around thinking they know whats best without thinking of the bigger picture. If someone doesn't want a baby they should have every right to not have that baby. Forcing someone to take care of a life is dangerous. I hate that bigots go around making things harder, making it so abortions at home are illegal, why do you think they are? Because back when we didn't have clinics women did them at home, they did these illegal abortions and a lot of them had complications since they had NO TRAINING OR IDEA what to do. HENCE FORTH it is illegal to do at home for you could die. Most people don't want to amputate their arms, people however want a choice. So why is it illegal to smoke pot but not to drink a beer? See how stupid that argument is? It's comparing apples to oranges and going at a debate that way is very poor argument basis and elementary and childish.
So if a woman gets pregnant it's not her fault? She shouldn't have to deal with it because it was an accident?

Show me some laws.
The Unborn Victims of Violence Act, passed in 2004, defines a fetus as a "child in uterus" and a person as being a legal crime victim "if a fetal injury or death occurs during the commission of a federal violent crime." In the U.S., 38 states have laws with more harsh penalties if the victim is murdered while pregnant.
God, your country is fucked. Here's an older law: If a woman is pregnant and sees that child as a person; you are harming her and killing her potential child. If a woman is pregnant and does not want the child, it is not a person. Frankly, the unborn should not be considered people until they are viable - can survive outside of the womb.
Completely consistent. You and a person who in need of a kidney transplant are in hospital. If you refuse to donate one of your kidneys to the other patient, he will die. However, there is absolutely no legal obligation on you to donate, and you won't be tried for murder if you refuse. A gunman bursts into the building and shoots you both. He is convicted of a double murder.
I just thought it was contradictory to consider a fetus a person in some cases but not in others.
The justification for abortion doesn't rely on the fetus not being a person though.
So the fetus is a person?
I would say that personhood is something that develops gradually, being fully in place at around adolescence. I don't think personhood has any relevance whatsoever to the abortion debate. One always has the legal right to defend oneself against non-consensual occupation of one's body by a person.
The baby can't defend itself. It didn't ask to be placed I. The person's body.
Irrelevant. You have the right to defend yourself against criminals who aren't in control of their actions due to psychosis, mental retardation, etc. This is no different.
This is different, a little infant has no control on how he got there. If the mother doesn't want him, adoption is available. I can understand aborting a baby to prevent the mother and the child from dying. I don't understand why women do it just because they made a mistake and can't handle it.

They consented to a foetus using their body by getting pregnant, it's called cause and affect. At least for consensual unprotected sex that is. That doesn't necessarily mean a woman doesn't get to then decide not to let a foetus use her body until it comes to term but it's disingenuous to suggest she isn't responsible, under the conditions above, for getting pregnant and this cknsenting to the foetus creation and use of her body at least in the interim
Note how you ignored the "against their wishes" part of my statement. Also, consent MAY be implied, but that doesn't mean consent cannot be withdrawn.
Women valued less than embryos what a surprise !
That's one way of seeing it. Another is 'woman held accountable for the life she co-created' It's not her life that is valued less but her lifestyle, that of wanting to be childless vs the embryo
We will never change each other minds on this issue, and its a shame we cant find common ground such as attempting to decrease unwanted pregnancies in the first place.

Pro-life and Pro-choice are not equal, and women have the advantage on both sides already.In Pro-life, a woman who had consensual sex with a man becomes pregnant, and she decides to have the child. The man however, didn't intend to get the woman pregnant, and doesn't want the child to be born. He is not ready to accept the responsibilities of being a father. The woman will have the child, because by law it is her body. She will gain most/all parental rights. Additionally, she'll seek child support for 18 years, and the man will pay for what he considers a "mistake" for 18 years. Rightfully so. The father of the child should have been more careful if he didn't want a child at the time.In Pro-choice, a woman who had consensual sex with the man becomes pregnant, and she decides not to have the child. The man however, does, even though he didn't intend to get the woman pregnant. He is ready to accept the responsibilities of being a father. The woman will have the abortion, because by law it is her body. After all, it was just a mistake, and she is not ready to accept the responsibilities of a child. Maybe next time. However, the man who dreamt of being a father the moment he discovered she was pregnant, has lost his baby.A child is neither solely a woman's or solely a man's responsibility. A child, born or unborn, is both's responsibility, and so both their RIGHT to raise them when one or the another wants to or not.TRUE Equal Rights:If a woman has the right to an abortion, even when a man wants the child, then a man has the right to an abortion, even when a woman wants the child.If a woman has the right to keep the child, even when a man does not, then a man has the right to keep the child, even when a woman does not.Whether it takes 5 minutes to conceive, or 10 months, it still EQUALLY takes one man and one woman to create a new life.
Your argument equates financial autonomy with bodily autonomy, even though they are not the same thing.  Women take on every physical burden of procreation.  Pregnancy itself is full of very real risks. And you don't actually have a baby at the beginning of pregnancy. If a man who desperately wants a baby took a blastocyst under his most diligent care, its potential to someday become a baby would be outstripped by the lack of womb. That's because men have much less if what they need to make a baby.   It's much easier to acquire sperm from a donor than either eggs or a gestational surrogate. Unfair in some ways, but true. Still, I am sympathetic to the plea that parenthood without consent is problematic. I'm just not sure how it would work in practice.  Pregnancy and abortion is progressively more costly for the woman. This provides a natural incentive for the woman, if she is going to have an abortion, to have it as early in the process as possible.  This isn't naturally true of men's contributions. Let's imagine a woman who would abort if her partner won't support the child, but will keep it if he will. When does he need to make that decision by?  Before she starts to experience the morning sickness and exhaustion of early pregnancy (less costly for her)? Or is he allowed to wait until viability, when an elective abortion is no longer available for her (and if it was would be financially, emotionally, and physically tremendously costly for her). Does he need to pay her back in any way for the time he spent deliberating?  What would an appropriate recompense be?  Would it depend on how costly the pregnancy was for her?  How much money he had? Would such a decision be permanent?  You assume that men don't get custody, but men usually don't ask for custody. When they do, they are as if not more likely to get it than women (provided they do so from the beginning and don't wait until the kid is older and already stable in their new home environment). If she carries to term after he objects, does that terminate his parents' potential claim on the child as well?  What if he changes his mind? Finally, the woman's bodily autonomy is still apparently up for political discussion in the U.S. And yet you are more concerned with protecting men's wallets than women's bodies and lives. I don't see why your issue should be prioritized over a woman's control over her own medical decisions. Perhaps you could at least recognize that empowered women won't need as much legal "protection" in the form of mandatory child support as those whose bodies are used to hold them captive. If women are actually fully given that autonomy without argument. I would guess that most feminists would be glad to rectify financial imbalances.
Bodily autonomy and financial autonomy are not at odds though. Both can exist together. If a man wants to become a father and the woman doesn't she aborts. In that case she has body autonomy but there's no child so financial autonomy doesn't factor in However if she wants the child and he doesn't she can continue and he can exercise legal paternal surrender if he had that option, but he doesn't. In this case body autonomy doesn't factor in but financial autonomy does as he's held responsible for supporting a child he didn't consent to have. So the two aren't at odds. Body autonomy is for when a woman doesn't want to have the child and financial autonomy is for when a man doesn't want to have a child, neither contradicts the other Women can have body autonomy and men can have legal paternal surrender. It's just that men don't have that option because society doesn't offer mean equal rights to women regarding consent to parenthood
First of all, l want to thank you, not only for commenting but for commenting respectfully. I hope you do not take my arguments as disrespect by any means. You immediately start off by saying, "Your argument equates financial autonomy with bodily autonomy, even though they are not the same thing," yet all throughout your explanation, you consistently bring up financial endeavors as the reason for an abortion. "Pregnancy and abortion is progressively more costly for the woman. This provides a natural incentive for the woman, if she is going to have an abortion, to have it as early in the process as possible." "...and if it was would be financially, emotionally, and physically tremendously costly for her..." "Does he need to pay her back in any way for the time he spent deliberating?  What would an appropriate recompense be?  Would it depend on how costly the pregnancy was for her?  How much money he had?" And last, "And yet you are more concerned with protecting men's wallets than women's bodies and lives." Which is quite a hypocritical statement, since you make it seem that one of the main reasons a woman would want an abortion to protect her wallet in the long run. You said it yourself, it is cheaper to have an abortion than to carry full term, and yet thereafter. Let's talk about this quote. "That's because men have much less if what they need to make a baby." In truth, you equate the size of the sperm compared to the size of an egg, to importance. Or rather, you equate the time it takes a man to conceive to the time it takes a woman to conceive, to importance. But think about this. Try to have a baby, when you are ready, without sperm. Not sperm from your partner, not sperm from a donor. Try to have a baby without any contribution from a man. You cannot. It's impossible. A woman needs a man as EQUALLY as a man needs a woman to even conceive a child, whether the sperm is the size of the head of needle, or the egg is 1000x bigger.
I mean physical costs (over and above financial costs). Later abortions can be days long, potentially taking weeks to fully conclude. Later pregnancy means more time feeling sick, more drastic changes to your body. If you hemorrhage from placental abruption, there are physical autoimmune costs associated with requiring a transfusion, even if the event doesn't cost you your life. It is you that are equating costs with dollars, not me. Right here, I am specifically saying that there are non-financial costs. Of which I find the physical most compelling. Here I am pointing out how ludicrous it would because there is no appropriate recompense for the physical risks, but also no other means to provide appropriate incentives to the male partner. I'm not advocating it as a solution, I'm just showing the idiocy of attempting to equate the man's decision with the woman's. I'm not concerned with the size of the sperm vs.egg. Jeez.  Egg donation is costly because it requires weeks of injections, daily transvaginal ultrasounds and blood tests, followed by surgery under anesthesia. All physical costs. Gestational carriers are expensive because they require 9 months of highly medicalized lifestyle changes and  physical risk. Again physical costs. Sperm donation requires an orgasm. A physical cost?  Perhaps, but a minor one in comparison. It is simply much easier to find men who are willing to have orgasms to father someone else's child than it is to find women who are willing (and able) to carry a baby to term for someone else.
No one is going to argue with you that it takes both sperm and egg to create a child; that's a no-brainer. However, women's rights should be paramount as far as their own bodies are concerned because the genders are not the same biologically. Pregnancy takes a huge toll on a woman's body and emotions. Imagine feeling run down (and having flu-like symptoms) for months on end. Imagine feeling light-headed and unable to think clearly or remember where you parked your car for eight months straight. Imagine hating sex, and being unable to orgasm, for ten months in a row. Imagine bleeding, and being a depressive mess, for two months in a row. This is what pregnancy and childbirth have been like for me. Don't even get me started on breastfeeding, which literally made me want to die. Men don't go through this. Every time I have been pregnant, I have desperately wished I were I man because it would be so much easier. And the fact is, the vast majority of women naturally put much more effort (and time) into child-rearing than their partner does. They're biologically compelled to do so. Any group of women will bitch about their men being lazy around the house, and with good reason.
To be fair. In such a dynamic the man isn't coasting by, he's out working to bring in the money for the family unit
Sometimes. But in the vast majority of Western European and American families today, both the man and the woman are working. So the woman is working as well as dealing with the majority of household work. I'm not saying that all men don't do any household chores or help with the kids. I'm just saying it's more natural for women to do so, so men who are conscientious and really care about their families (and realize that their female partners are stressed out from work) often have to put more conscious effort into doing this kind of household work. Especially when the kids are younger. Most men are better with more verbal, older children than they are with babies and young toddlers. Again, this is a generalization, so not always true, but one based on biological roles.
You still haven't answered my questions though. When would the men need to choose?  How would the men be properly incentivitized to choose quickly?  Are they allowed to change their minds?

The thing is though, even if there were an abortion procedure that was completely painless for the fetus and the mother, anti-choicers wouldn't care. They are using this "fetal pain" bill as a front to restrict abortion rights because they are against abortion altogether, not because they are concerned with reducing "fetal pain". Plain and simple. Not to mention, the sheer irony of Republican lawmakers using "scientific consensus" to push their views is just rich.

It's not often you see someone spamming the same video to both pro-life and pro-choice subs. It's an odd way to promote your own video.
The video is about abortion so it makes total sense.
I think you have the wrong subreddit.
An important lesson to pregnant single mothers living in poverty: Ignore your doctor’s warnings that your next child will be born impaired. Marry a well-to-do Italian businessman. Have the child and buy him a piano. Have the nanny play him classical music. Send him to law school. Encourage him to pursue a recording career. All will be well. p.s. I love Andrea Bocelli and I’m so very glad he’s around. I still think women should make the best choice for themselves.
He never stated his mom was living in poverty, this is not about those situations, it's about the idea of a possible "disabled" kid. Look at the abortion rate of down syndrome children: 8-9 babies out of 10 are aborted. You can be pro choice and still appreciate the encouragement that comes from his story. Being blind, not having an arm or suffering from down syndrome are not excuses to eliminate your baby.

Is it bad that I would totally take 'rebellious jezebel' as a compliment?
It would make a good user name
I don't get why pro lifers have this mindset that pro choice equals mandatory abortion. It's so much more than that. Pro choice is to give women options and safe ways. It's the CHOICE of having an abortion. Regardless, women are going to get abortions whether people like it or not it's her CHOICE. NO ONE except HER should have control over what she does with HER body. It's basic bodily autonomy since she's the incubator and the fetus lives off of her. Thank you for your time.
They don't necessarily, some object to the idea that pro-choice means abortions are allowable to those who want them. In their minds, abortions should never be available, or they should be restricted to circumstances they approve of.
That's what I'm meaning by mandatory ya know? Like they assume pro choice is just abortion and baby killing but it's so much more than that. It's about a women's safety and wellbeing.
They don't actually believe that, but saying it helps push their narrative.
Im actually for mandatory abortions- but not by force. Basically, the number one concern is overpopulation, the fate of the world is more important than either a womans or a fetuses natural rights. If you cannot prove that you can afford a child, it should be against the law to have one. Instead of paying to feed children for their whole lives we could use a fraction of that to terminate the pregnancy early on. If you slip by undetected you recieve no financial support for your child.

The fetus isn't self aware though. A woman has to put her body through physical hell. She's the one who has to carry it and put her health on the line. So she comes first.
A prolifer does not believe that self awareness is what makes a human being's life valuable. After all, a person in a coma, an infant, a anesthetized person are all unaware and yet are still valuable and worthy of the right to not be killed. Parenting a born child can be physical hell too but a parent can not kill said child. Most prolifers I know make exceptions for the health/life of the mother anyway.
You want women to be forced to risk their lives and carry a pregnancy and give birth.
Please don't put words in my mouth. I already said if there is a life threatening situation then and the abortion procedure can save the mother it ought to be available.
That's the brunt of the issue. Each side takes a different approach to the issue. Pro-choice focus solely on the women and ignore the life growing inside her Pro-life focus solely on the life growing inside her and ignore the woman. Debate is next to impossible as neither side validates the other
I wish we could bridge the gap. But look, I can't even respond respectfully as a prolifer without getting downvoted.
Pre born?
A pre born human being. A human being that is not yet born. It emphasizes the humanity of the child.
You're in the wrong sub
Why? See rule 3. I don't think my comment was disrespectful in anyway. Unless you'd prefer an echo chamber I don't see the problem.

Like how stricter punishments against drugs made people not do drugs? Oh, wait...

My argument has nothing to do with how easy or difficult something is to do. The fact is that when a person wants or needs to do something badly enough, punishment is not a deterrent.
How do you prove a woman had an abortion. I live in Ireland, there is a 7 year sentence for abortion here, no one has actually served time for having one because good luck proving someone had one, are you going to have Mandatory monthly pregnancy tests? How will you know if she's had an abortion or a miscarriage? What if she did something to induce miscarriage accidentally or it happens naturally? How can you tell what was intentional or not? Do you round up all women who go to the Dr after miscarrying and lock them up? Or lock them up after positive result on the mandatory monthly pregnancy test preemptively? Do you punish women who have still born children? Do you let women with missed miscarriages die of infection rather than abort the decaying fetus? Women have aborted unwanted pregnancies since the dawn of time. The ancient Greeks drove a plant to extinction from over use it was such a good abortificant. You can have dead women from botched abortion or you can have safe abortion. But you can't have no abortion unless they come up with side effect free 100% effective birth control
We need to Jurassic Park that plant.
How do you prove a woman was actually raped and isn't just lying about it? There are crimes that are difficult to investigate but that does not suffice as an argument against making it a crime. Men have raped women since the dawn of time. Some cultures it was totally legal to do it. My point here is basically that your arguments stink.


Is this supposed to be sarcastic? Because you forgot your "/s"
First of all, your grammar and sentence structure needs work. Secondly, how about we worry about the children who are already alive and living in poverty?
Lol @ you also posting this
i completely disagree with his opinion on abortion, but it's possible that he really does think that abortion is "killing babies!!!!" without having religious background (although unlikely)
I live in Croatia and I pray with all my heart that what I read was just some bullshit internet article which isn't true. I'm sixteen and I don't really track politics, but it catches my eye every time I see something as abortion or gay rights and such, so I find this article that gave me chills. So, apparently, in Croatia abortion is legal if the pregnancy lasts up to 10 weeks, afterwards women are required to face a commitee which will decide whether they will allow it. BUT, the worst part is yet to come. What 70% of gynecologists in Croatia do, is exercise their right to "refuse service of adoption due to religious, moral and ethical disagreement." They are obligated to refer them to another doctor which will fulfill their request. Unfortunately, that is almost always a private practitioner which will charge twice as much as it usually costs (about 2000 kuna, in private clinics up to 4000-5000, which is about 500$... That's minimum wage around here...). And the government which is now in office is encouraging a law which will force women to see a priest, rabbi and such, depending on their stated religion if any. Otherwise they would have to see a psychologist, just to make sure. Not to mention that these women will probably be fired from their jobs. Abortion in this country is such a tabu, that anyone who has done it is viewed practically as a criminal. It'd be super awesome if someone saw this article and raised awareness of this in the EU or something, because we don't have it as bad as some others do (in Malta, abortion justifies arrest and imprisonment).
Maltese female here. Abortion is illegal in ANY circumstance, even if the pregnancy is dangerous to the mother's health. This is one of the few things I hate about living here, its so backward yet Malta was the first EU member state to ban gay conversion therapy.

I was also that kid dragged along to pro-life rallies and told that I didn't belong to myself. Thanks for sharing.
Tell them when they're young and make it part of their reality; woven seamlessly into their identity. This way they would never question. Crazy.
I was raised strict catholic. And I believed all the "it's a baaabbyy from conception" garbage. Because as a 5 yr old, we were shown pictures of 8 month old babies in a balloon and told that they were being ripped apart. And birth-control did the same thing. Oh and if you had sex, you were always IMMEDIATELY pregnant. And of course your vagina belongs to your father until he gives it to your husband. Funny thing though .. when I was raped at 15, those same people where the first ones to stuff a months worth of birth control pills down my throat. No doctor would prescribe the morning after pill and even if they would, no pharmacy would fill it. It's all hypocritical garbage, forced on other people by people that hate themselves.
Hey, kinda late to reply, but I'm so sorry you had that happen to you. I have some friends that I've met in college that are dealing with the same kind of struggle to remind themselves that what they do with their body isn't for any other person in this world other than themselves.

No. Fetal tissue was donated by patients for research purposes, and Planned Parenthood was reimbursed for the cost of collecting/storing/transporting it. Some people will try to claim this is the same thing as selling the parts, but a simple analogy proves them wrong: Say I'm getting rid of a fridge, and you want it. I say you can have it, but you have to come pick it up. You go to your friend who drives a pickup and call in a favor. Your friend picks up the fridge and brings it back, and you buy him some pizza and pay him back for the gas. Did your friend sell you the fridge? Of course not.

Thank you for the excellent article.
Here is the truth. From Snoops ( They are generally pretty accurate.) http://www.snopes.com/pp-baby-parts-sale/

Clickbaity title: according to the data in the article itself, the majority of America has been pro-choice since at least the early 1990s. but I guess "the majority of American continues to remain pro-choice" doesn't sound like news.
I was going to say. Now? The majority of Americans have been pro-choice for decades.
Hi pro-choice Redditors,I was raised as an orthodox Christian and consequently had a very clear biblically grounded pro-life opinion regarding abortus. Recently, I lost my faith, which causes me to reevaluate my stance on various moral issues.I started to read and seriously tried to understand the arguments of the pro-choice camp, but I have failed to discover a philosophical framework in which an abortion (For example: in the case of a successful duo that wants to focus on their careers) seems a morally justifiable thing to do.Can you maybe explain me why you are pro-choice? Please try to convince me to come and join you, or at least, try to make me understand your position.
Forcing a woman to undergo some combination of all of this against her will simply because there is a fetus inside of her that doesn't know it exists and won't know if it doesn't exist is immoral and basically torture and slavery: Normal, frequent or expectable temporary side effects of pregnancy: Normal, expectable, or frequent PERMANENT side effects of pregnancy: Occasional complications and side effects: Less common (but serious) complications: More permanent side effects: link Additionally this is in a country with no paid or even unpaid maternity leave, no universal health care (pregnancy and childbirth cost upwards of $10k even with insurance), and no free child care.
"Forcing a woman to undergo some combination of all of this against her will simply because there is a fetus inside of her that doesn't know it exists and won't know if it doesn't exist is immoral and basically torture and slavery" She had the choice to have sex, correct? How does that equate to torture and slavery? Use logic in your argument.
I wrote a reply earlier but there is another important point nobody has brought up yet. Outlawing abortion will not end abortion. It will end safe abortions. Women still had abortions before Roe v Wade. But they were riskier and more dangerous. Women were in risk of uncontrollable bleeding, becoming infertile, death, and all kinds of permanent damage. When abortion is legal, it is one of the safest medical procedures in existence.
I'm pro-choice because it's better if all children are wanted children. If a child is unwanted, they can be impoverished, neglected, and/or abused. Abortion in these cases is the moral thing to do because it spares the fetus a lifetime of suffering, which is a greater wrong than ending its life. Abortion in this case also ends up better for everyone overall because then young people grow up with love and support and are less likely to engage in criminal activity, subsist entirely on welfare, live a life spreading emotional distress, etc. There's also the matter of bodily autonomy, in that a person with a uterus has the right to decide what happens in and to their body. If that person does not want to be pregnant, they have the right to terminate. If we do not give them that right, then they have less rights than corpses, whose organs cannot be donated without their previous consent.
I'm pro life. Society is pro-choice as it is right now, and there are hundreds of thousands of unwanted children in the U.S. especially in the inner cities. The best solution to this would to be make adoption more accessible & feasible. How can you possibly judge the entire quality of somebody's life when they're not even born yet? It's a terribly flawed argument. Allowing abortion to reduce crime rates is a classic example of correlation does not equal causation. And your last argument fails to acknowledge that real life is in the woman's womb, with its own body, with it's own DNA, chromosomes, sometimes blood type, and the heart starts beating very early. I was my own body at conception. My future children will have their own body at conception. You had your own life at conception, whether you like it or not. Thoughts? Comments?
You have the rights to your body. If I was the only person who could give you a kidney that you needed, you could not morally force me to give it to you. That would be wrong. Neither can a fetus force a woman to allow it access to her body without her consent. I can judge the quality of someone's life before they are born. That's what happens all the time. What if a child was known to have a genetic disorder such that they would never be able to talk, walk, feed themselves, toilet by themself - and then die horribly and in great pain? Would you say that that person has a life that could not be classified as "a lifetime of suffering"? As possible parents, it's the adult's choice to judge the life they would be able to provide for that fetus.
Exactly. Each person should have the right to life and of their own body in the very beginning of their life in the womb. The kidney example is not proportionate in that it compares the innocent life of an unborn child to somebody that has most likely experienced life. The child was never even given a chance of being born. As a special education volunteer I find your lack of understanding people with disabilities very disturbing. A rare genetic disorder never being able to talk, walk, feed themselves, use the toilet etc., is still very much a life, and still can contribute wonderful gifts to the world if you actually spend time with someone like this (I have many times). You can never predict whether or not somebody will endure a "lifetime of suffering" and that's extremely subjective because there are many different understandings of what suffering truly is. History lesson: Hitler eliminated all handicapped people from German society. Do we really want to mimic the same beliefs as the worst human being to ever live? If the adult can't provide basic support for a newborn child, adoption should obviously be encouraged. And again, the lack of people pressuring to make adoption more feasible is sad.
Adoption should not be super easy - that's how you get children put in situations that will not end well for them. You can personally be against having an abortion. That's fine as long as you don't try to make everyone bend to your will. Pro-choice is about realizing that it is the right of every person with a uterus to choose whether or not that uterus will have a tenant.
YES! There's a reason that so many steps take place during the adoption process. I cringe whenever I hear that adopting a child needs to be easier. Fostering a child is much easier than adopting and many children are put into abusive homes as a result.
No one has ever asked to be born. If I were pregnant, unintentionally, and I knew that I could not afford to give my future child my time and resources, why should I force the child, who cannot ask for existence, to live a life that is now intentionally a struggle? In a way, we are hindering evolution. I want my child to be smart and healthy, and I want them to succeed at the existence I brought them into. I want to be able to give them the tools they need to help strengthen their generation. I want a child, when I have the resources available to raise a child. Unintentional pregnancies happen. You have to take responsibility for your actions, and I think abortion should be an option within one of those paths of responsibility.
The fetus was placed in the woman's body by her actions. Therefore, it was her choice.
I have now learned that rape is a choice.
Rape is not a choice, but you seemed to think that it is the fetus' fault that it was placed there.
You seem to think any sex, regardless of rape, is the woman's choice. It's not the fetus's fault it was placed there, but it's the woman's right to remove unwanted guests. If the fetus has a right to life, that right does not extend into the right to use someone's body against their will. That's bodily autonomy - being able to choose who gets to inhabit your uterus and when, getting to decide whether or not to donate blood, tissues, organs (even when you're dead). Do you mean to tell me that you believe that dead people and blastocysts (clumps of cells without sentience) deserve more rights than living women?!
Do you mean to tell me that a child in a woman's belly is not alive? Abortion is ending a person's life. If it is a person's right to remove unwanted guests, then why isn't murder (other than abortion) legal? And why is it illegal to perform an abortion on your own?
A blastocyst is alive. It is not a person. It does not have the right to a woman's body. Even if it was a person, still would not have that right. For instance; if you're bleeding out, you do not have the right to take my blood forcibly from me. You do not have the right to take or touch or invade any part of my body without my permission. You, I assume, are a living person. If you tried to take my blood without my consent, it would be within my rights to fight and protect myself - use reasonable force to remove the violator of my rights. That's where murder is legal: self-defense.
Blood isn't alive. I am all for self-defense, and why is it illegal to perform an abortion on yourself?

If the person doesn't want to be pregnant, they don't have to engage in sexual activity.
If you don't want to get run over by a vehicle, never leave your house.
If you are not prepared to handle the consequences of the choices you make, maybe you shouldn't make those choices.
Not everyone gets to make those choices. And - SPOILER - an abortion is a way of dealing with those consequences. It's not a stroll in the park, it's a serious medical procedure. Also, if you consider children a consequence or punishment for sex, I hope you never have any.
Children are a blessing. Raising them before you are ready is a consequence. If you get or get someone pregnant, it is your responsibility to raise the child and care for it. If you can't, adoption is also a great thing. Abortion is very selfish and irresponsible. Ending the child's life is not a logical way of dealing with pregnancy.
So are you gonna say that if a man doesn't want a baby, he shouldn't have sex either? Or is that just for women?
I'm saying it's for both
With human being sexual creatures it's almost impossible to set abstinence and get anyone who doesn't want a kid to follow it though. That's why on a different note, planned parenthood shouldn't be defunded because they help give people access to birth control
That's fine if someone doesn't want to be abstinent, but they need to realize that pregnancy is a possibility every time they engage in sexual activity. They need to be prepared to handle it. Abortion is not the way to handle it. Abortion is wrong and shouldn't be used just because a child is unwanted. Adoption is a good thing that can be used for an unwanted child.
I agree that abortion isn't an option just because the child isn't wanted. But what about all of the children who are already in the system waiting to be adopted?
They aren't dead
Those kids should get adopted before an unwanted pregnancy brings yet another child into the system
Thank you for your reply. Your first argument is utilitarian. If the total amount of pleasure minus pain in state A is higher than in state B, we prefer state A over state B. In my opinion, this view ignores the important notion of rights.  A violation of a right is not permitted, even if everyone benefits from this violation. If we see the fetus as a person with rights (specifically, a right to live), then we may not kill it without its consent. Just like we may not kill grown-ups, even if the world might be a better place if we do. Regarding your second point, I acknowledge the bodily autonomy of people. There is a conflict between two fundamental rights: the right of women to decide what happens with their body, and the right of the child to live. But why do you think the right of the women outweighs the right of the child in this matter? I would advocate the opposite, since 1) It is very natural for a woman to have a child inside her. It is not an exotic parasite that somehow invaded their body, but a very common process of pregnancy. As a mother, you have the natural obligation to take care or your child. 2) When having (protected) sex, the man and women accept the risk of her getting pregnant, and they should accept the responsibilities that come with it.
A child shouldn't be a "consequence". It should be a joyful event for people who will love it and treat it well. If someone is too immature or irresponsible to use the appropriate protection, they're far too irresponsible to be good parents and should not be raising a child.
Abortion involves separating the embryo/fetus from the mother. Only in rare cases of third trimester abortion, which are usually carried out on non-viable fetuses, is it actively killed. Is denying someone the ability to use your organs killing them? If you think it is, I assume you've already donated one kidney via the National Kidney Foundation to avoid murdering someone who needs it? The naturalistic fallacy has no place in rational discussion. It's a common logical pitfall. So you support abortion in cases of rape. How would you like to enforce that? If claiming to have been raped is the only way of getting an abortion, expect false accusations to skyrocket.
"2) When having (protected) sex, the man and women accept the risk of her getting pregnant, and they should accept the responsibilities that come with it." And anti-choice extremists should mind their own business and not try to impose their backward views on all women. Not every woman wants pregnancy or children; in fact, some women shudder at the very idea of getting pregnant.  There's nothing wrong with that, no matter how many anti-choice extremists claim otherwise.  The idea that any woman who doesn't want motherhood should be punished with lifetime celibacy is laughable, to put it politely.  But that's exactly what you're suggesting with absurd statements like this one.
Because no human being has the right to use the body of another without their consent.
The premise does not support the conclusion. The only "obligation" is the one you impart upon the mother. There is nothing you can cite to demonstrate this is a "natural obligation." They may only accept the consequence knowing abortion is available in the event of that consequence. And accepting the possibility of the consequence does not mean accepting the responsibility in any event. If the pregnancy is unintended, then the responsibilities are not accepted by extension. Additionally, they don't accept the responsibilities, since the woman gives birth, and both can absolve themselves of parenthood through legal, and accepted, means. Lastly, you can't even be consistently pro-life and mandate a woman accept the "responsibilities" of pregnancy. Carrying a fetus to term can be life threatening to the woman, a "risk" the couple having sex creates. Does this confer onto the woman a responsibility to carry that pregnancy to term? Not if you're sane regardless of which side of the debate you're on.
So you didn't come here to be convinced at all. Fuck off, troll.
I think you've been convinced.  Hope you enjoy adoption.
Did you really think that lame argument was going to work in this room? And your initial dishonest post only goes to show the weakness of your position. You actually denied your own god. Judas!!! If you have to lie, you are probably on the wrong side. WWJD?
You are a smart person
Why am I pro-choice? Well, the main reason I am pro-choice is because I value bodily autonomy. I find it totally unacceptable to force a woman (or anyone for that matter) to carry a pregnancy to term against their will.
Before anybody starts the "it's not your body" argument, think of bodily autonomy like this. If you need a blood transfusion and I am the only person in the world who can give you my blood, am I legally obligated to do so? No I am not. You can't even take organs or anything else from corpses unless they gave you permission to do so when they were alive. The same thing applies for abortion. Nobody can force me to give up my blood, organs, or any other body part. Deciding what to do with my body and everything in it is my choice. Outlawing abortion means giving pregnant women less control over their body than dead people.
I'm pro-choice because I believe that forcing a woman into childbirth and pregnancy, is a horrible, immoral, and disgusting act for which there is no excuse. As a fellow christian, I see nothing in the Bible that justifies outlawing abortion.
People are going to have sex--that's a fact. Not everyone is going to have kids--that is also a fact. You can try to tell people to only have sex when they want kids, but you won't be successful. I don't think children should be the 'consequence' of a woman's 'irresponsibility'. I think people should only have to have children when they can properly care for them, and should not be forced to do so before they are ready. Bad things happen when unwanted kids are born. This leads to things like abuse, infanticide, and neglect--I find that my own pro-life friends don't consider that. "It's sucks that your parents beat you every night and don't feed you often, but at least you're alive!" That's reassuring... Besides, orphanages are pretty full, and don't receive much money anyhow. The last thing they need is to get more kids that won't get adopted. You know what I always found funny? People will rally all day long for children that haven't even been born, but they could care less about the kids in orphanages, or living in poverty; and if you happen to be from the Middle East, you and your children, born or unborn, can all die. So, basically, because people are hypocrites and most should not be allowed to reproduced.
Obviously because I don't believe a fetus to be a living human being. Simple.
Kinda late to the party, but I just found this sub. There are 3 instances for me that make me pro-choice. The first is the woman's health. If a woman is going to get sick or if she could die from going on with the pregnancy and birth process, she should not be forced to carry the child. My second instance is rape. That one's pretty self explanatory, but she did not willingly do the act to create the child, so she should not be forced to put her life on hold for 9 months to have the child. (And I wouldn't say that adoption is a good solution for this instance, since there are hundreds upon hundreds of children in the system, waiting to be adopted). My third instance is the fetus' health. If the baby was going to have an extremely serious defect that would really hinder in their quality of life, I wouldn't bring the child into the world just for them to be trapped and suffering for their entire lives. (For this one, I'm talking about a defect that would put them into a wheelchair for their entire lives, completely unaware of everything, and being dependent on a caretaker their entire life. I'm NOT talking about something like Down's syndrome. I would keep a child with Down's syndrome, because they can live a relatively normal life, especially in these days, since we're always seeing stories of people with Down's syndrome being accepted to college and getting jobs and everything).
My problem with the argument about rape is that if you truly believe that a fetus is comparable to an infant, what difference does it make how the child was conceived? I wouldn't condone euthanizing an infant in the case of rape. Is that aborted fetus's life any less valuable than the ones aborted simply because they weren't wanted? I find this exception more frustrating than people who are 100% pro-life because it just goes to show that banning abortions is more about punishing women than preserving life. Whether you're pro life or pro choice, It is nobody's business why a woman wants an abortion, and personally I think just not wanting a child is a perfectly valid reason. As much as I want people to pick a side, allowing abortion only in the case of rape is so so so much better than nothing.

Prepare to be investigated for every miscarriage. I can just see it now ... blood work , urine test for drugs, home searches for anything that would be bad for the fetus .,, restrictions on selling pregnant women coffee at Starbucks. The Handmaiden's Tale, Trump Edition. Ugh
"Prepare to be investigated for every miscarriage." I know; it's every pro-choice girl's and woman's worst nightmare.  Thank goodness I'm post-menopausal and don't have to worry about unwanted pregnancy anymore.  It's all the girls and young women in their reproductive years whose rights will be taken away in this new and scary administration who I am most concerned about.  What do we do to help them?
I am currently in menopause and very grateful. My daughter is 21 and after a few years of playing "pill, pill , where is the pill" every damn day, I insisted on her getting the IUD. Since she has never given birth, she was given the three-year IUD. I now keep a stash of Plan B. It can now be ordered relatively cheaply on the Internet. I encourage all young women that I know to test for pregnancy frequently even if using some form of birth control. Those test can be found for a dollar at some of the dollar stores in my area. I also keep a stash of those. Early detection is extremely important. Luckily, I am only about six hours from the Mexico border. The abortion pill is OTC there. It is marketed in the pharmacies as "bring your period back".  I also keep my passport up-to-date. There are some reputable websites that will sell the abortion pill and ship it to you. I must stress "reputable". Be very cautious of fake pills that are currently being sold at $200-300. Womenonweb.com is a very good resource for information. I think education on the subject is going to be very key in the near future. We must be willing to do what our mothers and grandmothers did back before Roe V Wade. Find a way.
"We must be willing to do what our mothers and grandmothers did back before Roe V Wade. Find a way." Absolutely.  Thankfully, we have the Internet now, which our mothers and grandmothers did not have.  This resource gives more girls and young women access to information on how to get reliable contraception and abortion for any girl/woman who wants one. The challenge is how to get information on preventing unwanted pregnancy to girls who for some reason don't have access to the Internet and may not even have access to a computer.  Even though this is the 21st century, there are many girls who have parents that are stuck in the past by at least two centuries when it it comes to girls and women, even in the United States.
Yes I fear for those girls.  There are many religious sects that are run this way. I have no idea what to do about that. My heart breaks for them.

I'm pretty sure he knows all of this. He is choosing to ignore it. It's almost as if their goal is to breed minimum wage slaves. Not sarcasm, sadly.
"It's almost as if their goal is to breed minimum wage slaves." I have no doubt whatsoever that this is exactly what the right-wing Republican goal is.  Why else would they oppose all measures like offering wide access to free or low-cost contraception that would significantly reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies which lead to abortions? The way I see it, the best way to keep women poor is to keep them ignorant and pregnant.  That won't happen if a huge number of women get the contraception they need to avoid pregnancy and birth, will it.
Then throw in cuts to education and social programs and you make people increasingly desperate. Got to fill those for-profit prisons too. Again, not /s
"Then throw in cuts to education and social programs and you make people increasingly desperate." Exactly.  I don't believe right-wingers want more people being able to escape the economic prison of poverty.  They prefer more people stay stuck in poverty with no way out and, if possible, fix it so more people -- preferably women -- become poverty-stricken due to the timeless trap of single motherhood in one's teens or twenties.  That can be done by denying access to contraception, abortion, and information on how to avoid unwanted pregnancy.  Oh, that's right, it's being done right now, and it's only going to get worse.
Of course.. that's the people that vote for them. The poor and uneducated. And that population is obviously growing at an alarming rate.
"Of course.. that's the people that vote for them. The poor and uneducated." Yep, that's the best way for backward politicians like Ryan to make sure they stay in power; GROW the population of the poor and uneducated, not reduce it.

I've always been pro-choice because anti-abortion predominately hurts poor, disenfranchised women more than anyone else, but I'm not particularly informed on the current debate. I really don't think about abortion often because I'm a dude and it just isn't on my radar, but I don't want to come off as a completely uninformed protester. What should I know/expect?I guess this doubles as a promo for the march, so here's a link to the Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/anticpcchi/
Good for you for going . This article might give some information https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/at-least-46-anti-abortion-bills-are-already-in-front-of-state-legislatures-in-2017
Women need more men to step up!! They need to see that not all men are misogynistic pricks. And the misogynists need to see that they will face other MEN!!
As a prolife woman I would say you should know that you should be respectful of the prolifers views. Don't get in their face, swear or be rude. Remember many of the prolife women are mothers or have had experiences with pregnancies, births and or miscarriages. She will not react well to you calling her baby a parasite or whatever. Try to talk to someone if they are open to it and remember, the prolifer views the human fetus as equal to and worthy of the same rights as a born baby. Since they are both living and human beings and prolifers believe that all living and human beings deserve equal rights (in particular the right to life or not be killed) and those rights to be protected.

My understanding is that a lot of the reason for roe v wade is to stem the flow of dead women who get abortion s by sketchy people. By legitimatizing the procedure regulations s could be put in place, knowledge could be shared training could take place, etc. Conservative s always seem to want to adjust people's behavior through law, but that never changes behavior, it just pisses people off. Anyone with a child knows what telling them not to do something typically does - it makes them more curious about the thing. You don't want them to drink and drive? Don't threaten them. Educate them.




right to abort 
I don't know why this doesn't surprise me. Women in prisons can't even get enough hygiene products to deal with their periods correctly, and now this.
Not to mention the lack of health care there. And knowing the new born will be taken from you. This is ... no words

I…think you need to reread his title. As I read it he does not think that being in prison should prevent you from getting an abortion.
That is correct! I see this as a way for the infant trafficking industry aka adoption agencies, to get fresh infant flesh to sell. Especially with all of the new laws coming out that are geared at throwing women in prison for not wanting to be pregnant.

*than
*mormon... jk

By definition, that person is a terrorist, not a protester :P
Let him be an example for all the other pro-birthers.
Honestly there are crazies in every group and pro-life advocates would like this to serve as an example of bad behavior as much as pro-choice advocates would. Rational discourse always breaks down when people turn to violence and threats of violence.
If this was an isolated incident, I might agree. But it's not. Clinic bombings.. doctor shot in the head... Women being terrorized out front of Planned Parenthood when they are trying to get birth control... the forced birthers have a long list of vile and dangerous behavior. From my experience, it's pretty much the norm for them. It's the peaceful ones that are on the fringe of the anti choice cult.
That's your only experience because you rarely have interactions with pro-life advocates. I have frequent contact with such advocates and I haven't seen one crazy among any of them. In my experience, the crazies are the extreme fringe.
Wrong! I actually have quite a bit of contact with them. You stay in your own little world. And that's the biggest problem with you people, you make blanket assumptions about people with absolutely no knowledge of who they are , What their lives are like or anything else about them. You just assume that you know. I live in Texas and help women get to Mexico so they can access the abortion pill. They are able to avoid all of your TRAP laws and it only takes a few hours as opposed to the days or weeks that the anti choice movement is trying to put them through. I help sex trafficking victims, victims of rape and incest and domestic violence victims just to name a few. I also volunteer as a clinic escort. I help raise funds for women that can't afford the fees And I will continue to do so in spite of your vile and uninformed little terroristic "movement".
Isn't that what you're doing about the pro-life movement? Saying "you're all crazy and terrorists" is a pretty big blanket statement itself. Also, I didn't make any assumptions. If you're saying that most pro-life people are crazy and violent, then I absolutely know you haven't met many of them. You probably can't show me any surveys or polls to corroborate your anecdotal experiences. Your interaction seems to be limited to a certain kind of pro-life advocate. If you're a clinic escort, that makes sense. The crazies tend to congregate at the clinics.
Don't be so overdramatic. I did not say "all". You claimed that I had a limited knowledge. You are wrong. You also claimed that very few were violent and crazy. You were also wrong. There is a huge population of anti-choice people that are completely psychotic. That's why clinic escorts are needed all over the country and the globe. I was also raised strict Catholic. Yes, I know lots of you psychos. And I will spend the rest of my life helping women escape you and other people like you.
You didn't say all but you said those that are not crazies are the fringe. I think that's an extraordinary, blanket accusation that requires you to show statistics or stop claiming it. I didn't say very few are crazy. I said the crazies are by far the minority. They are the fringe. There is no evidence that these people predominate in the movement. Of course you have limited knowledge. We all do. Any personal experience is anecdotal and, by definition, limited.
There you .. acting just like you people do. I'll say what I please. I can complain about anything I want to and I owe you nothing. I don't OU a fetus I don't OU an explanation I don't owe you anything. The next time you have to wear a bulletproof vest in order to bring a woman into a doctors office, you get back to me with how peaceful you people are. And I find it hilarious how a forced birther Will completely lie about medical facts and then turn around and demand proof that people on their side actually bomb clinics, harass women and kill people. This happens daily. So you can deny the fact that your side is full of nut bags, but that doesn't make it true. So just shut up! ~que the post where the forced birther cries about me telling them to shut up after me complaining about them trying to tell me to quit complaining~ You made hubris assumptions about me .. and when I called you want to eat and do the same thing to you, you cried. Just like the rest of your people. You are all the same. Hypocrites.. violent psychotic hypocrites
Of course you can say whatever you want. But without evidence, it's disingenuous. You haven't cited one proof that shows the majority of pro-life advocates are violent or extremist. You don't owe it to me. It's just intellectually honest that the person making a claim has the burden of proof. Otherwise your argument doesn't have a leg. Anecdotes aren't evidence. How did I lie about medical facts? I haven't made any medical claims. I feel you are being unnecessarily divisive too. "You people." I have never seen this as them versus us. We are all trying to achieve some virtue, the greater good.

"That's your only experience because you rarely have interactions with pro-life advocates." PROVE IT! Show me a study. Show some proof of your statement. If you don't then you are intellectually dishonest... just like the rest of your group.
Fair enough. I revoke my claim. Do you also revoke your baseless claim?
No .. I have issued you a challenge on my other comment. Your claim was baseless because you do not know me. You pulled that comment right out of your butt. There are numerous news stories and documentaries proving the violence of your people. You just don't like it and want to pretend that it is rare and you are separated from it. When in fact, your rhetoric and nonsense is inciting the violence. You are very much a part of it even if you don't do it yourself.
"This man was arrested for making terrorist threats, so we're going to give the rest of his group several minutes of interview time to spread their manifesto and not talk to the targeted people at all. "Fox News. Fair and balanced."
You spelled "terrorist" wrong.
Not pro-life, but anti-choice.
So pro-life.
Yeeeeees.
Good!

My health teacher is in his mid 60's and has some mostly conservative viewpoints. Today we discussed abortion in class, but he made it very clear that there would be no debate. Instead, he asked us each to write down two reasons we support pro-life or pro-choice views and turn them in anonymously to be read back to the class. (My reasons for supporting pro-choice were back-alley abortions and bodily autonomy).Now interestingly,  he provided very unbiased commentary as he read them aloud. He was clearly not ignorant, and he described different bodily anatomy and talked about aborting a preganancy from blastocyst to embryo to fetus. He mentioned that the answer to where life begins is "subjective" and that he believed it started very early (did not specify anymore). He did not disaprove of anyone, and simply stated he was pro-life again without trying to persuade us."That's your decision to make". He said"I'm not going to make it for you".The rest of class, we watched a documentary about a girl named [Becky Bell] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Becky_Bell)She refused to tell her conservative parents she was pregnant and couldn't apply for a legal abortion with telling them, so she received a back alley abortion and died of infection.I was very impressed by the very unbiased way this information was taught, especially considering horror stories I have heard about other schools.
Your teacher may want to think he's pro life, but he's actually pro-choice.  He just said "that's your decision to make."  He doesn't have to like it and he doesn't have to want it to happen in his back yard but you know what? He's pro fucking choice.
I think he meant "That's your decision to make" in the sense that it's their decision to decide what side of the argument to support rather than the choice to have an abortion.
He may be required to say that he is pro life. Many school districts mandate pro life propaganda be taught in schools.
Not a chance. This is at a school in California where at least 85% of the student body is left leaning. Our school allows teachers to disclose all political beliefs to students, provided that they do not explicitly mention the name of a candidate that they will vote for in an election for public office.
In that case, it is most impressive. I'm in Texas. Abortion isn't even mentioned as a possible outcome of pregnancy. Abstinence only sex ed is pretty much law.
Same in Florida.
I did a research paper on the effects of abstinence only education and HOLY SHIT is if awful. I live in Oregon, which usually swing pretty blue and is REQUIRED by law to teach a comprehensive sex education program yet rural schools still get away with AO. Sickens me
Holy shit. That sounds completely biased.
I mean if it was a true story it deserves to be heard. It's a very real side affect of making abortion illegal and not increasing the availability of contraception.
If it was heard along side these types of stories then I'd believe it was unbiased. http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2277868/jennifer-McKenna-Morbelli-dies-having-abortion-33-weeks-pregnancy.html http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2177534/Tonya-Reaves-Familys-fury-woman-24-dies-operating-table-abortion.html
Can you get a source that's not daily mail? I agree they should have factual info on both sides, but Daily Mail is essentially a tabloid with no journalistic credibility or respect.
http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2013/02/21/woman-late-term-abortion-death/1935799/ http://www.irishcentral.com/news/irish-american-teacher-died-after-abortion-at-33-weeks-pro-life-groups-demand-action-191369551-237565861 http://www.cnsnews.com/news/article/barbara-boland/planned-parenthood-settles-2-million-case-after-botched-abortion http://chicago.cbslocal.com/tag/tonya-reaves/

I don't get the joke :/
That's the stance (physical position of her body) that she would take if she took the abortion pill and was trying to push out everything.
Oh...... Well thank you for explaining it at least
Which episode is that from?

Brace yourself for an epidemic of STDs, dumpster babies and an explosion of child abuse cases.

Abortion isn't murder and removing millions of people's health care is a bad idea.
Also while abortion isn't murder, the Hyde amendment already forbids federal money to go towards funding abortion (which is still an issue because it denies health care to thousands of people, especially poor people and POC). So either be properly educated if you're gonna insist on taking away people's health rights or gtfo please
Except a fetus isn't a child. What's funny is that if you try to debate on the Pro Life sub, you get banned.
Learn to read.
PP saved my life. I got a very bad UTI while traveling across the country alone. I was very, very ill and worried it was spreading to my kidney's. I was up all night sitting in the tub crying while pounding water and cranberry juice. I went to the PP in Denver and for $60 I got the antibiotics I needed and continued my trip.
Which you could've gotten from.... any other MD...
Actually, no. An MD would have charged me hundreds if not more. You do know that abortions take place outside of clinics, right? Many gynecologists perform them in hospitals.
Hey there, I'm a high school student in Washington and I have an assignment in my ceramics class to make a sculpture about an issue that is important to us. I chose the pro-choice abortion movement as something that is important to me, but I'm stuck on what to make as a sculpture to get across my point. I thought about making a baby wrapped in a blanket (which is actually a calendar with a big red X on the 18th (Since that's the day that pro lifer's think that the heartbeat starts)) and when you flip the baby around it's hollowed out and black with a dot in the middle signifying the cluster of cells that it actually is. I'm not super happy with this idea, and I wanted some help brainstorming because as a white male I can't even come close to knowing what it's like as a woman. Any ideas for a sculpture? Thank you so much!
You could do something to demonstrate the scale. Have a woman's abdomen with a cut out to show the cluster of cells as true to scale as you could do them.
Hmmm. Maybe a coat hanger on a plaque with the Roe V Wade name and date on it? Or one woman holding a coat hanger, another woman holding two pills or a scalpel. With or without RvW and the date on it. Ooh, or maybe a woman with pills/scalpel handing them to a woman holding a coat hanger, dated Jan 22, 1973.
Or a grangrenous uterus.
Or a woman bleeding out next to a bloody half straightened hanger and the words Never Again somewhere
Oh man. That'd definitely get the point across.
The heart starts beating about 3 weeks after fertilization. That's around day 21. http://www.ehd.org/dev_article_unit4.php I've never heard a prolifer mention anything about day 18. Where are you getting that from?
https://prolifeacrossamerica.org/baby-developmental-facts/ "18 days from conception, heart begins to beat, with the baby’s own blood."
Seems to check out as mostly true though. They are a few days off. And it begins to pump blood closer to the 4 th week. Naturally they will go with earliest possible time. Whereas a prochoice source would go with the latest. I remember when I was pregnant I heard the baby's heartbeat at 4 weeks.

what message do you hope to get across?
How about a sculpture of a baby's head popping and exploding? I am referencing a recent post by a father who chose not to abort, but then had to watch his baby daughter suffer and die a horrible death.
That post should be read by ALL anti-choicers
maybe  a women chained to to an embryo/ foetus ?
This would probably help. It shows that different stages of development. http://www.ehd.org/resources_bpd_illustrated.php?page=10
Aren't we all just a cluster of cells? Tbh, I am prolife and that wouldn't really resonate with me. I think sculpting a crying woman holding a dead baby with the words, "Help me" might move some prolifers to realize that we need to be active in more than just legislation. Just my thoughts anyway.
Prolifer here- reading through these suggestions I would probably find the coat hanger/ roe vs wade themes most effective because they do take into consideration of safety and the consequences if abortion were not available. Anything regarding fetus development, scale, heartbeat or a women chained to an embryo wouldn't make me even bat an eye. no pro lifer thinks a few week old embryo resembles a small scale fully developed baby. That isn't their argument. but good luck on your project! I love when people can artistically challenge a belief in a powerful way, whether I agree with it or not.

This definitely won't stop the fucking conservatives from trying though.
Good



I didn’t even want to have sex in the first place but she pressured me so compellingly over those first few months of college, of infatuation and sexual awakening.  I was so wrapped up in her I could feel the thirteen years of Catholic schooling bending to her indomitable will.  That’s why I bought the condoms, which is a terrible embarrassment for any Catholic.  The great Catholic paradox of sexuality: you shouldn’t have sex outside of marriage, but if you do, you sure as fuck shouldn’t get someone pregnant, but if you do, you best put abortion out of your mind, but also don’t wear condoms.  I’d love to know how many abortions were a result of Catholics avoiding condoms.But I wasn’t thinking about any of that when I bought the condoms.  I bought them out of fear of my own weakness and lack of self-control.  No Catholic wants to go through the shame of an unwanted pregnancy, but she's not Catholic.It wasn’t a day later when she pulled me close for the umpteenth time and talked to me in ways no woman ever had before.  This time my scruples were awash with alcohol and I laughed out-loud at the ridiculousness of sweating for years over such a simple and obvious act.  Twenty years of church and thirteen years of school don’t often stand up to a million years of evolution.  Human nature most often wins.Were she to become pregnant, she'd abort the baby, I'm sure.  It would mean sacrificing her life and career in order to give this child a life of considerably less than she will be able to offer a child in the future as a Stanford graduate, etc, etc.“So you believe that abortion is morally wrong?” she asks, in her gentlest tone.“Yes, I do."“And if you could, you would require me to adopt instead of abort?”“I never thought I’d get a woman pregnant, but I’d say that I’d request you carry the child to term.  I can’t demand it - you have rights in the matter.”“I should think so, thanks.  But if it were up to you, no abortion?”“Perhaps in cases where the fetus is certain to be misshapen or die quickly and the mother’s life is a stake, but I don’t like that people use abortion as a form of birth control.  That, to me, is distinctly immoral.”She was quiet for a moment, a very long moment.“Do you believe it’s your prerogative to relegate your belief on abortion across all the people of our nation?”Now I am quiet. No, I do not belief I have the right to relegate my beliefs across an entire nation, especially one founded upon the ideals freedom.The shame I felt at that moment was eventually overwhelmed by a pride in the knowledge that, given a strong enough argument, I was capable to changing my deepest convictions.When's the last time you changed a major conviction?
Thank you, OP, for thinking juuuuust a little bit deeper about the subject. Congratulations on being swayed by a rational argument. It doesn't get better than that.
Thanks op. I'd say that your original premise is wrong though, people generally don't use abortion as primary birth control because they want to, it's generally because they don't understand their options/how pregnancy works (if they didn't receive proper sex education) or because they don't have access to birth control that works for them. Some women have way more barriers than others, affordability, have a primary care doctor, getting to appointments, body rejects certain methods... if all that were easy we'd see a much lower rate of abortion. It's much easier to have an IUD, daily pill/patch/ring/whatever.
I know I'm way late to this thread. But this is so true, and I'm a pro lifer. I can not for the life of me understand why people who are pro life are also against sex education. It should go hand an hand. I think the key to having less abortions is to be strongly promoting sex education and birth control information. I'm a Christian but I do not in any way believe that a religious stance should stand in the way of information. I believe abortions should be rare because all men and women should be painfully aware of all risks and consequences of sex and have every tool to prevent those consequences and to be smart. I feel like the only logical way to try to prevent abortions is to give women MORE access to healthcare, and education. Not less.
The fact that those things don't happen is why I'm pro choice. That and the extreme cuts to social welfare programs. And rape and domestic violence.
If you truly think abortion is the killing of a human person, wouldn't you want society to acknowledge that? What if abolitionists in the 1800s said, "I believe African-Americans are people, but I don't expect the whole nation to acknowledge it. That's a personal choice." As uncomfortable as some people might find it, morals sometimes should be imposed on society. I don't care if some people disagree with the immorality of rape, murder, theft, etc. I still think society should not do these things. They are terrible wrongs. Same goes for abortion. It's not a novel concept.
Forced gestation is slavery.
It's no more slavery than "forcing" parents to care for their born children, at least until the parents go through the proper steps to let the state take over.
Wrong. This is slavery AND torture. exhaustion (weariness common from first weeks) altered appetite and senses of taste and smell nausea and vomiting (50% of women, first trimester) heartburn and indigestion constipation weight gain dizziness and light-headedness bloating, swelling, fluid retention hemmorhoids abdominal cramps yeast infections congested, bloody nose acne and mild skin disorders skin discoloration (chloasma, face and abdomen) mild to severe backache and strain increased headaches difficulty sleeping, and discomfort while sleeping increased urination and incontinence bleeding gums pica breast pain and discharge swelling of joints, leg cramps, joint pain difficulty sitting, standing in later pregnancy inability to take regular medications shortness of breath higher blood pressure hair loss or increased facial/body hair tendency to anemia curtailment of ability to participate in some sports and activities infection including from serious and potentially fatal disease (pregnant women are immune suppressed compared with non-pregnant women, and are more susceptible to fungal and certain other diseases) extreme pain on delivery hormonal mood changes, including normal post-partum depression continued post-partum exhaustion and recovery period (exacerbated if a c-section -- major surgery -- is required, sometimes taking up to a full year to fully recover) Normal, expectable, or frequent PERMANENT side effects of pregnancy: stretch marks (worse in younger women) loose skin permanent weight gain or redistribution abdominal and vaginal muscle weakness pelvic floor disorder (occurring in as many as 35% of middle-aged former child-bearers and 50% of elderly former child-bearers, associated with urinary and rectal incontinence, discomfort and reduced quality of life -- aka prolapsed utuerus, the malady sometimes badly fixed by the transvaginal mesh) changes to breasts increased foot size varicose veins scarring from episiotomy or c-section other permanent aesthetic changes to the body (all of these are downplayed by women, because the culture values youth and beauty) increased proclivity for hemmorhoids loss of dental and bone calcium (cavities and osteoporosis) higher lifetime risk of developing Altzheimer's newer research indicates microchimeric cells, other bi-directional exchanges of DNA, chromosomes, and other bodily material between fetus and mother (including with "unrelated" gestational surrogates) Occasional complications and side effects: complications of episiotomy spousal/partner abuse hyperemesis gravidarum temporary and permanent injury to back severe scarring requiring later surgery (especially after additional pregnancies) dropped (prolapsed) uterus (especially after additional pregnancies, and other pelvic floor weaknesses -- 11% of women, including cystocele, rectocele, and enterocele) pre-eclampsia (edema and hypertension, the most common complication of pregnancy, associated with eclampsia, and affecting 7 - 10% of pregnancies) eclampsia (convulsions, coma during pregnancy or labor, high risk of death) gestational diabetes placenta previa anemia (which can be life-threatening) thrombocytopenic purpura severe cramping embolism (blood clots) medical disability requiring full bed rest (frequently ordered during part of many pregnancies varying from days to months for health of either mother or baby) diastasis recti, also torn abdominal muscles mitral valve stenosis (most common cardiac complication) serious infection and disease (e.g. increased risk of tuberculosis) hormonal imbalance ectopic pregnancy (risk of death) broken bones (ribcage, "tail bone") hemorrhage and numerous other complications of delivery refractory gastroesophageal reflux disease aggravation of pre-pregnancy diseases and conditions (e.g. epilepsy is present in .5% of pregnant women, and the pregnancy alters drug metabolism and treatment prospects all the while it increases the number and frequency of seizures) severe post-partum depression and psychosis research now indicates a possible link between ovarian cancer and female fertility treatments, including "egg harvesting" from infertile women and donors research also now indicates correlations between lower breast cancer survival rates and proximity in time to onset of cancer of last pregnancy research also indicates a correlation between having six or more pregnancies and a risk of coronary and cardiovascular disease Less common (but serious) complications: peripartum cardiomyopathy cardiopulmonary arrest magnesium toxicity severe hypoxemia/acidosis massive embolism increased intracranial pressure, brainstem infarction molar pregnancy, gestational trophoblastic disease (like a pregnancy-induced cancer) malignant arrhythmi circulatory collapse placental abruption obstetric fistula More permanent side effects: future infertility permanent disability death.
First of all, I'm sure parents who don't want their born children can also make a list as long. Second, you're treating pregnancy as if it is a disease and not a natural phenomenon.
So death is a consequence of raising born children? Lol no And anyone can feed a born child. The child can be passed off to someone else. That is not the case with pregnancy. And pregnancy can cause many heath risks. Lots of things are "natural". Ebola for example. Do I have a right to force you to accept it? Nope! Next?
Yo, something like 98% of abortions are for non-medical reasons, so... Should we outlaw that 98%, or was that just an excuse?
And you have conveniently ignored mental health reasons. Mental health IS medical.
Wrong ... Here is a list of health complications cause by pregnancy... so unless you can definitively say that none of these will happen to the woman from the time she first conceives your argument is void... exhaustion (weariness common from first weeks) altered appetite and senses of taste and smell nausea and vomiting (50% of women, first trimester) heartburn and indigestion constipation weight gain dizziness and light-headedness bloating, swelling, fluid retention hemmorhoids abdominal cramps yeast infections congested, bloody nose acne and mild skin disorders skin discoloration (chloasma, face and abdomen) mild to severe backache and strain increased headaches difficulty sleeping, and discomfort while sleeping increased urination and incontinence bleeding gums pica breast pain and discharge swelling of joints, leg cramps, joint pain difficulty sitting, standing in later pregnancy inability to take regular medications shortness of breath higher blood pressure hair loss or increased facial/body hair tendency to anemia curtailment of ability to participate in some sports and activities infection including from serious and potentially fatal disease (pregnant women are immune suppressed compared with non-pregnant women, and are more susceptible to fungal and certain other diseases) extreme pain on delivery hormonal mood changes, including normal post-partum depression continued post-partum exhaustion and recovery period (exacerbated if a c-section -- major surgery -- is required, sometimes taking up to a full year to fully recover) Normal, expectable, or frequent PERMANENT side effects of pregnancy: stretch marks (worse in younger women) loose skin permanent weight gain or redistribution abdominal and vaginal muscle weakness pelvic floor disorder (occurring in as many as 35% of middle-aged former child-bearers and 50% of elderly former child-bearers, associated with urinary and rectal incontinence, discomfort and reduced quality of life -- aka prolapsed utuerus, the malady sometimes badly fixed by the transvaginal mesh) changes to breasts increased foot size varicose veins scarring from episiotomy or c-section other permanent aesthetic changes to the body (all of these are downplayed by women, because the culture values youth and beauty) increased proclivity for hemmorhoids loss of dental and bone calcium (cavities and osteoporosis) higher lifetime risk of developing Altzheimer's newer research indicates microchimeric cells, other bi-directional exchanges of DNA, chromosomes, and other bodily material between fetus and mother (including with "unrelated" gestational surrogates) Occasional complications and side effects: complications of episiotomy spousal/partner abuse hyperemesis gravidarum temporary and permanent injury to back severe scarring requiring later surgery (especially after additional pregnancies) dropped (prolapsed) uterus (especially after additional pregnancies, and other pelvic floor weaknesses -- 11% of women, including cystocele, rectocele, and enterocele) pre-eclampsia (edema and hypertension, the most common complication of pregnancy, associated with eclampsia, and affecting 7 - 10% of pregnancies) eclampsia (convulsions, coma during pregnancy or labor, high risk of death) gestational diabetes placenta previa anemia (which can be life-threatening) thrombocytopenic purpura severe cramping embolism (blood clots) medical disability requiring full bed rest (frequently ordered during part of many pregnancies varying from days to months for health of either mother or baby) diastasis recti, also torn abdominal muscles mitral valve stenosis (most common cardiac complication) serious infection and disease (e.g. increased risk of tuberculosis) hormonal imbalance ectopic pregnancy (risk of death) broken bones (ribcage, "tail bone") hemorrhage and numerous other complications of delivery refractory gastroesophageal reflux disease aggravation of pre-pregnancy diseases and conditions (e.g. epilepsy is present in .5% of pregnant women, and the pregnancy alters drug metabolism and treatment prospects all the while it increases the number and frequency of seizures) severe post-partum depression and psychosis research now indicates a possible link between ovarian cancer and female fertility treatments, including "egg harvesting" from infertile women and donors research also now indicates correlations between lower breast cancer survival rates and proximity in time to onset of cancer of last pregnancy research also indicates a correlation between having six or more pregnancies and a risk of coronary and cardiovascular disease Less common (but serious) complications: peripartum cardiomyopathy cardiopulmonary arrest magnesium toxicity severe hypoxemia/acidosis massive embolism increased intracranial pressure, brainstem infarction molar pregnancy, gestational trophoblastic disease (like a pregnancy-induced cancer) malignant arrhythmi circulatory collapse placental abruption obstetric fistula More permanent side effects: future infertility permanent disability death.
Phenomenon: a fact or situation that is observed to exist or happen, especially one whose cause or explanation is in question Pregnancy's cause isn't ever in question.
2. Phenomenon: the object of a person's perception; what the senses or the mind notice. This is the one I was using. Words can have more than one definition.
Making abortions illegal isn't going to stop abortions. It's going to stop safe abortions. I guess you care more about an embryo than a grown woman?
Making abortions illegal alone isn't going to stop abortions. However, banning them and passing federal support for struggling women / families along with free counseling and medical help will reduce numbers and keep things safer.
Abortions are safe. When you take that option away from desperate women who cannot afford a child, they will seek out an abortion and possibly die of a massive infection. No amount of Counselling will make up for the fact that a woman is being forced to risk her life and give birth. Why do we have to reduce the number of a medical procedure? What I choose to do to my uterus isn't the your business.

If we can't even try with universal healthcare what makes you think the state is going to offer up aide to struggling women and babies? Repealing ACA, talk of defunding Title IX and X, Medicare, medicade and food stamps, but we can give away money to women for having babies they don't want?? What world do you live in?

As long as you continue to compare a born child to a fetus.. you will lose.
I'm sure there were people 150 years ago saying: "As long as you keep comparing whites to blacks, you will lose." This will be my last message to you here because /r/prochoice is applying a 10+ minute wait between comments for me. You can PM me, but I'm not waiting several minutes between comments in this sub anymore.
You can't wait 10 minutes but you feel you have the right to demand that women endure physical torment for nine months and  days of physical torture? And last I checked, the difference between things inside of of body and things outside of a body was a bit more than color pigmentation. Unless you are suggesting that 150 years ago black people were ripping white women's vaginas apart .. I can see no common ground in you pseudo argument. You can't argue the subject. You have straw-men and red herrings all over the place. I am learning nothing from this discussion other than you have no real argument. So I can see no reason to continue in public or private message. Have a good night.
No, I'm pretty sure you don't lose humanity based on where you are, ever. If I walk into any building, I'm still a person. Lock myself in a room, still a person. That fetus in your uterus, doesn't matter where it is, still a person.
That is your opinion.. not a fact. And a woman is not a building.. women are not property!!!! A building has no emotions .. a building doesn't have to make it to work .. A building does not have other baby buildings to take care of. A building cannot die giving birth. A woman is not an inanimate possession.
Men walk away all of the time. So do some women. You are ignoring the concept of bodily autonomy. No one of any age has the right to use another persons body against their will. So in that respect a fetus has the same rights as everyone else. And no... taking a kid to the shelter is not the same as a fetus using my kidneys. Don't pretend that it is.
Both parents can't walk away together without taking the proper legal measures. No I'm not. I'm recognizing that there are some values which have priority above others. Life has priority above autonomy always. In that way, I'm also treating everyone equally. I didn't say it's "the same". I'm saying one can't be called slavery anymore than the other. I'm showing how absurd it is to call it "slavery" at all.
Wrong .. infants are abandoned all the time. And no you aren't treating everyone equally .. I can't force you to give me a kidney even though you can live with one and I will die if I can't take it from you. We do not force men to donate blood to save lives. You are only violating the bodily autonomy of women in favor of a non-viable sack of parasitic human cells with no cognitive ability. And yes, it can be called slavery and torture. Slavery is the forced labor of one for the sole benefit of another. Shall I define torture as well? Come back when you make organ and blood donations mandatory for everyone. Until then, this is not about life. It's about control.
You're ignoring the concept of murder. No one has the right to take away the life of another innocent person willfully.
No.. murder is a legal term meaning "unlawful killing". And since a fetus could kill a woman.. abortion is self-defense. You cannot require one person to risk their lives for the sole benefit of another. And a fetus is neither innocent nor guilty. It has no cognitive ability. And just what is it that you believe the woman is guilty of? Sex? That's not a crime.
Will you be paying for the children you're forcing all of these women to give birth to?
Oh no they won't! They Will throw around words like "personal responsibility". Then pretend that those words translate into actual money. Reality does not touch these people. They are in capable of actually understanding true human suffering.
Also- let me add to this argument, that there is a different between not wanting a child and not wanting to be pregnant. Spare me the 'don't want to have a baby, don't have Sex' argument for 2 reasons. Not having sex requires celibacy, which is typically practiced by religious people and asexuals, something I doubt is going to be anymore accepted that being homosexual because anything other than straight is 'wrong' Sex is NOT only for making babies. Since the dawn of time, sex has played an integral part in healthy relationships. Sex is good for your brain chemistry and is one of a females best ways to keep a partner around long enough to raise offspring to maturity. Without a male protector/hunter many women in foraging societies wouldn't have been able to raise those children on their own, due to a lack of ability to collect enough resources on their own. Bam. An entire term of Anthro 332 summed up in 3 sentences
Double think. You believe it is wrong for your beliefs and convictions to infringe on the freedoms of others. This conviction made you believe it was then okay to kill a developing baby? To remove completely all their life and rights? She made a free choice to have sex and get pregnant. Personal responsibility means something.
Consent to sex == consent to pregnancy.
Sex -> pregnancy, so you consented. Just like breaking the law -> go to jail.
So if you get into a car and wreck.. you consented to the wreck? Lol no Pregnancy is only one possible outcome and it is curable .. just like an internal bleed from a wreck. Consent must be continual. It may be withdrawn. And the fact that you equal sex to a crime and pregnancy as punishment only proves that you seek to punish women for having sex. What shall the man's punishment be? In your little scenario, if sex equals pregnancy and the woman dies giving birth...shouldn't the man be held accountable for murder? He knew that was a possible outcome of having sex so didn't he in fact MURDER that woman? If your answer is "no"... then surely you can see The ridiculousness of your stance.
No one of any age has the right to use another person's body against their will. So in that respect, a fetus has the same rights as everyone else. Happy now?
Correct
No I don't want to have a PM convo with you .. for the third time, I say this. But please tell me in public , all about how you think a 10 yr old rape victim should be forced to give birth even if it costs her the ability to have wanted children in the future and how that's all ok because you support welfare. Yes, women should be forced into poverty and just remain there because there were slaves 150 years ago and there should be slaves now. And those slaves should be women. Edited: Freddy needs a lesson in "ongoing consent".
It seems that Freddie has boundary issues. No I don't want to talk to you in PM. Your control freak nonsense won't work on me. So you can stop messaging me now. And your fallacies are glaring.Here is a list ... https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_fallacies
This was hardly an argument. You should go to confession. Peace.
Yes! Because we all need a pedophile's forgiveness.
Very intellectual argument /s
Just the facts.
I think your hormones were clouding your judgement. Let's put the logic to the test. "Do you believe in infanticide?" "No." “Do you believe it’s your prerogative to relegate your belief on infanticide across all the people of our nation?” Sorry but this is the stupidest reason for changing your mind I've ever heard. I imagined when I was reading this that there would be some intellectual discourse. Shit dude. Stop thinking with your dick and start using your brain.
Who is talking about "infanticide"?
Are you to stupid to understand a logical comparison? The point is that if the fetus is in fact morally equal to a born child then imposing rights would be completely acceptable to OP.
You should google the definition of the word "fact". A fetus is not the same as a born child. And are you too stupid to understand that comparing unalike things is a fallacy? I sent you an easy to read link when you were raping my inbox. Oh.. you didn't like that comparison.
A fetus has the same cells, the same chromosomes, the same beating heart. A change in location does not change a person. If I leave my house, I don't change into a different person.
You move from private to public domain. There is a distinction. You don't rip the door off of the house when you walk out do you? Is the house screaming in pain when you leave? And you own your house. You can't own a person. Comparing a woman to property is very telling. A very early fetal "heart beat" is not an actual 4 chamber functioning heart. And again .. a "beating heart" is not the definition of life. Brain function is.
Did you read my response? I said morally equivalent. An infant is not the same thing as an adult but they are morally equivalent. Get a grip. Don't be so obtuse.
Your ad hominem proves the weakness of your argument and your frustration at being wrong. Morals are subjective. So you have zero proof of your statement. Because of these two things, you have lost the debate and you are dismissed.
Hi! Here's a summary of what an "Ad Hominem" is: Argumentum ad ^^hominem (from the Latin, "to the person") is an informal logical fallacy that occurs when someone attempts to refute an argument by attacking the source making it rather than the argument itself. The fallacy is a subset of the genetic ^^fallacy as it attacks the source of the argument, which is irrelevant to to the truth or falsity of the argument. An ad hominem should not be confused with an insult, which attacks the person but does not seek to rebut the person's argument. Of note: if the subject of discussion is whether somebody is credible -- eg, "believe X because I am Y" -- then it is not an ad hominem to criticize their qualifications.
I haven't used an ad hominem. I didn't even know we were having a debate? Whether morality is subjective or objective is arguable in and of itself. But you seem to not get the concept of setting up a premise and following the logic. Here have one more try. If a fetus is morally equivalent to an infant then enforcing laws to protect them is justified. You may not agree with the premise ( a fetus is morally equivalent to an infant) but OP is Catholic and believes otherwise which was my original point.
No.. morals are subjective and the OP decided that a born woman was more valuable than a fetus. Do try to follow along.
Just because you say so right? You are presenting the argument of a child. Really? Where? From what I read he decided that he does not have the right to impose his moral standards via law onto others. And that is a shitty argument considering we impose moral standards onto others via law all the time.
Again.. morales are subjective. You don't have to like it. And by saying he had no right to force his will on others .. he conceded that a woman has rights. Again .. try to keep up.

In the eyes of the law an underdeveloped bundle of cells is NOT equal to a fetus so

The great news is that your beliefs, however precious they are to you, don't extend to everyone in this country who doesn't share them. Thankfully. :) Your personal opinion on the matter really means nothing until you're a woman in the situation of an unplanned or unhealthy pregnancy.
Thank you for acknowledging that both sides suffer from unruly and unhelpful members, but more importantly thank you for attributing love to Christ as opposed to vitriol.  I've seen no evidence to support Christ being vitriolic, despite the many heinous crimes committed in his name.
Is not abortion a violent crime? Would you accept any other act of violence or death inflicted on an innocent human being because you can't force your opinion into law? For example, many other parts of the world accept rape and abuse against women. Do you agree these acts of violence should be remain legal because your opinion that they are wrong should not be forced.
Taking a pill is not "violent". Have you ever seen a woman giving birth? THAT is violent. And a fetus is not a "human being". Human cells, yes. And it has no rights to anything.
So if I give my toddler a pill that will kill her and she dies have I committed an act of violence? I am a woman who has given birth. A fetus is biological a living and human organism just like you and me. Legally that depends on which country you live in. Many countries have prolife legislation and protect the preborn child's/human fetuses right to life (right to not be killed). Morally, I think a fetus/preborn child has the same inalienable rights as any other human.
You should google the definition of the word "violence" and "fallacy". By your definition, you are the same as a tadpole. What separates us from other living creatures is our brain. A fetus  has no cognitive ability. I  value quality of life over quantity of life. More is not always better. I do not Believe that anyone or anything has a right to my body unless I choose to allow it. Anything else is rape and slavery. The UN considers forced gestation  to be torture. Have you noticed that the countries that have outlawed abortion are third world? And incredibly barbaric. There is your "violence". Edited for spelling.
Tadpoles don't have human cells
Human feces has human cells. Don't flush! lmao
Actually the one UN Bureaucrat said that denying abortion access is torture not that pregnancy is  torture. Those are very different things. Also, most countries in the world restrict abortion. In most of Europe abortion is illegal after 12 weeks (with life/health) exception. Last I checked two of the biggest prolife nations (Ireland and Poland) are first world countries. There are only 4 countries that allow unrestricted abortion and two of them are tyrannical (China and North Korea). Every animal has a brain.
Denying abortion is forced gestation. Aka forced pregnancy. You are using semantics to claim that forced gestation is not torture. And perhaps you should do a bit more research on the UN's stance. You are incorrect. I did not say "without restrictions"... I said "outlawed"... care to guess what other countries have outlawed abortion? Six nations – the Holy See, Malta, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Nicaragua and Chile – do not allow abortion under any circumstances. Yeah.. great places lol And shall I tell you what has happened to many women since Ireland has band all abortions? Women are dying and leaving the country in droves to obtain abortions. And I'm so glad that you mentioned China. They actually have forced abortions. Do you know why? I will tell you because those who do not learn from history are doomed to repeat it. About 60 years ago, china use the women as brooding mares. They outlaw abortion and birth control. Within two generations the poor population was unsustainable. Children sold to the sex slave trade.. working in sweat shops and dying in the streets ... oh and of course the crime rate soared!! And that is why the government should not interfere in a woman's reproductive choices. And yes I am aware that all animals have a brain ... do you deny that a human brain is different than the rest of the brains in the animal kingdom? Or are you just like a lizard?
Here is what was said, "denial of legally available health services such as abortion". Denying a service that is legally available to others is different than pregnancy. It is the discriminatory treatment that they are referring to torture not unwanted pregnancy itself. Who said anything about banning abortions outright? Almost every prolifer I know makes exceptions for health/life. Ireland has never banned all abortions. The have always allowed for health/life exception. Actually Ireland has one of the highest maternal health rates. http://www.thejournal.ie/maternal-deaths-mortality-rate-ireland-pro-life-campaign-statistics-2921139-Aug2016/ What? What are you ranting about? Are you suggesting that forced abortions are ok? Lol. China is a tyrannical country. That's the problem. Every species is unique. I agree human beings are different. But I don't agree that it is our brains that make us special.
You don't have to agree with any of it. And doctor's in Ireland are allowing women to die because they are afraid of the legal ramifications. Fact is .. the woman's life is always at risk. There is no guarantee that medical intervention can help or arrive in time. I don't care if it's only 1 woman. No one of any age has the right to use another person'a  body against their will. In that respect a fetus has the same rights as everyone else. Happy now? Forcing women to give birth or die trying is morally reprehensible in my eyes. None of your condescending and illogical nonsense is going to change that. Added link: http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/ireland/9679840/Pregnant-woman-dies-in-Ireland-after-being-denied-an-abortion.html And imo anyone that would force a rape victim to give birth is reprehensible. And their opinion means absolutely nothing to me. Personally, I would have never wanted anyone to force my mother to gestate and give birth to me. If she had wanted an abortion,. She would have had my blessing ... but since I would have had no cognitive ability at the time, I wouldn't have known and would not have cared. How much do you hate your mother to say she should have been forced to birth you? Self-important much? I believe in quality of life over quantity of life. Every. Single. Time.

Every animal has a brain sure, then why is it okay to slaughter pigs and cows? THAT my friend is violent but we do it anyway because they will argue that animals don't have the same kind of soul or their brain isn't the same as humans. If every animal has a brain, why don't they have the same rights as humans? Why should an unborn bundle of cells be treated better than a born, living, breathing animal with a sophisticated mind?
I wasn't the one arguing that a brain is what makes us morally significant so I don't really see how your point is valid? I wasn't the one arguing that a brain is what makes us morally significant so I don't really see how your point is valid?
Why are you on /r/prochoice, a safe space, babbling thing about being anti choice?
To help save some souls looks like. Some practicing Christians feel it is their duty to go out of their way to convert people and otherwise save them from hell. It gets interesting in situations like this where not all sects of Christianity believe that abortion is a sin. OP is Catholic where it is a sin, so I guess that's moot. It really boils down to some religions not believing in personal freedoms. If you have them and choose to exercise them in a way that you are going to go to hell for, you might as well not have them.
Christians barge into /r/exchristian and /r/atheism for the same reasons.
I am a pro choice christian because IT IS NOT MY BODY. My body my choice, her body her choice. I'm not going to convert you to a religion that I believe is true but in the grand scheme of things may not be
And I'm glad your not one of the sects who feels the need to berate me if I don't think like you. :)
Because of rule 3, I imagine


I don't think Anti-Choice is any better than their labeling of us as Pro-Abortion. We're Pro-Choice, they're Anti-Abortion; those are the most prescriptively accurate labels in my opinion.



Surely if that was the only thing, there'd be a whole lot more. People generally don't commit extreme acts like this without a confluence of factors, with one thing or another acting as the match to the gasoline, as it were.

I mean to say that if we're interested in preventing this from happening again, we ought to try to identify all the contributing factors and control for those inasmuch as possible.  We know they're outraged about the existence of abortion, but that's difficult to control.  We know mental illness likely plays a part, but that's also difficult to manage in terms of violence prevention, if a given person doesn't identify the problem or seek help.  We know that media plays a part, and that seems like a much easier target to try to change.

I meant more along the lines of rhetoric and tone.  I have no problem with people discussing abortion accurately and honestly. Like I said above, all the attempts to eradicate abortion haven't exactly been successful.  So in terms of harm reduction, trying to not inciting people who are persuadable in such a manner seems like a good compromise to me in the meantime.

I was expecting it to be super stressful and intense -- it was actually the opposite! Although it was definitely a brief shock to the system to see a big crowd of protesters in my very liberal city, the shock quickly wore off and I ended up having a really nice time. The escorts were about 50/50 male/female, a huge variety of ages and backgrounds, and everyone was overwhelmingly friendly and fun to talk to. The patients seemed genuinely grateful that we were there, and there was just a real sense of camaraderie among everyone.Just wanted to share this because I was really nervous about escorting prior to this morning, and now I'm looking forwarding making it a regular thing.
Rock on with yer bad self! Thanks for doing super-cool work.



In Ohio, Governor John Kasich has vetoed a piece of anti-abortion legislation that would have banned abortion from the moment a heartbeat can be detected, which is usually about six weeks into pregnancy. But he did sign into law Tuesday another extreme piece of anti-abortion legislation that bans the procedure after 20 weeks of pregnancy, even in the case of rape or incest. The ACLU has vowed to challenge the law, which it says is unconstitutional.
How exactly would roe v. wade be enforced at this point? Would the SCOTUS have to officially declare the piece of legislature as unconstitutional?

False. It's never too late to allow a woman to control her own body, no matter how developed the fetus inside her is. It's one of the  other: the rights of women are given priority at the expense of fetuses, or the rights of fetuses are given priority at the expense of women. There is no compromise or middle ground, it has to be one or the other. Feminists and people who respect women pick women over fetuses, and people who want to publish women for being sexually active pick fetuses.

Related, https://www.reddit.com/r/science/comments/5icfi4/abortion_is_found_to_have_little_effect_on_womens/



Use contraceptions or abstinence. It's horrible that such an awful disease is prevalent :(
What would you tell a pregnant woman who sought an abortion because she contracted Zika?



The lesser of two evils I suppose. Still not great though.




To be fair though 3,952,841 babies are born annually in the United States. That means only 0.0002% of women died. Compared with 0.000006%. Both are extremely minuscule in terms of chance and rare.
And if a woman doesn't want to take that risk, it's for her to decide. Not you.
I don't believe that you would hold this position in a logically consistent manner. Think parental responsibility. There is a much higher chance of a parent getting sick and suffering if their child has the flu for example. However, I doubt you would advocate that he/she can leave their child out in the cold (unfed) simply because they do not have to take the risk that goes with the duty of care they are legally and morally bound to. That being said, my comment was just to clarify the numbers not to get into a heated debate. I think our conversation will go beyond the scope.
No, but they're perfectly within their rights to leave the child with someone who is willing to take the risk. They can even surrender it to the state if they're unable to find someone willing. That's why analogies between fetuses and children will never work.
Imagine a scenario where they can not transfer responsibility. Cabin in the woods type scenario. Or just no one wants to take over.
No. The cabin in the woods thing is so blatantly unrealistic that I'm not going to entertain it as a hypothetical. Someone is not going to go to some backwoods cabin with a child they do not want. I'm sorry, but that's ridiculous. That is a red herring argument, and that is a fallacious argument. As for no one wanting to take over, that's why I mentioned surrendering it to the state. There are safe haven laws in all fifty states. Even past the deadline for legal surrender, a child can be placed for adoption anytime before the age of 18. So that's not an argument either.
Perhaps they wanted them but then they developed the flu and they don't want to care for them anymore. Using your logic I think I would ask, why shouldn't they have a right to relinquish control? It doesn't have to be realistic in order for it to be an exercise in moral analysis. That's how moral experiments work. Adoption takes time. Even taking a child to safe haven requires the use of your body. Even that might be to much for a parent who is sick with fever and the flu. I think you see my point though. That we do require the use of parents body under duty of care. I think it would be fairer to say that we both agree that there are limits to bodily autonomy. We just don't agree on where those limits lie.

So, we can't have contraception OR abortion. Please get me the fuck out of this country.
Only married couples with enough saved up for the wife to be able to stay home for 18 years are responsible enough to have sex.  A woman having sex in any other situation is a selfish monster, a slut, or a murderer (or all three).
Guilty as charged. String me up.



If anyone sincerely believed that a heartbeat is what makes something a person, they would be vegan because most animals have heartbeats.  A heartbeat has nothing at all to do with personhood.
As a prolifer I don't really think anyone actually believes that personhood begins with a heart beat. I think it's more along the lines of, if we are going to pick some arbitrary line and not just include all living human organisms then let's go with a heartbeat because we can detect it very early on and at the fetus will be protected throughout most of the pregnancy.
That's simplifying it a bit. Animals are never human and they don't ever become human. Applying this to animals is irrelevant. However, there is a debate about when a human fetus becomes a person, and so having a heartbeat is somewhat compelling as an indicator of when a person might exist.
Some animals have an intelligence equivalent to humans. Koko the gorilla has an IQ between 75 and 90. We can also get heart cells to beat in a Petri dish , sentience is more important than a heartbeat for determine personhood .
I would say this is a little bit of equivocation. As far as I know, no animal has even been shown to ask a question. There are various ways to talk about "intelligence", and while animals might rank up with humans in some cognitive areas, I don't think you can place them in the same category as humans. The focus is on the fact that the body is at the stage where it can cause its own heart to beat. Development is the focus in this argument. The beating heart is not supposed to mean anything in a vacuum. You can take a severed heart and make it beat with a current. No one denied that. Your own criticism still applies to you. Animals are sentient. You haven't escaped the problem you pointed out in another indicator.
Alex once asked what color he was. But he's kind of the exception here.
I am actually aware of this and the article you linked highlights the fact that it was controversial and lacked reproducibility. It has been criticized by scientists and by no means should be pointed to as a clear example of an animal asking a question.
What makes a person so special? If you apply the thinking that something with a heartbeat should be given the right to life, then anything with a heartbeat shouldn't be killed for any reason.
I never said that. The embryo is human
I think you are asking the wrong question here. I think you should be asking,
How is being human relevant?  Would it be alright to kill and eat ET like he's a chicken just because he's not human?
What your saying is interesting and worth consideration, but practically speaking, there is no ET that we are aware of. We are aware of animals and humans, the latter which should not be killed. I mean, society concerns itself will not taking human lives far more than it concerns itself with not taking the lives of animals or ET.
It's a thought experiment that proves that species has nothing to do with personhood, except that members of a species tend to develop certain capabilities that make them worthy of relevant rights.  There is no need for an ET race to exist for my thought experiment to prove its intended point.  It shows that the wrongness of murder has to do with an individual's mental and emotional capabilities and not their genome. On Earth, with our lack of having contacted another intelligent species, we still assign animals rights because they have their own mental and emotional capabilities.  We adjust how we treat specific creatures based on what is known about them.  If it is found that a creature can feel physical pain, it becomes an ethical requirement that we avoid causing it unnecessary pain.  We also don't treat all members of a species identically regardless of their individual uniqueness.  A chicken with no ability to feel pain needs no right to freedom from it. We don't even assign humans identical rights.  Children can't vote because they don't have the capacity to do it well.  Children can't object to medical procedures for the same reason. Most pro-life people believe in non-human people, even if they don't word it that way.  They tend to believe in God, Satan, angels, and demons.  These beings, whether or not they're real, demonstrate capabilities that make them worthy of their own special rights.  They may even deserve rights that humans generally don't.  People who believe in demons don't fear them as they'd fear bears, but as they'd fear bad people.
I never disagreed with you that humanity is not a criterion for personhood. If that's what you were trying to accomplish with your last post, then you'll be happy to know that I was never in disagreement there. But I do think we agree that living humans are persons, which is why I was not seeing it was relevant to talk about other species. If there is a living human, it mustn't be killed because that's a person.
Society is full of idiots and I don't care what society tends to think, nor does it matter that we haven't found a real ET yet.  The thought experiment of imagining ET proves that personhood isn't determined by species.  If I bring an opossum into a freaky science lab and augment its intelligence with brain implants, if it has the right forms of intelligence, I have made the opossum into a person.
I don't actually believe it's possible to make an animal have intellect such that they become a person. I understand you're asking me to do a thought experiment, but I just don't think what you're describing could be possible at all, in any way. Also, if ET existed, he would be a person and it would be an additional species that contains personhood. That doesn't disprove that species determines personhood. It only adds a new item to the list of species that count as persons.
From the Babycentre website, this is how a six week embryo looks, its the size of a lentil http://www.babycenter.com/6_your-pregnancy-6-weeks_1095.bc
Looks more like an alien to me. :/
We know the fetus is considered life from a zygote that's science. The problem here is bodily autonomy is what comes into play when we talk about abortion. I would like to give an example I actually saw earlier. Somebody comes up to me and stabs me in the stomach. I knew that there was risk I could be stabbed but still did not choose to be stabbed. To defend my bodily autonomy I must defend myself. When defending myself I kill the person who stabbed me. I am then protected by self defence laws and am not punished for it as the other person attacked me first unwillingly and to protect my bodily autonomy I had to kill the other person. This could apply to abortion. The fetus is unwanted even though I knew there was risk. I end up pregnant. To defend my bodily autonomy I had to "kill" the fetus to defend myself. I am then protected by my rights to an abortion. I would like to point out that it doesn't matter that the fetus doesn't know what it's doing, there's no way it can know, but it still infringes on my bodily autonomy and I can choose to defend myself. Once it is viable that's when I believe it has personhood or should have bodily autonomy itself. It is still infringing on my rights though. If I get stabbed and attack the perosn back I don't expect to be charged because the other person attack me first. Once again this can be applied to abortion. The fetus made the first move it is there without my consent, if I attack it back it is considered self defense. Just my thoughts sorry if I was a little off topic or rambled :)

It doesn't matter. You can't use someone else's body without permission.
A prolifer would say, conjoined twins can. Or a child also has positive rights (to have their basic needs met) even if the parent must use their body to provide for them.
Hopefully all of the justices will survive the next 8 years out of spite...
Pro lifer here, I was just wondering if you would state your opinion on why you are pro choice. I like to hear arguments from both sides.
When life begins isn't relevant. This sounds callous, but whether or not it's moral isn't relevant either, really. If you believe life is sacred and all life must be protected, you then must believe that the woman's life has value too. Looking at the data for countries where abortion is illegal, the rate of women who have abortions - about 1/3 - doesn't change. In a lot of cases, it actually increases. However, the one thing that does change is maternal mortality. If abortion rates don't change (i.e., no babies are saved), then obviously legislating against abortion isn't the way to go to reduce abortion. It just means more women are killed as a result. HOWEVER, what DOES work is creating programs that provide no-cost birth control to all women. France's drop in abortions after doing this is a prime example. Of course, I personally would argue that bodily autonomy of the woman trumps that of a fetus, but if you don't subscribe to that, the case for keeping it legal and reducing abortion in other ways is a pretty solid one. Tl;dr: legislating against abortion is not the way to reduce abortion.
I definitely agree with the point of better birth control access. Condoms, birth control pills, etc. should be made more readily available and accessible to help prevent unwanted pregnancy.
Better birth control access, plus better sex education.
Because no human has the right to use another person's body without explicit and ongoing consent, no matter what their reason for doing so. Life doesn't really begin. Eggs are alive. Sperm are alive. Embryos are alive. Being alive does not grant anyone or anything the right to enslave another human being.
Yes but eggs and sperm aren't genetically human. They are just another cell in the body. And yeah fuck those babies man. Fucking criminals taking a body without consent, like who do you think you are man. Death penalty for sure on that one.
If a piece of granite talks, has feelings and ideas, has conscience, feels pain, and has generally all the factors of sentience and higher reasoning, do they have rights akin to a human?  If it's these factors that determine rights, and not being a human, when what relevance does the humanity of a fetus have?
Genetics
Are you saying that a sentient creature without genes isn't deserving of rights?  For instance, an AI?
Because pregnancy isn't just an inconvenience. There are serious medical risks to consider and too many factors in play for politicians with no medical background to write exceptions around it. Being pregnant should not remove your rights to bodily autonomy. The government does not have to live with the consequences, you do. Having sex is not consent to eclampsia, hypertension, or bleeding to death, etc. The woman might also have pre-existing conditions that make pregnancy more dangerous. So much of this is too unpredictable. Women should have the option early to opt out if they're uncomfortable with the risks, and doctors should be able to present the best options to their patients when emergencies arise without being afraid of being arrested. This is what happens when doctors are afraid to break the law: Italy abortion row as woman dies after hospital miscarriage Death of Savita Halappanavar Abortion Limits Create Nightmare for Parents of Stillborn Baby
That's a very simple question with what is realistically a very complex and nuanced answer. You ask, "When does life begin?".  I would suggest that you're asking the wrong question.  You should be going back a step or two and asking "What criteria defines an entity that should be recognized as having an inalienable right to life?" After all, there are many things that have 'life' which do not have a recognized and inalienable right to it - my cheeseburger is testament to that.  The answer, then, might seem obvious - humans have a right to life, and only humans. Seems simple, right? But not so fast.  Let's think about this.  Why is it just humans?  Why not the cow, or the chicken.  They are living organisms too, just the same as humans are.  If we use "life" as the criteria for which entities have the 'right' to it, that would include not only them, but plants as well.  All flora & fauna. "Life", the state of being alive, seems then to be insufficient criteria to define the group that has that right to it. So I would then pose the question to you - what specific criteria do you believe would define and limit to an entity that should be recognized as having that inalienable right to life.  Would that criteria only be biological?  Only the human species? Let's try a thought experiment here.  Imagine first that we've figured out how to transplant someone's brain into a completely artificial body.  They are still themselves, the same memory, the same personality, the same person, but only their brain is still biologically human. Would they have a right to life? Let's go one further.  Suppose we're able to transplant a person's mind into a completely, 100% artificial body.  Again, same memories, same personality, but absolutely no biologically 'human' material.  Do they have a right to life?  Even if the body they're in is completely non-biologic? If you, like me, agree that they do, then, much like the criteria of 'life', biology in general isn't enough. I suggest that sapience, broadly speaking, is the only effective criteria for applying the right to life.  The ability to reason, the sense of self and the capacity to act as a moral agent, that is what the right to life hangs on, not simply that "life" begins. And that's just the surface.  Like I said, simple question, not so simple answer.
Sorry, My question was more on the lines of, how long is the pregnancy should abortion be legal? 4 weeks, 8 weeks, 16 weeks, etc?
I would say that external viability remains a reasonable balance between the competing interests, though with medical advancement I expect we'll need to revisit that at some point.
Even if the point of viability shifts due to technological advancement, the need for medical professionals to ethically weigh the viability and health of that particular fetus against the life and health of the mother (what is in all current medical guidelines concerning obstetric care) will not disappear.
Absolutely.  And regardless of what types of advancements are made, legal decisions about them should be made from a medically informed viewpoint, as unobscured by political ideology as possible.
You don't actually need to make abortion illegal in order to curb their use in situations where existing fetal viability is not in conflict with the life and health of the woman.  Guidelines for ethical medical practice do that just fine in all cases where patient interests need to be weighed and triaged. It is only in abortion that people think that they need courts and lawmakers to step in and tell doctors how to best care for their patients.
1.)  When life begins is an abstract and not-helpful question.  A 5-day blastocyst is not capable of even the most basic life unless it implants into the womb of a woman and has continuous access to her arterial blood supply for ~6 months. Even then, life is not guaranteed to it, but perhaps a 50% chance under ideal conditions. Human life (like all life) began nearly 4 billion years ago, and is built from things that are not independently alive (eggs and sperm, nutrients in the bloodstream) to something that is (a breathing baby).  A fertilized egg is at best blueprints for a baby.  No one would imagine that blueprints for a house has the same value as the house itself.  To imagine them the same requires an extreme commitment to abstraction.  The fact that development is continuous does not make it a challenge to differentiate stages.  In the same way that we don't struggle to tell the difference between a caterpillar and a butterfly, or a star and a black hole, a baby is a baby, and a fertilized egg is not. 2.)  Babies come from women (built from their blood and sinew).  Women labor to bring them into the world, they don't just "happen" while the woman is doing something else.  Women are not passive bystanders to their pregnancies and it is nonsensical to posit that they can be passive in relation to their own bodies while continuing to live in them and fulfill the myriad of responsibilities and priorities that we call living (much less with freedom).  Denying or discounting the agency of women in pregnancy and childbirth is offensive to all women. Denying women the choice of whether or not to do this doesn't simply force women who wouldn't choose to be pregnant to relinquish their bodily autonomy, it also steals from women who would choose to be pregnant one of the most profound gifts she has to give, by making it an obligation rather than a generosity.  This strikes me as obscene.  You wouldn't describe yourself as entitled to your own mother's womb, would you?  I don't.  The pro-life position creates this entitlement by removing the woman from consideration entirely (thereby making her a means to an end, rather than a person of value herself). 3.)  The practical consequences of attempting to remove from women autonomy over their bodies is far-reaching, and essentially criminalizes being a woman, being pregnant, and medically caring for pregnant women.  When pro-life laws are in place, women die preventable deaths, and doctors may be prohibited from providing them with basic medical care.  These laws are often based on abstract ideas about life, and bear little relation to the realities of either living in one's own body, attempting to care for one's own health, or triaging complex medical situations that arise during the medically intense and often harrowing experience that is pregnancy and childbirth. Doctors are best informed as to what medical procedures are safe, and how to best triage diverging patient issues, based on viability, life, and health.  Removing from them the tools to do their jobs is a disaster waiting to happen. Similarly, making women legally responsible for fetal outcomes, when such a high proportion of pregnancies naturally end in fetal demise opens the door to the criminalization of any woman who should happen to be pregnant.  I am not in favor of investigating women for fetal outcomes, even if they arise from the woman's decision-making, because it is impossible for a woman to both live in her body and be passive towards it.  Criminal sanctions in these cases are and would be based on moral panic about what women should/shouldn't be doing with their bodies, that is frankly, not anyone's business.
It is wrong to reproduce. Life is not precious. Personhood is a flawed concept.  Beings deserve rights tailored to their specific needs. Fetuses, babies and even small children don't need the same rights as humans who are old enough to experience existential terror. Pregnancy and childbirth are an intense and often excruciating process.  Making someone go through them is indirectly torturing them. Unwanted pregnancy and childbirth can ruin a person's life, and no baby even has the capacity to want to live.

I agree, I think that's where I'm starting to sway. I personally would never get an abortion under any circumstance, but there are many valid reasons, like the risk of the life of the mother
I'm pro-choice because that's the only logical position to take IMO. When one consents to sex, they consent to a possibility of getting pregnant. They DO NOT consent to continuing said pregnancy, nor do they consent to motherhood should they decide to carry to term. A woman has THREE options when she finds herself pregnant. Abortion, adoption or motherhood. That's how it should remain. Adoption resolves the issue of an unwanted CHILD, NOT a PREGNANCY. If one wants to reduce the need for abortion, then support free birth control, PROPER sex education and don't try to gut programs that help low-income families. Life began billions of years ago. It's an on-going process. A new life begins at conception, but a pregnancy begins at implantation. Hence why all pro-lifers should be FOR emergency contraception. EC prevents implantation. No implantation, no pregnancy, THUS no abortion.
Actually no, when a women is pregnant she has two choices. Abortion or carrying the pregnancy to term. AFTER the baby is born, then she has two different choices. Adoption or Motherhood.
If you want to split hairs, then yes :-P
Split hairs?
I'm pro choice because when I was twelve, I got raped and pregnant. I induced miscarriage by taking large doses of various pills I found around the house (aspirin, trazodone, and ibprophen, to list a few) because I was too scared to tell. As I got older I realized that although I should have asked for help and the route I decided to take was quite dangerous, I most likely wouldn't have been able to carry a child to term being so underdeveloped, and if I did there was a fair chance the child would've been born with birth defects, and my body might not have been able to go through labor. That baby would have a good chance of ending up in CPS custody (which I had been through), where I lived there was a very high rate of orphaned children waiting to be adopted or who'd gotten too old and been sent to group homes. And although a miscarriage at such a young age with nobody to confide in was painful, I believe going through a pregnancy would've scarred me much worse. Not everyone is in a situation where they can support a child, and not everyone wants children, so why should a child be predisposed to hardship? Furthermore, a fetus could technically be considered alive after roughly 23 days, when the chemical DMT is produced, and the fetus is technically conscious. But just because something has a sense of awareness does not mean it has thoughts, emotions, senses, or other characteristics that would define 'life', although it is alive similarly to how plants and single cell organisms are. I believe, personally, when an unborn fetus can be considered truly living is when it has developed the ability to hear (as babies can further into the pregnancy), to feel emotion on some level, and/or have developed the ability alone to feel pain. Then, as pro-life activists would say, abortion could be considered murder. But that's just my thoughts.
I do not understand why someone who claims to have done a lot of research on the topic is unfamiliar with one of the most valid research sites available (Pew Charitable Trust). Given your writing and language choices, you are most likely American and speak English as your first language. You've described yourself as depressed, in pain, suicidal, etc. in your post history. I think you are simply bored and chose to stir the pot.  Before you accuse me of being "rude" (how completely immature a comment that was!) I am simply using your own recorded history to make a very educated  guess.
Oh, it's all good! I do admit I am depressed, I am practically home bound because I fractured my spine. I'm not trying to stir the pot, it's just I think it's important to hear valid, strong arguments from both sides of an opinion. I do admit I am a little bored, and that I why I turned to reddit to learn some new opinions on a topic which is extremely important to me. I'm trying to me open to learn more about the pro choice side.
Yes, I read all about your spine. Me personally: Very pro-choice. I cannot have children, but it is not my business to force other people to have them. I do know from personal experience that adoption is NOT always an option -- people who want to adopt tend to want healthy newborn infants of the same race, and tend not to adopt slightly older children or children with special needs, health problems, and abnormalities. And of course, not every child is born perfect, the same race as the prospective adopters, or in the health conditions that the adopters want. I have fostered 27 such children. 27 kids that no one would adopt, no one wanted, and that were stuck in the foster care system. I think there is a pervasive thought among pro-lifers that all children born have the potential to be adopted. We think of cute innocent babies. We don't think of the drug addicted baby that I held as he seized to death in the hospital. We don't think, "Why, yes, I would LOVE to adopt a kid that has spina bifida, who cannot urinate for himself, who I will have to learn to put a catheter in, whose drool I will need to clean up from multiple surfaces in a day. And we definitely don't welcome an HIV baby, because that is a great deal of risk. *edit: "We" don't -- I had each of these children in my care. It's not that these kids don't "deserve" life, but no one "deserves" to suffer in their life, either. *edit: formatting
First off, I would like to thank you. Being a foster parent can be taxing, and what you do is amazing! What you said really speaks to me, some children are born really ill and can be in pain all the time, sometimes I think it may be best if they did not suffer. Finally, I forgot people can read stuff I post! Kinda freaky, but yeah I broke my back :( thank you for your eye opening words
I think life began billions of years ago, or with Adam and Eve or whatever. No new life is created with a pregnancy, life is dividing apart rather than being made anew. I personally don't think ethics needs to be lead by metaphysics. It's about human relations rather than abstract notions like what is life vs what isn't. Pro-choice allows people to freely make ethical choices without danger and punishment. It makes that moral choice one between a woman, her doctor and her spiritual tradition, rather than between a woman, her doctor and her congressman.
What do you mean by no new life is created with a pregnancy?
All of the cells that form the zygote are living. As fas as I know, life came from nothing once, and all subsequent life has been an expansion and division of that first life. Babies aren't formed ex nihilo, you know?
I feel like life is a vague and nebulous concept which is altogether unimportant when calculating one's rights. To me, the fetus could be a fully-functional genius with the cure to cancer in their fetushand, ready to be birthed, but the fact that the fetus cannot survive outside of the mother gives the mother the right to evict the fetus. If someone wants to make the argument that a mother should be responsible for the fetus because her sex made it possible for the fetus to gestate inside her, I just reject that.  You're not entitled to a healthy and full gestation; if you get that it's a gift from the mother.  Not an obligation.

Ok, I agree with a lot you said! My friend was born with similar circumstances, her left elbow is locked, but I think what you said is inspirational and smart. Sex is a responsibility, and people should be educated on what could occur, including pregnancy and STIs. Thank you for replying :)

Ok, I hope you are not trying to be rude. I'm genuinely asking why you are pro choice. I'm not trying to offend anybody, and I'm sorry if I offended you. I'm trying to understand the other side of the argument. A lot of people get offended because I'm a 17 year old female and prolife, I want to know why you are pro choice.
She's been quite respectful on here tbh. Lots of people are helping educate her. I'm pro choice btw don't need any misconceptions about that. If she was trolling then she wouldn't be so polite and respectful of others opinions. Thank you for trying to understand our side of things 1650fly and hopefully you've learned something here :)
Thank you! It definitely opened up my perspective more on the pro choice side.

I've done a lot of research of both sides for multiple speeches and debates, I was just curious of other reasons other than my body my right. But thanks for the pew research center link, I haven't heard of them :)
Sure

Just a note as the article explains, In America priest have had the faculty to forgive the sin of procuring an abortion since somewhere in 1980s. Also it is rare and arguable that any woman has actually met the requirements for excommunication. Surprised to see this on this sub. Pretty cool though.
So I used to be pro-life. EXTREMELY pro-life. It was an obsession of mine, truthfully. This was from 18 up until I was about 21-22.  So I eventually became pro-choice. This is my current belief. So I have a question for those who have, like me, once been pro-life and are now pro-choice. Do you ever feel guilty for putting time or effort into trying to fight against abortion? Do you ever feel bad about it? If so, what makes you feel better? Would just like to get you guys' thoughts.
I used to be pro-life because that's how I was raised. I was never an obsessed pro-lifer, but I couldn't comprehend how anyone could "have their child killed." At the time, I thought it was morally wrong and was a cop-out to responsibility. Upon turning 17, I started critically thinking about the subject and totally changed my mind. Pro-choice just seemed like the most logical view. Regarding feeling bad about my past perspective, I try not to dwell on it, because even though I was technically a part of the problem, I am not anymore. You can't change the past, but you can change the future. I just focus on being a part of the solution and offering insight/support if the subject ever comes up.
You just narrated my (reproductive rights-related) life history. To OP: I recommend the same. Don't dwell on a past that you can't change. You've taken steps in the right direction, and for that you should be proud.
Well, it's nice to know someone else has had a similar experience!
I can't really relate to your particular situation, but maybe you could try volunteering at a clinic as a patient escort? https://www.plannedparenthood.org/about-us/jobs-volunteering
Or any number of other things! Escorting isn't the only volunteer opportunity, and it's not for everyone. PP takes volunteer help for community outreach, phone banking, and a lot of other stuff too.
What was it that made you so vehemently pro-life?  What were the things that you now see that were obscured to you before? None of us controls what we did in the past, we can only choose our future choices.  If you have grown and learned, it is something to be proud of. If you feel called, do your best from now on to make life easier for women to get the healthcare they need.  You might be someone who knows how to speak to pro-lifers who are more on the fence and amenable to conversation.
Send them over to the prolife sub. Would make for good conversation :)
Can I ask what changed your mind?
I was in an abusive marriage and was finally going through with the much needed divorce. I was thinking about many things, one of which being so thankful that I had never become pregnant with his child, as this would have bound me to him forever. I began to think what would happen if I was pregnant before our divorce, and ultimately decided abortion would have been my only way out. This really got me thinking about abortion, and I "saw the light" so to speak. From my own experience, I saw why others need abortion.
Thanks for sharing, I am sorry you had to go through that crap., it was his with the problem not yours. Thanks for your empathy and sharing your story, please take care x
Even at my most Catholic I was still pro-choice, but for some fucked up reasons. I think the best you can do as others have suggested is volunteer and avoid shopping at places that prohibit even letting women have access to birth control (cough Hobby Lobby cough). Also, don't trip chocolate trip! If we legit held ourselves accountable for a every stupid thought we have had as teens and young adults we would feel guilty about too many things. You've matured and evolved on an issue just continue living your life and educate those in your life. My brother was hard core Catholic/Conservative, the few times I talked to him about this issue he was bothered and felt I was wrong...over the years between me and I'm assuming more liberal minded friends he's changed his stance and feelings on this and other things. Hope this helps.
I used to be a praying-out-of-clinics pro-lifer. Then my whole worldview got flipped upside down at the age of 23 and I decided to reconsider my position. I'm now pro-choice. I do feel bad, sometimes, but I feel bad about a lot of the things I used to do as a very religious person. I definitely tried to influence people toward my views (everyone does this to some extent, but I regret now this feeling of having influenced them in the "wrong" way) and I donated toward anti-abortion causes. I even believed contraception was immoral. Today, I'm in healthcare, and my passion is women's health. I firmly believe that providing family planning options to women is the key to reducing poverty. I'm a volunteer with Planned Parenthood, although my schedule doesn't allow me to do much there. Here's how I think about it, putting a positive spin on things. I could have been one of many people who remain pro-life all their lives, contributing money and time and energy toward that cause. But I've stopped that timeline and entered a new one, so to speak, so now I've taken away the potential for nearly 80 years of anti-abortion and added nearly 80 years of pro-choice action. So maybe just think of all the anti-abortion activism you're not doing. And if now, as a "pro-choicer," you don't feel compelled to make choice your great cause, don't feel bad about it. There are a million banners to carry, a million truly worthy causes, and none of us can fight every cause. So you can just go about your life now, standing for choice when the opportunity arises. You don't owe anybody any penance or anything.
I used to be Catholic and I now consider myself a victim of brainwashing.  However, I became prochoice at about 16 when my biology class studied the human gestation process.  Dogmatic principles against killing humans didn't hold well when I saw that the process of any creature becoming a sentient being was slow and gradual.  On top of that, seeing that several different animals developed similarly in the womb or egg made me lose my sense of specialness for human life.
The process of growing up is slow and gradual. Babies can't survive on their own for a long time, should I fanyicide be legal?
I think you were trying to say 'infanticide.'  Yes, infanticide is fine.  As long as we consider it okay to kill animals of similar or even higher intelligence, it would be logically consistent to be okay with killing babies.
Actually, I had the opposite experience. I was prochoice before and then I started to think about the logic and prolife was the only rationale answer. I must admit having a husband who is a statistician helped me to sort through the lies perpetrated by the abortion lobby. It's interesting how people have such different experiences. Why does this get downvoted? I am just talking of my own personal experience. Besides it makes it difficult to respond. Unfortunate.
The fuck is an "abortion lobby"? You mean women who want to be able to be in control of their own health and bodies?
No. I mean organizations that spend time and resources to ensure that abortion remain legal and unrestricted. NARAL is a good example. I'm not sure why my comment is igniting anger/irritation or am I misinterpreting? Let me know. Perhaps I could have used a different word?
Maybe because you're on /r/prochoice telling us that our views are "irrational" and that the "abortion industry" "perpetuates lies"? Gosh, I don't know, could that be it?
Do you mind me asking what those lies are? And also why you think the "abortion lobby" is a thing?
Sure. Actually I should make clear that I think pretty much all industries perpetrate deception with the help of statistics so I am not trying to single out the abortion lobby per say. Two of the biggest lobbyist for abortion are NARAL and Planned Parenthood. No matter how one sees it I think we can agree that there is money to be made and this industry is no different. Maybe I am just a cynic but I think $$$ are a driving force behind most legislative measures or lack thereof. Some of the main deception points are, woman will die in droves under prolife legislation, abortion restrictions do not work toward reducing abortions and pregnancy and childbirth are extremely dangerous.
Both those organization are non profit and offer donation based services for low income and uninsured. I don't think they're concerned about money more so about health and women's rights. And if you look at the statistics of women's deaths due to illegal abortions before roe vs wade, it unfortunately isn't really a deception point
Non profits still make people rich. A not-for-profit organisation pays it's staff. They don't work for free. The profits generated don't go to shareholders, that's what the 'not-for-profit' bits about. Take Cecile Richards for example, she makes over $500,000 a year. Sorry about the crazy link but I know people are picky about sources so, https://www.google.ca/search?sourceid=chrome-psyapi2&ion=1&espv=2&ie=UTF-8&q=cecile%20richards%20salary&oq=cecile%20richards&rlz=1CAASUE_enCA672CA675&aqs=chrome.1.69i57j0l5.5592j0j7 Two points about pre Roe. deaths. First the numbers were said to be fabricated and estimated. Second, antibiotics became available which reduced the death toll. Third, I am Canadian and I compared the numbers when I read about the fabrication and they just didn't add up. The last thing is that most of the world restricts abortion right now. So we can compare. And when we look at first world countries with abortion restrictions we don't see high maternal mortality rates. In fact we see the opposite. They seem to reap the benefit of better maternal health overall. http://liveactionnews.org/think-abortion-restrictions-increase-maternal-mortality-think-again/ http://news.nationalpost.com/full-comment/andrea-mrozek-if-abortion-saves-lives-whats-happening-in-chile I can compile a list of my sources but it would be a long and tedious task. I am willing to do it if your interested. However, I am super busy with work right now and it would take me quite some time. Thanks for the question/comment.
Both your resources are from conversative sites known for having fake news, so I'm sorry but I don't trust your sources. The second article also appears to be an opinion piece, without any references. And I don't think women dying from self inducing abortion or committing suicide would be classified under maternal mortality rates. Also the US doesn't have the same healthcare that Canada has, so I'm sure you have much better options when it comes to raising a family. In fact if I lived in country that was economically feasible, I wouldn't be so objective in my opinion. But I've seen children starve due to poverty and to me that isn't pro-life.
Hmmm, I agree they are more on the conservative side but at least for this particular article you can follow the links to all the studies. http://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SH.STA.MMRT http://www.melisainstitute.org/uploads/1/2/3/9/12398427/koch_2015_ilm_article.pd http://bmjopen.bmj.com/content/5/2/e006013.full Here is the reference to the study. You are right I couldn't find it in the article itself. http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0036613 I’m not sure why not? I will try to look into this though. It seems a valid possibility. Sure that could be a giant factor but the difference was so extreme like 1:1000. I'm not convinced health care alone could account for this large discrepancy. Especially since we don't see this happen now. Yes. I agree. The USA really needs universal health care. I think at least we can both agree here :).
Up to 15% of pregnancies include life-threatening complications.  It is only with aggressive prenatal care and modern medical interventions (e.g. blood transfusions in the case of hemorrhaging) that the maternal death rate is as low as it is. Still, maternal death in the U.S. is higher than other developed countries, and 5 times higher than our national goal (which is based on other developed countries).  10 times higher for African American women. To put the risks in context, being pregnant in the U.S. is 15 times more likely to result in death than skydiving.  If being pregnant was an occupation, it would rank around police officers according to death rate (which is to say almost twice as dangerous as being a firefighter).  For an African American woman it would be twice that or about as dangerous as being a roofer (among the top 10 most dangerous jobs in the country). What evidence have you that pregnancy is not that dangerous?    It takes some nerve to belittle the contributions and risks that pregnant women choose to take on.  Particularly if you are simply not paying attention/don't care to know that much about pregnancy. http://www.modernhealthcare.com/article/20150506/news/150509941 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2409165/ https://aeon.co/essays/why-pregnancy-is-a-biological-war-between-mother-and-baby http://www.besthealthdegrees.com/health-risks/ http://www.bloomberg.com/graphics/2015-dangerous-jobs/
I'm confused. Where did I mention anything about whether pregnancy is or is not dangerous?

I did say that. Ok. But to be fair I meant pregnancy (in general) is not extremely dangerous. And yes with modern medicine and in a developed nation the risk benefits can be weighed throughout the course. I've posted this on here in the past, "You literally have about a 1 in 5,000 chance of dying in childbirth in a DEVELOPED country. That is 0.02% (and this includes woman who are NOT exhibiting normal healthy pregnancies). https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maternal_death Anyone who know statistics know that this is a very, very, very, extremely small percent." I do think that US would benefit greatly from universal health care. Perhaps this is a step that both prochoicers and prolifers could agree on. I will need some time to review your links. But to put the skydiving example into perspective. There is only a 0.003 of dying while skydiving. Mathematically this is so minuscule it's not even worth mentioning. Being 15 times more likely is hardly risky at all. That translates into a 0.045 % chance. Anyway, as I said I will review your links. Perhaps things are changing. It's always good to review recent stats. Thanks. https://www.bostonglobe.com/2014/09/30/how-common-are-skydiving-accident-deaths-not-very/Rr7NltopKnJMPWy92c3SiO/story.html
What other risk of death are people legally obligated to accept? If you are going to pass laws that limit people's choice, and make them legally obligated to undergo risk to their lives, it is not sufficient to look at the healthiest of individuals and say, "See, it's fine for most people!" You need to demonstrate that it wouldn't put an undue risk onto anyone who would fall under the jurisdiction of the law which includes plenty of people with pre-existing conditions that would contraindicate pregnancy and/or increase risk. (of course, for myself, even that would be insufficient, because I believe that women simply have a right to their bodies that cannot and should not be legislated away) A completely healthy 25-year old woman with an uncomplicated pregnancy will see a doctor a dozen and a half times, have half a dozen blood tests, and several ultrasounds, all before being hospitalized during the birth process.  This is how we reduce the risk of maternal death.  If someone was unable to attend that high rate of medical intervention (due to potential loss of job/destitution), then their risk of death would be much much higher.   Higher still for people with high-risk pregnancies, or contraindicating medical conditions.
I think the same risk that a parent or person under duty or care is normally obliged to accept considering all the factors. I also think paid pregnancy leave would work wonders to ensure no one misses their appointments. That way if a normal pregnancy turns into a high risk one a mother can look at all her options. Here is a past response I sent to trustedadult where she asks, I think that there has to be a serious and imminent possibility of extreme harm or death. I know that is pretty vague however, I don't think I am qualified to throw numbers around. I think that doctors and legislators ought to sit down to do this. Perhaps have a panel of doctors readily available to decide on each individual case (if time permits and I think generally it does). But in general, I would say financial burdens, emotional burdens, are not health related in the sense of allowing for violent self defense. For example, my ex boyfriend who broke up with me might live next door and his presence is making me depressed and suicidal but I still can not kill him. Heck, this would even apply to a rapist (as horrible as that is). His victims can not kill him even though his living may cause all kinds of trauma. Another example, a born child may be causing huge financial burdens, making it next to impossible for me to finish school but I still can not kill him to alleviate this symptom. I can choose to make an adoption plan but must still provide for him while the process is underway. Insofar as health I tend to use the example of getting stuck next to someone with the flu. My chances of getting it are pretty decent. And chances of health complications and even death are possible but, not enough to warrant killing. However, if a kid is coming at me with a knife in a fit of rage and I do everything to defend myself without using unnecessary force but, in the end the only way to stop him results in his death then I'd say that is morally and legally justifiable. So, to put it into context (from my limited knowledge on child birth), things like an ectopic pregnancy are clear as day. Things like preeclampsia or severe hypertension when medicine is failing also pretty clear. Debilitating nausea that poses no health threat and will most likely go away after some time is not a candidate but, every effort to provide other treatments must be made. As I mentioned before, I don't believe that there being a difficult grey area to navigate warrants us giving into abortion on demand and without apology. And the fact that other countries have worked out prolife legislation that works I'd say we have a great chance of finding a pretty good compromise."
If a doctor is going to face legal sanction, then they need clear boundaries.  Doctors being judged by their peers according to their triaging of various medical factors is something that happens in the medical licensure/review process, not something that lends itself well to courts/laws. If merely being pregnant meant that a person was at high risk for losing her job, housing, and custody of her born children, you would just say - too bad?  What if that meant that a person who she believed would abuse the children would then gain custody (nothing she has been able to prove in court, but something that she fervently believes). Can you see why someone would rather throw themselves down the stairs than suffer such a high cost?  I certainly can. Would a schizoaffective patient be required to stop taking psychiatric medications that allow her to live a functioning life, or would she be required to allow the onset of florid delusions up to and including suicidal and homicidal command hallucinations that then result in her spending the remaining months in a psychiatric institution? And hyperemesis gravidarum is when you are so nauseated that you require hospitalization.  It's not a comfort issue.  If you are unable, even with medical intervention, to sustain your own health outside of the hospital are you legally required to spend the pregnancy in the hospital hooked up to IV fluids? I am attempting to demonstrate that you, the pro-life community, the legislature, and the courts are woefully ill-equipped to troubleshoot every situation or set of costs that a pregnant woman might encounter.  You don't have to feel comfortable with the idea of abortion to recognize the limits of your capacity to judge and control others. When you talk to the community of doctors who treat these patients, they are not on the fence.  ACOG is adamantly in favor of abortion access and providing women with the medical choices they need to stay healthy.

So because there are people making money off of it (which is true for everything for crafty people), abortion is bad? That logic makes all pharmaceuticals bad, all health service provisions bad in fact. There is money to be made off of in agriculture, science, technology, all of the social sciences... There are also people trying to, and heavily succeeding at making money off of those who have babies, and who would have a lot to lose if the birthrate went down. You could say there was, and is, a capitalist lobby that made and maintains child-rearing as a very lucrative business; back in the 1800s and before, children often died for various causes early on, it was the norm. It's only in the previous century that children have become such precious things who need to be provided for only with the best. There is nothing to support the idea that this change is for the best, either, unless you already subscribe to the idea that "all life is precious"--at which point it becomes circular logic. All life was not precious back then, and it is not now either, although philosophy has shed a lot of light on why since then. I think you need to take another look at your "lobby" angle, and History. There will always be groups who want things a certain way for money. I could say your being pro-lifer is a manifestation of this as well. Given that, using "lobbies" as your single argument to back up being pro-life is ineffective at best, deceptive at the worst. Your disclaimer in your first paragraph changes nothing of that since you still thought it a useful thing to include. Why are you pro-life, truly? The points you described last are red herrings; they are not typically why people choose to have abortions, and why people fight for the right to have them. Number one being not wanting to end up with a child, while still enjoying sex, despite the (unfortunate) absence of birth control / BC failures.
What? I never said I am prolife because of abortion lobby deception. That was just an additional note. Nor did I say abortion is bad because there are people making money of of it. Because I believe that all innocent and living human organisms/beings are equal and ought to be afforded the same rights.
Unless it's relevant to your decision to be prolife... why even mention the abortion lobby? Something's not right there. Additionally, personal beliefs are not by definition rational. So what makes your stance more rational than another's?
Because at the time (when I was prochoice) all those factors mattered. Looking into them further and discovering some real sketchy stuff pushed me toward examining my belief further. But they are not the basis for my belief. I think that we all start with a premise and continue on to apply logical conclusions. I feel that prolifers all start with the same premise and the logical conclusions all fit nice and neatly. Prochoicers start with many premises and most do not hold logically consistent conclusions. In my experience anyway.
Considering your premises here do not seem logical, I say the same applies to you.
Where have I stated a premise?


Regardless, we want abortion rights. So who is making money off of it is irrelevant. I have no problem paying for something I believe in and/or need.
Fair enough. And as I mentioned above this is not my reason for being prolife. But rather the deception got me thinking. And the thinking led to my prolife stance.
Kind of a bizarre reason to start squashing the need of others...just because they don't mind paying someone to do it. I mean to be honest, someone developed the technologies and procedures, and now administers them. They deserve to be paid for it and we're willing. They probably wouldn't be able to extort us either if more people accepted others have the right and want the right and the technology and will pay for it. No one's being decieved. If I want an abortion, I want it and I want it done right. I don't want to carry a baby to term and put it up for adoption. I want the right to utilize those nine months of my life and my body as I see fit. And as I said on another post, no one has the right to anyone else's body and time, no matter how vulnerable they are  or how they got to be that vulnerable or how life saving the other person's body and time may be to that person.
What? What reason are you talking about? I never mentioned a reason. Conjoined twins and parental responsibility both prove otherwise. Plus no one is allowed to kill another person just because they are dependent.
No, I'm replying to the guy who was complaining that abortion is a paid practice. Though I disagree with you too.
You sound like you were pro-life to begin with.  You have a mad obsession with existence as opposed to quality of life or freedom.
You can't have quality or freedom without existence. But curious, how can a person sound like they were prolife to begin with? How does that even work?
You said that you became pro life after learning about how people profit off abortion.  That doesn't make any sense and it makes me suspect that you're lying. So what if you can't have quality or freedom without existence?  Only the existent need those things.  There are plenty of situations in which it would be better to be dead, namely in the absence of freedom or when ones quality of life is low.  Life is not intrinsically good if it has to be made good by other things. Furthermore, why would you believe that humans at all stages of life deserve the same rights?  I'm sure you don't believe that kids should be allowed to vote or drive.  I hope you believe that animals deserve rights.
What? No I didn't. Where did I say that? That's your opinion. And you can make that decision for yourself. It's when you tru to force it on another human being via killing that I have a problem with it. I don't see the relevance here? I didn't say that. I said I believe all human beings ought to have the same basic inalienable rights. Not ever right is inalienable. Driving is not an inalienable right.

This is the best tl;dr I could make, original reduced by 85%. (I'm a bot) Extended Summary | FAQ | Theory | Feedback | Top keywords: abortion#1 women#2 law#3 information#4 week#5
Why can't the US do this?
Religion
I saw it in the news the other day and I was very disappointed. It makes me scared for what America will look like in the future, and if I need to leave while I can. Seeing these Pro-Life Generation Posters Really scares me
I'm British rather than American, but I don't know any pro life millennials. It's seen as extremely obvious among my peers that abortion should be legal.
That's also my experience as a Londoner , but I think we do take take a women's right not to be forced to gestate a pregnancy for granted . In Northern and Southern Ireland women are rarely allowed to end a pregnancy .
In my opinion, the lack of clarity on a pro-life vs. pro-choice position with the younger generation has more to do with their own uncertainty of what they would choose to do if they themselves faced an unwanted or medically risky pregnancy. If the question were specifically worded to ask "Do you believe that your personal view on abortion should be imposed upon everyone?" their answers overall would lean more to a pro-choice stance.
At 30 I am an older Millennial, but my position has always been personally pro-life and politically pro-choice. As a male, in the end, it isn't my choice to make but abortion should always be the last option and not regulated by the state, beyond reasonable health and safety regulations, not those b.s. rules trying to red tape it out of existence. Firstly, Women who want to be sexually active NEED to be on some contraceptive, men don't have a non-surgical option yet and as people love to shout, it's your body, so take care of it. Also, since birth control pills can help regulate and lessen the severity of menstruation I recommend it even I'd you don't plan on being sexually active. Secondly, use prophylactics like condoms and dams. These are as much or more about disease prevention as pregnancy protection and should be used every time until both are monogamous and have passed STD tests since becoming monogamous (No, your test two years ago doesn't count). I personally don't care if you or your partner have casual sex with others but unless they and any of their partners have recently been tested clean your risk goes way up. Thirdly, if the first two fail or were skipped there is the Morning After Pill in its various types (costing $35-60+). Different versions can be taken up to 5 days after sex and purchased over the counter. If after 5 days you can get RU-486 or similar medically induced abortions up to 10 weeks after the last period (Costs range from $300-900+). Fourth, Okay you have missed a lot of easier and cheaper options and now tough decisions need to be made. Pregnancy can be a crazy journey but if you haven't already used any of the previous options I entreat you to go through with the pregnancy, there are plenty of infertile or homosexual couples that would love to adopt. Fifth, It took a while to get here but you've decided to get an abortion after 10 weeks. Doctors will not offer medicines to end the pregnancy and it is very dangerous to diy this, so don't! Surgical abortion is the answer, various states have different regulations which you will have to research to find out what requirements they have and where it can be performed. A medical abortion takes 5-10 minutes ussually but you will likely spend 5+ hours at the clinic in total. A surgical abortion can cost $300 - 2,000 depending on where you are and how long you have been pregnant. Going back to opinions, as far as the usual exceptions people will reference. Rape victims would hopefully have taken Step One but if not then start at Step Three and proceed. Incest, I presume most incest includes some level of rape ie. force or coercion, if it's consensual then I don't care. If it threatens the life of the mother then terminate and try again later if possible, I doubt your child will appreciate your unnecessary death and remember adopting is always an option. Disabled people are quite able to have meaningful lives and if you feel you can't handle the burden please strongly consider adoption over abortion. TLDR: Be on the pill and use a condom so you don't need to make any difficult decisions.
I really really like this response. I have a HUGE problem with people who advocate pro-life but are against protection and contraception. Females are sexual beings, males are sexual beings, humans in general are sexual beings. Its going to happen. Sex should be made something that is safe and enjoyable where both females and males should be protected and have options. A friend of mine got pregnant after her contraception failed (pill). One of her medicines interfered and made it less effective. She chose to keep that baby, and she doesn't like abortions, its not for her so she has the choice to not do that. I think that is the beauty of pr-choice.
There is also an egregious lack of focus on male responsibility from the same people that think contraceptives are EVIL!
Great comment !
The pill and condoms aren't 100% effective. Don't tel someone what to do with their body.
So because something isn't perfect avoid them and don't have an opinion, OK sure, fuck you.
I'm not saying that at all. I'm saying you can't tell people to use contraceptives and expect no pregnancies (and abortions) to happen.
It's all about following the steps. The least chance of getting pregnant with no one having surgery is for women to be on birth control and men wear condoms. That is two things with 90+% success rate each. So even if a condom rips or medication affects the efficacy of the birth control, both would have to happen for a significant chance of pregnancy. Yes, trillion-to-one chances do occur but that's where my other steps come in, starting with Plan B onward. If you want honey from a beehive and you're allergic to bee stings you go in wearing a beekeepers suit first, not go in naked and later use an epi-pen.
Or we can let women get abortions when they see fit.
Please show me where I said they can't. If you want to fuck everyone you meet unprotected and wait 7+ months and abort it then fine but reasonable people should make use of reasonable (and cheaper) options. Plus you wanted to talk about condoms and birth control not being perfect let us not forget that abortion can have complications up to becoming unable to get pregnant again and even death. So you keep hoping for free government funded abortions or whatever and I'll just hope that better education and effective, proven methods leading to less needs for abortion win out over your attitude.
The question should be "do you want abortion made illegal in most circumstances ". That's the crux of the issue  . People can identity as prolife/prochoice and not believe in ending their own pregnancies, but allowing other women to make that decision . Looking at last years Gallop polls the majority want abortion legal in some or all situations.http://www.gallup.com/poll/1576/abortion.aspx
It can also be said that the majority want abortion restriction. In fact 56% said they would want abortion legal only in a few circumstances or not at all. It's seems to be a pretty even split though with 46% considering themselves prolife and 47% considering themselves prochoice. Yet, 47% consider it morally wrong.
Its fascinating to see how opinions are so equally split, as a European living in a prochoice country I am interested to see future developments. Whats your prophecy for the next four years for the US with a prolife president? Do you think PP will be defunded ,or Roe V Wade overturned?
To be honest I don't predict much of a change at all. Do you? I'm not sure he is actually prolife.
I think your probably right
This is a good discussion. I am intrigued with the idea of the rhetoric around pro-choice. Perhaps we should say pro-medicine, seeing as the pro-choice view is essentially backed by obstetrical medical organizations.
I say "pro life" is actually anti choice.
It's because young people are more accepting of science and science dictates that abortion is killing a human being.
Since when? Sources please
You mean to say you don't think abortion is killing a human being? I didn't even think this was disputed anymore.
No, its really not.
Even on this subreddit pro-choicers accept that the human foetus is a human life. Where do you think life begins, when it exits the womb? (I hope not because that is so very wrong)
Most scientists don't know when life happens in the womb, but its sure not at conception
You are joking right? Most scientists would say that it starts at conception. It's the point where the sperm and egg meet and fuse to make a human zygote. There is no arguing this, it's science cut and dry, no philosophy, just science.
Zygote needs to stick to the uterine wall to begin  developing if not it is a chemical pregnancy and you miscarry. Its happened to me once.
So? Scientifically speaking it doesn't mean it's not life.
Listen Im never ever going to agree with you and I have much better things to do than argue on the internet. Ill just agree to disagree.

I am 100% gung ho pro choice. A lot of my friends are too. I guess it depends on the area.

This is the best tl;dr I could make, original reduced by 84%. (I'm a bot) Extended Summary | FAQ | Theory | Feedback | Top keywords: right#1 Ireland#2 Human#3 abortion#4 women#5

"Yeah, so what if I wanted to peacefully bomb the clinic?"
Idiot
I can't find any definitive up to date information here. I've been googling and all but I'm very ill. How late can you have an abortion in Iowa? My friend's potential baby mama seems to be lying.
This was from the Planned Parenthood site.  It says up to 9 weeks for the abortion pill, and 21 weeks, 6 days for an in-clinic procedure.
Per Guttmacher, Iowa bans abortion after the third trimester (as measured by the last menstrual period).  Of course, that doesn't necessarily translate to accessibility; I'm not sure how many clinics there are in Iowa that handle second-trimester procedures (the Emma Goldman clinic, for examples, will provide abortions up to 19 weeks and 6 days from the last menstrual period). And while the context here isn't completely clear, it sounds a lot like someone wants potential baby mama to have an abortion she doesn't want to have, and she's lying in order to keep from being pressured.  I hope we all realize that this information is not meant to be used as cudgel to make someone terminate a pregnancy; someone who's lying about being beyond the limit on abortion doesn't sound like a liar to me, but rather someone who really doesn't want to have an abortion or to continue to discuss the option, in the face of pressure to do so.

But those fetal remains are medical waste. They aren't people. No one cremates a tumour they've had removed. The cost of these actions will be on hospitals and clinics. Which, in the states, probably means a higher bill for an abortion and further restricted access. Woman gets pregnant and cannot afford an abortion or to care for a child. What is she likely to do? Something unsafe. It's not right.
Hmm, but no requirement for miscarriages. Almost like there's a lack of consistency in the law, and it's just being used to strong arm women out of their rights.
The law does cover miscarriages- that happen at hospitals or clinics, that is.  By the same token, while inducing your own abortion at home would be illegal, technically it would similarly not be subjected to this law.  It's not the abortion vs. miscarriage distinction that makes the difference- it's "happened at an institution subject to waste regulation" vs. "happened at a place where we have no regulatory jurisdiction". A woman with a wanted pregnancy who shows up at the ER because she's actively miscarrying and is trying to stop it but loses the pregnancy while there will be subject to the law.  Essentially, if a hospital or clinic has fetal tissue, however they got it, it now must be handled according to these new parameters.
Texas rich people now scramble to open new funeral homes. Anybody want to bet me? Yeah, I wouldn't either.
Eh, not so much.  While so much of the reporting uses language like "funerals for fetuses!" or even "burial or cremation", the actual law doesn't feature anything like that.  The law doesn't require a cemetery or a service or a funeral home or any action on the part of the woman from which the fetal remains came.  It just limits the number of methods of fetal tissue disposal that are already being used by waste companies hired by hospitals and clinics.
This was a joke. (mostly) I read the law. Just pointing out we as citizens need to watch out for  politicians that use laws for personal ($$) gain. We already know that it's happened before. Gov. Scott owned drug testing facilities, then forced people applying for help to be drug tested before being helped, at the cost of the person applying.  Google it; I think the company was Selentic.
Ah, sorry- the humor went over my head!
No problem. My humor is weird. :)
For those that don't know, abortion funds are organizations that provide money to help pay for abortions or other abortion-related expenses (travel, lodging, etc.) for women in need. I learned about them recently, and they sound like a great way to help people directly, especially in states with harsher abortion laws where monetary barriers are more likely to exist.I am considering donating to one, but as I live in a very liberal state where access to abortion may be a lot easier, I'm wondering - in which states do women need this kind of help the most? Or should I just donate locally?
Gateway women's access find here in Missouri does good work. I donate to them whenever I can! www.gwaf.org
Texas could always use some help. The Lilith Fund is supposed to be a great resource to women who need it.
http://jacksonwomenshealth.com pretty sure this is the only abortion provider in all of mississippi a few weeks back i wrote out a small check to dr. warren m. hern who specializes in late term abortions. his colleague dr. tiller was murdered in 2009. http://jezebel.com/interview-with-a-woman-who-recently-had-an-abortion-at-1781972395


Doc for my fellow  prochoice Brits to download on BBC 3 iplayer . Prochoice Stacey spends time with the prolife 'survivors ' group in the US
Saw this tonight. "Let's vandalize Planned Parenthood and run away from what we've done - that'll sure show them!" As someone who has gone through abortion, I bawled the entire time. Not because of the show itself, but for the lack of compassion these people display.
Sorry it upset you, I hope your feeling better now
With so many relevant documentary makers going un-aired on TV, it begs the question why someone this incompetent and unprofessional is given masses of airtime on mainstream terrestrial television. With the obvious amateurishness surrounding Dooley’s shows, it is a wonder why even the slightest amount of the TV Licence fee is spent on her meaningless jaunts, especially when the end result is something that resembles a home-made YouTube documentary.
What are some Christian organizations (of any denomination) that are pro-choice? Or at least use the Bible in a way that is not radically anti-abortion or radically pro-life? I'm on the fence and would like to research both sides of the argument in respect to what the Bible has to say about the issue
Here is a great article written by a woman raised evangelical which (I think) does a really good job at breaking down the pro-life arguments and their inconsistencies And Catholics for Choice seems to be a good resource. Good luck! (And fyi, pro-choice is just what it sounds like--so even if you personally may be against abortion for moral/religious reasons, you can still be for other people being able to make that decision for themselves according to their own beliefs)
This site may have some useful information for you: http://rcrc.org/ From the site: "The Religious Coalition for Reproductive Choice (RCRC) is the only national interfaith organization dedicated to reproductive choices, health, rights and justice. For more than 40 years, we have been educating, organizing and advocating wherever faith, policy and our reproductive lives intersect. RCRC’s work stems from religious convictions common to our diverse religious traditions — compassion and love for others and the dignity of all people regardless of color or sex. These convictions distinguish our coalition from secular organizations we ally with to support reproductive choices, health, rights and justice."
This article may interest you, as well. http://www.beliefnet.com/news/2003/01/the-biblical-basis-forbeing-pro-choice.aspx
This should be helpful to you http://www.patheos.com/blogs/godlessindixie/2016/10/23/what-does-the-bible-say-about-abortion/

It is illegal to kill babies. Luckily, abortion does not involve ANY babies.
nice try, but playing with semantics isn't gonna save you from going to hell.
preach, brother! preach!


What the fuck! Roeder is a fucking monster who should never be set free to murder more doctors. I hope someone appeals this bullshit and keeps him locked up for a long time.
Especially since he keeps saying he has "no regrets." How does a murderer who openly says he has no regrets not get life in prison?
He got life. 25 years is just when he can start getting denied parole.
Or when he can be paroled so he can go out and murder another doctor.  Given the way Trump will be packing judges and so forth I wouldn't count on him being denied parole.
Trump will be long gone by the time this asshole comes up for parole. Probably some of his judges will too. That's assuming he even lives long enough—one of the reasons the prosecutors didn't push to keep the 50 year sentence is because they don't really expect him to survive another 19 years in prison.
This this this
He's still going to be locked up for another 19 years minimum. Roeder isn't going to live that long. No reason to drag witnesses and family through another hearing.
Why is AP even giving this arsehole a voice in the media and further opportunity to incite other anti-choice terrorists?
I am pro-life and I dont understand his logic. "Killing babies is wrong." kills people All lives should matter, this man must have some mental problems.
I assume the logic is if he kills this one person then he will save many. Like you said, probably mental issues involved.
I have a project for my gender studies class and I have tried googling the recent laws in Arizona and Oklahoma, but there is so much information being presented and I really need to know what are the recent laws (2016-2015) that were passed to limit reproduction rights of women.I would appreciate any guidance that more knowledge people in this subreddit can give me to point me in the right direction.
Trying googling "TRAP laws [state]"  I poked around a little and found this table: https://www.guttmacher.org/state-policy/explore/targeted-regulation-abortion-providers
Thanks this is pretty useful. Appreciate it
Guttmacher is a great place to start in general.

Heck yes. This is a great win for everyone. I especially take note of the bolded part. That should apply to abortion rulings in general. She can always look for a different sperm donor if she wants more children without a guy present, or even perhaps find a father for them who wants to be there for the kids... win for the kids either way. There is no reason to force this guy to be involved with more kids when he doesn't even want to be involved with her!
I think that the issue for her (at least in part) is that she is unlikely to be able to have more biological children without these embryos. Based on the timeline given, she was married in her "mid-thirties" in 2005 so she was probably in her late thirties when the twins were born, and now she's in her mid-forties.  The likelihood that she will produce eggs that can be fertilized has gone down dramatically in the intervening 7 years. Hard to have a biological clock that ticks so fast, huh? Still, can you imagine if she were allowed to move forward with this?  What a mess.  Absolutely the right call.
Keyword: more biological children. I still can't sympathize with her, at all. She already has 2 kids. How selfish do you have to be to want more kids when you're already getting up in age, you're only going to get more tired as time goes on, the generational gap is going to be huge, you can't expect to be around for that much of your child's life... etc.
I can sympathize with her, I just don't think she's right. I would sympathize with her more if she had no biological children, but would still want the outcome to be the same.
So glad it was the guy who didn't want to have children, and not the woman.  The importance of choice is so much easier to see when it is not a woman denying her "proper role" as a mother. As a woman who has struggled with infertility, I am sad for her.  But it was definitely the right call.
As a prolifer I think it is important to note that the courts ruling does not deny that a frozen embryo is in fact a living, human organism. Only that the current law does not protect them in the same way it protects a born child.
The point for pro-choicers always has to do with respecting the rights of the woman.  So long as she has the capacity to make decisions about her body, pro-choicers don't have any reason to split hairs about whether or not a blastocyst is a "living, human, organism."  It is only the pro-lifers who use attempt to use the slippery slope to say that being living and human = child = right to another person's body.
With particular case had nothing to do with respecting bodies though. It had to do with not legally treating the embryos as born children. Or even implanted fetuses.
Of course.  I am saying that it is not (and has never been) a problem for pro-choicers to call blastocysts and embryos human organisms.  The fact that the court does not deny this is not a hit to the pro-choice argument. It's where that argument tends to go right afterward (attempts to first equate fetuses and children as being morally and legally indistinguishable and then to legally grant the fetus the "right to life" via utilization of the mother's body) that is and has always been the issue. This decision fits right with what pro-choicers have tended to espouse.  Blastocysts may be human organisms, but they are not children, and should not be treated as such, either morally or legally.
Really? Because I have met my share who deny this. Glad to see there are some who don't. I agree this is the main area of contention. I don't agree here. There are many definitions of this word. One is actually human fetus, unborn or young person. A blastocysts fits all said definitions.
The fact that development is continuous does not make a blastocyst a child.  Not in definition, not legally, and not morally.  That is what this case specifies.
You left out "via utilization of the mother's body" when you quoted the text. Huh. Interesting.
Huh? Really? Where?
The second block of text you quoted
This is the only block of text I quoted. And I didn't leave anything out as far as I can see.
Huh? No the second block of text in the comment I responded to. I would copy and paste but my phone is being annoying.
tamist is referring to your response to me, where you quoted me up until where I said "via utilization of the mother's body" which you left out.  This erases the key idea I was articulating that the "right to life" you may hope to give to a fetus is not something that the fetus is capable of on its own, but only by relying on someone else's body. This is important because pro-lifers are often prone to erase/minimize women's contribution to pregnancy as if it doesn't matter or is beside the point.  Many pro-choicers (myself included) find that offensive.

In this situation only, would the ex husband have to pay child support and provide for the child if he didn't want them and they were implanted into his ex's uterus after they had separated? They way I see it is, if she were to sign a contract with her ex saying she was completely responsible for those children financially and everything else, then I could agree with her situation. I doubt that's what she wanted, I' sure she wanted his financial support. I'm not for that, they are separated and he no longer wants children with her, he should have that right.
Good question. I think by law he might. It's an interesting point. I wonder if she would.

This article is well worth reading.  It describes a misoprostol only abortion performed with tablets purchased in Mexico, however the successful outcome was made to seem routine. The problem with misoprostol abortions is that at best, they are only about 80% successful and the complication rate is high. Misoprostol causes uterine contractions which will possibly squeeze the pregnancy out of the uterus.
"With only 0.5% of women being referred to adoption agencies or other family support centers, what is arguably the most important health aspect of a woman: mental health — is being ignored."This is an interesting read, let me know your thoughts! http://faithforamerica.org/does-planned-parenthood-care-about-women/
Most women facing unwanted pregnancy don't need mental health support; they need an abortion.
Thank you. We know what we want people.
If you're curious as to Planned Parenthood's approach to women's mental health, you would need to look at referrals to mental health treatment, not referrals to adoption agencies. Adoption is much more emotionally and mentally taxing for the woman than abortion in most cases. http://www.originscanada.org/adoption-trauma-2/trauma_to_surrendering_mothers/adoption-trauma-the-damage-to-relinquishing-mothers/ If you are worried about the racial and class dynamics of voluntary abortions, there is much we could do to help - specifically providing additional financial support to poor women who chose to bear their children.
If you're looking for a debate about the quality of the article and whether its contents are factual or misinterpreted, I'd suggest crossposting to TwoXChromosomes. So far and briefly put, it looks like stats are cherrypicked to suit the author's intent for the article; stuff like the KKK is mentioned because the author feels it should still matter and should still correlate for the reason for PP's locations, ignoring all the recent closures across the country that probably fudged that statistic, ignoring the fact that the communities most reliant on PP are also some of the poorest. I see facts established as causations where they are only correlated. The basis of the article (that mental health is ignored) is flawed; mental health requires significantly different services than physical health, and PP's mandate is not to provide psychological support although they can provide referrals. By the article's logic, we should also condemn hospitals because physicians are not therapists, and many medical treatments can take a heavy toll on people (women), not just abortions. Among other issues, the idea that 3k abortions per day are funded with taxpayer money is way overblown, and considering that everyone has issues with how taxpayer money is used, the idea that abortion deserves its status as "special snowflake" in this regard is one maintained probably by those who need to demonize it. Xposting will get more eyes on this.
"http://faithforamerica...." Conservative religions had it in for Planned Parenthood from the day it first opened its doors 100 years ago, mostly because the all-male hierarchy didn't like the idea of women being able to prevent pregnancy.  Birth control is still seen by many as a "sin against God" or something equally ridiculous. If a woman really wants an abortion, she's not interested in "being referred to an adoption agency" or anything else.  She wants the abortion, the sooner, the better.   PP was there for me a few decades ago when I was just a kid starting a new job in a big city.  Thanks to them, I got birth control at a very low cost, and by doing so, avoided the burden of unwanted pregnancy entirely, which is why I went there in the first place.
Short answer: Yes, they do, that's why they exist.
They sure did care about me when I was a patient! I'm afraid you're going to have to bring out bigger guns if you want to actually convince anyone here.
Planned Parenthood exists because there is demand for their services from women.
